president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this scandal gives me a real sense of déjà vu, because the crisis is indeed almost identical to that of belgium 12 years ago. too many incidents over the last ten years have shown that there are quite a few actors in the oils and fats sector in the animal feed sector who are motivated by unscrupulous greed and criminally prepared to commit fraud, fraud to the detriment of farmers' incomes, fraud to the detriment of consumers' health. that is unacceptable. that is why we need a kind of stress test for existing legislation. i hope the agriculture council will take note of this. but there is also a need for control and supervision. there's a lot of self-censorship in the industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it has to be done in a good ratio. secondly, i also think that there should be more control by the food & veterinary office in ireland. we need more control over control. i read that in the last ten years, there have only been three missions by the fvo. that's not enough. we need to raise that number. commissioner, would you instruct the fvo to increase the number of missions dealing with dioxin problems?
madam president, commissioner, there is a certain amount of confusion in relation to these recurrent crises, including one in belgium in 1999, which was very similar to the current crisis and was a large-scale crisis. clearly, we have the strictest standards in the world. i don't think it's appropriate to burden them. we just need to make them work better. and probably one of the first things to be done is to tighten up the penalties for these criminals, because this is obviously not the clumsiness of a street lamp-maker, but rather organized crime by white collar criminals who want to maximize their profits. secondly, it seems that another priority could be to strengthen and better target controls according to risks. thirdly, as catherine stihler has said, the rapid exchange system, rapex, which is normally designed to operate so that all member states are alerted to a potential risk, has probably shown some weaknesses in this respect. i would have liked your opinion on this, commissioner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the hungarian government decided at the end of 2010 to stop subsidising the early childhood institute set up by emmi pikler in budapest. the hungarian scientist founded the centre to develop scientifically based teaching methods for young children. the effectiveness of these methods for the psychomotor development of children has been internationally recognized. early childhood institutions modelled on this model have proliferated in europe, even in my own belgian town. it is a pity that at the end of the european year for combating poverty, especially child poverty, such a signal should be given by hungary. this decision is surprising, given the international reputation of the pikler institute and the fact that the hungarian administrative authorities have announced their intention to continue with the functions of the institute. i therefore wonder, without any prejudice, what the motives of the hungarian government were for this decision.
president of the council. - mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, although this may seem a little incongruous in this plenary chamber of the european parliament, i would nevertheless like to begin my speech by quoting a great american thinker, ralph waldo emerson, who said, and i quote him: don't go where the path may lead. go instead where there is no path and leave a trail. that is to say: don't go where the path can lead, go where there is no path and leave a trail. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, that is what we have been doing with all of you over the last six months. belgium, my country, was to assume the rotating presidency of the european union after the treaty of lisbon finally came into force. it is true that we were not embarking on a completely unfamiliar terrain, but it was still necessary to set the stage for the new functioning of the union under the new treaty, with the new institutions with which the european union had endowed itself. so, in keeping with belgian tradition, in keeping with the tradition of my country, we have done everything to enable the institutions to function optimally and to set the right precedents. ladies and gentlemen, i think i can tell you that the european union, as it was structured with the treaty of lisbon, is functioning today and is functioning well. the european union has thus acquired a new instrument for supervising the financial sector, which should hopefully prevent a recurrence of crises such as the one we are still struggling to overcome. economic governance has improved. the agreement on the 2011 budget was reached and, above all, in total, during the six months, almost 40 legislative agreements were concluded between parliament and the council. ladies and gentlemen, our determination to respect both the letter and the spirit of the lisbon treaty was a choice for the future of the union, an investment in ever closer european cooperation. to do this, we have followed two main guidelines during this presidency. first, we did not want to make a name for ourselves. we have instead included our programme, the belgian programme with its five priorities, in the european agenda, in the commission's programme, in the impulses given by the heads of state and government at the level of the european council, in the programme of the trio with the spanish and hungarian colleagues. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the fact that we did not want to impose a belgian agenda, we also chose what i would call, an inclusive presidency. we have tried to work as closely as possible with the european institutions, in the spirit and the letter of the lisbon treaty, in a role that is no longer that of facilitator. samenwerking met alle partijen, of course with your parliament, with the commission, but also with the new permanent president of the council, with the high representative and of course also with the member states, but i think you can say that we have paid particular attention to good cooperation in an open spirit with the parliament which has strengthened its powers to a considerable extent under the new rules. today, of course, there is some modesty, but i can still say that we are together with you and have ensured that this method has worked. in fact, colleagues, more than ever, the union today is a game of institutions in the member states. i think this method has worked and can work, because the court was in is op resulted in not op profiling. that applies to our presidency, but it also applies to the european parliament, even if you are the master of your own judgement. i would like to thank the belgian government, the belgian government and the belgian government for their cooperation. i can tell you that most of the agreements we reached were ultimately approved by a very large majority. this is a sign of the quality of our debates and - as european citizens need to be reassured - of the priority which we give to what is good for europe over national interests. but, ladies and gentlemen, the six months are over. we cannot, of course, stand still in the past. the european union, our society, is facing particularly great challenges. i want to be in this short, red carpet. the first is obviously the continuity of what has been happening over the past six months, namely economic management. we have taken the necessary measures to deal with the crisis in the eurozone. but the symptoms of which there has been no talk are not enough. the threats to the stability of a number of euro countries have shown that monetary union cannot in fact take place without more economic union, without more economic convergence. we must therefore consider more closely the economic, fiscal, economic and social policies of the member states. economic governance also requires a strict monitoring of the budgetary and structural policies of the union's countries. we must have the european semester with that eye on us. the return to budgetary discipline may not be a free-riding objective, but must be controllable and thus be enforceable at european level. the problem is not of course discipline in itself, but sound public finances are an absolute necessity to be linked again with a sustainable growth, a credible growth, which creates jobs for our citizens. the jobs are obviously necessary for the maintenance of our very specific european social model which is accompanied by political and economic freedom, social solidarity and ecological responsibility. the union must use the new instruments efficiently which it introduces for the control of the financial market. these instruments should be ready for use by the end of the year. this is an absolute must, a new entgleisungen der märkte vorzubeugen. the commission's proposal for a directive on the coordination of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and amending directive 76/635/eec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and amending directive 76/635/eec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and amending directive 76/635/eec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and amending directive 76/635/eec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and amending directive 76/635/eec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and amending directive 76/635/eec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and amending directive 76/635/eec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the supervision of credit institutions. it is also natural to expect that closer monitoring of member states' national policy decisions will not take place without discussion and debate. but this should not frighten us, because this is part of the nature of european integration. the second area in which we must do this in which we must keep up the momentum is that of the union's role in the world. we have made progress in that field. thanks to our concerted preparation and unified representation, we have indeed increased our weight in the g20. in recent months, the union has begun to build up its own diplomatic representation all over the world. these moves are good but they have to be consolidated. the european union, it is true, speaks with one voice on most problems in the world, but words are not enough. the union must indeed develop more clout, it must be able to act in a decisive manner and to become a real pole of influence and power in this multipolar world. thirdly, we have to address the financial perspective of the union. it is true that this is not a time when governments can contemplate substantial increases in their contributions to the union budget, but neither can we avoid a debate on the longterm financial perspective. promises have been made to this parliament that there will be consultation on the philosophy of the union's future financing and on ways and means. the union cannot live hand-to-mouth: it has to have this long-term perspective. last but not least, i want to say that we will be able to deliver on these challenges only if, more than ever, we believe in ourselves. i would like to quote the french thinker and writer andré frossard on this challenge for the coming years. i will first quote in french, and then translate: "europe rightly seeks a common policy and a common currency, but what it needs above all is a soul". europe quite rightly wants to equip herself with a common policy and currency but, most of all, she needs a soul. we do indeed need a soul, colleagues. we need to have faith in ourselves and in what we've accomplished, and not excuse ourselves for who and what we are. we need to remember that, before being a market, before being a currency, before being a set of institutions, the union our union was a vision, a belief, a dream. it was a dream of peace on this continent, which has been torn by so many wars. i have heard that it has become a little bit passé to speak of peace to generations in europe who have never known war. i can only say: look around you. watch all the refugees, for example, who come to us fleeing war, fleeing armed conflict, fleeing tyranny. those refugees certainly do not look down on the achievement that it is to have spread peace and security across almost the entire continent. and those refugees - those people - aspire, like so many people elsewhere in the world, to the rights and freedoms that too many of our citizens take so easily for granted. as much as the union is about peace, it is also about freedom, about democracy, about fundamental civil rights and about the rule of law, for our citizens as well as for our immigrants. we believe in the right of every person to human dignity, which means people's right to live on their feet and not on their knees, and the right to think and speak and worship freely. in a much-quoted statement, jean monnet said that nothing gets done without people, but that nothing lasts without institutions. this is just as true today as when he said it but, on the other hand, it is also true that institutions will wither if they are not carried by people with strong convictions. we must remember that we will carry our citizens with us only if we give them a vision: if we give them a dream. in conclusion, i wish hungary all possible success now that it has taken over the baton of the presidency. i am sure it will hold high the torch of the european dream of peace, the european dream of freedom, and the aim of an ever stronger union. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, with efficiency and concentration, with pragmatism and a community spirit, the union has made important progress during the belgian presidency, which deserves both our admiration and our recognition. on behalf of the european commission, i would like to congratulate the prime minister, mr leterme, his entire government team, the administration, all the belgians who have given their best for the success of this presidency. it was a fine and great presidency, at a delicate and demanding time for the future of the european union. rarely have the challenges been so great and the difficulties so crucial to overcome. during these long months of noise and fury - if i may use the expression - the belgian presidency has kept to the european course. its action has always been in keeping with the fundamental meaning of the european union's existence, the solidarity of each individual for the benefit of the general european interest. it has also helped us to set the right course for achieving our main objectives: stability and a return to growth that creates jobs. these were months when europe was still living at the frenzied pace of the crisis and sovereign debt developments. all eyes were on the future of the euro area and our determination to defend it. when we say that we will do everything to defend the stability of the euro area as a whole, it must not be empty words. it is nothing more or less than an expression of our firm political will to defend our common destiny. the future of the euro area and the future of the european union are two sides of the same coin. we want this future to be stable and prosperous for ourselves and for future generations. this has always been and remains the meaning of european construction and the community spirit. the fundamental reforms we have undertaken show that we are fully aware of the challenge facing the future of the european union. we must be able to adapt to the new economic, political and strategic realities of a globalised and changing world. we must succeed in this adaptation by affirming our values, defending our interests and strengthening our credibility and influence on the international stage. the basic decisions we have taken on strengthening european economic governance and tackling our macroeconomic imbalances are at the heart of this progress. they are not an option but an imperative. i hope that during this semester the european parliament and the council will adopt the economic governance proposals. the fundamental question is not who among the various european political actors is winning or losing, but whether each of us is prepared to cooperate in full respect of our mutual prerogatives. because, fundamentally, the question is whether the european union as a whole is winning or losing. the answer is clear: without strengthening our economic governance, we will all lose, all of us! in the euro area and in the european union as a whole. without strengthening our economic governance, we will not win the battle for stability, growth and jobs in europe. without strengthening our economic governance, today's strong links could become tomorrow's weak links. and without strengthening our economic governance, we would lose our credibility on the international stage. if governance and macroeconomic imbalances are also global issues and are discussed in particular at the g20, how can we remain credible and influential with our international partners if we are not even able to solve them at european level? i say this with all due care: this is basically an existential question for the european union. we must act and stand up as a union, or we must suffer and be marginalized. it's really a matter of collective destiny that's at stake. we are, fortunately, on the way to affirmation. i therefore sincerely congratulate the belgian presidency. the agreement reached at the ecofin council on 17 september last allowed the creation of new cycles of economic governance, the so-called european semester. the first step was taken last week with the presentation of the annual growth review prepared by the european commission. we have set out very clearly the three priority areas on which we must focus our efforts for the year ahead: strengthening macroeconomic stability - notably through rigorous fiscal consolidation - structural reform and job-creating growth. we also achieved major successes in the area of financial supervision, notably with the adoption of a new european financial supervisory architecture which came into being on 1 january 2011 with the establishment of the european systemic risk board and three new financial supervisory authorities covering markets, banks and insurance respectively. during these six months we also managed to secure agreements on the management of hedge funds and other alternative investment funds and on rating agencies. for our fellow citizens, austerity measures are not a vague concept but a harsh reality they live with day by day. there are many fears and concerns throughout europe, but there is also a strong expectation throughout europe that the reforms, which have been put off for too long, will finally be completed and that the european dimension will be an integral part of the solution, that europe will defend its projects, its values and its interests in the world. it is therefore important to communicate widely about what the union is doing to restart sustainable growth, generate jobs and build a fairer and more environmentally friendly european society. i would also like to mention a few other successes, particularly in the field of foreign policy and external relations, for example the free trade agreement signed with south korea on 6 october last. it is simply the most ambitious trade agreement ever concluded by the european union. it must remain a reference for our future bilateral trade agreements. cancun, contrary to the pessimists' predictions, has also managed to show some progress on the multilateral path in the fight against climate change. cancun also showed the importance of cooperation between the presidency and the commission in order for europe to speak with a coherent and audible voice on the international stage. i would also like to welcome, in terms of concrete results, the agreement finally reached during the belgian presidency in the field of transport on the eurovignette dossier. it's very important for our citizens. i would like to pay tribute above all to the exemplary way in which the belgian presidency has ensured that the main innovations of the lisbon treaty are respected and implemented. it has brilliantly displayed all its negotiating skills during the difficult debate on the 2011 budget of the european union under the new budgetary rules of the treaty. it was an illustration of the european spirit and its culture of compromise in the best of its ability. the commission is proud of its contribution to this result. tomorrow, in accordance with the commitments i have made to this parliament, i will have a first meeting with the president of the european parliament, mr buzek, and prime minister orban, who holds the rotating presidency of the council, to discuss the next steps in budgetary matters. 2010 was often a difficult year, sometimes extremely demanding, but ultimately very productive. and it was under the presidency of two countries, belgium and spain, that european integration was able to make decisive progress. i see this as a sign of the strength of our union and the proper functioning of our institutions. it is now up to the third country in the trio - hungary - to continue this momentum. the major decisions we have taken in the past year are proof that we all know - parliament, the council, the commission, the member states - what we must do to ensure a stable and prosperous european future. if we know what we have to do, we have to do it now. we have said that we have the will to do so, and we must now show that we are indeed capable of meeting our political commitments, without diluting them, without weakening them and without being deceived by timid signs of recovery. it is a question of consolidating our actions, of showing that they are not merely a reaction to the pressure of the crisis and the markets, but rather a strong reaffirmation of our will to live together in this union for peace, democracy, solidarity and freedom.
the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the future of the european union. you and your colleagues, mr prime minister, have a remarkable record. i would like to emphasize, rather than go into the concrete results, the role model you have set for the presidency of the council. the belgian presidency of the council was the first to be held entirely within the new institutional framework of the lisbon treaty. that in itself was quite a challenge. the treaty is fundamentally changing the institutional framework, as i have already indicated in my report in the previous legislature. the european council and the council have thus clearly become two separate institutions with their own presidencies. the treaty also sets out the role of the council and parliament in exactly the same terms. it is not difficult to get the impression that some members of the council are having some difficulty adjusting to the new relationship between parliament and the council. this was clear during the budget debate. but that cannot be said of the belgian presidency. in consultation with the commission and parliament, investment was mainly directed towards the implementation of the european legislative agenda. the european priorities have always been at the forefront of this. this is partly the reason for the success of the belgian presidency. in the past, too often, the presidencies have tried to impose their national priorities on the european agencies. this is not the case here, and that is why europe has made real progress during this presidency. the difficult budgetary debate during the belgian presidency of the council also helped to set the stage for one of the union's most difficult challenges in the coming years, namely the adoption of the new financial framework. the belgian presidency has received the commitment from previous presidencies that parliament will be involved in the discussion of this multiannual financial framework. the commission, for its part, undertook to include proposals for the union's own resources in its proposal for the multiannual plan, and this is essential. parliament will therefore ensure that the commission and the forthcoming presidencies both honour these commitments.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i propose that we discuss the hungarian presidency tomorrow. we must not mix everything up, otherwise prime minister leterme will have to deal with the new media law in hungary and i do not believe that is his responsibility. the role of parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is to make and control legislation, that is to say, to criticise when it goes wrong, when it is not right, but also to say that it has been right when it has been right. we can say that the belgian presidency was good, very good, and that it was a success thanks to the efforts of many: the belgian government, but also many diplomats, the permanent representative, the deputy permanent representative and all those who have worked for it every day. it is an unexpected success, because, mr prime minister, all of us were constantly faced with the question at home: how can a good presidency be born of a government of current affairs? i would say that for the first time we have had a genuine european government, because it was a government that was concerned only with european affairs, with european files and not distracted by national interests. it is almost an invitation to the other presidencies to get involved in current affairs when they are holding the presidency of the european union, so that they can concentrate on europe for six months instead of just taking europe up on the occasional occasion between two other dossiers. i think that it was a successful presidency mainly for one reason - look at financial supervision, at hedge funds, at the rating agencies - and that is because this presidency understood that the new treaty must work towards more europe and in the council it has voiced the vote for more europe. that cannot be said of all presidencies. jean-luc dehaene is right when he says that there are indeed a number of member states which have still not understood that the rules of the game have changed. the rules of the game have changed and the belgian presidency is the first presidency to understand that the rules of the game have changed. if a european supervisory regime has been established and the european parliament's proposals have finally succeeded, it is because the belgian presidency told its colleagues in the council that this is not possible, that it must be a european solution, unlike the solution worked out by the finance ministers in december 2009. i would say the same about the european patent. a major breakthrough, chairman. i would like to call on you and all the other members of this house to give the green light very quickly to that patent with the european parliament, so that the european patent will finally be a reality after more than 20 years of debate.
for the greens/efa group mr president, that is true others have said it before me clearly, to date, belgian political mechanics are better off than at home. in any case, i am very pleased with this, and i congratulate you, the belgian team has done a good job and that is a very good thing. i think that the resistance you have encountered in the various councils is basically similar to the resistance we encounter in the belgian debate: solidarity, transfers, all these questions of withdrawal or contribution are elements that we are well aware of in belgium and that you have encountered in the council. moreover, mr barroso, since you have expressed your admiration and appreciation, perhaps at some point the european union could give a little help or a little help. since belgium has helped the european union, perhaps the european union could help it to unblock its federal impasse. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. and so, on the budget question, i think we may have been a little too bold in not accepting the proposal for a convention that could have been made on financial resources, but the own resources issue is a central issue in the coming months and i am counting heavily on belgium - which will regain, if i may say so, a freedom of speech, since it no longer represents all the member states but speaks for itself - to move this issue forward. the second important issue is the european constituency. this is something which will also come to the council's table at some point. i know that in belgium there are those who do not want a federal constituency, but i think it is necessary, and perhaps precisely because we do not want one in belgium, belgium will want one at european level. a european constituency would be extremely useful in guaranteeing what you call the 'soul' of the european union, that is to say the fact that european citizens find themselves in it as, quite simply, citizens who can vote for more than national representatives. i think this is a very important case. the third, already mentioned, is the european citizens' initiative. here again, i am counting heavily on belgium to speed up the implementation process. it is an important instrument alongside all the economic governance reforms and i hope that belgium can also help to make it go faster and stronger.
president. - belgium has been a good presidency over the last six months. it would not be said that the present government is outgoing. if i look at the files i can review, the balance is positive. an agreement on the risk capital framework, financial market supervision framework and a budget for 2011. i know belgium and europe quite well. european politics is, so to speak, the continuation of belgian politics with larger aims. it's the search for compromise through conversation, dinner, arrangement and, if necessary, a little support in the name of the outcome. some people say, belgium is europe in miniature. this is precisely the danger for europe, because the belgian system can no longer make compromises for itself. there is no sign of a successor to mr leterme. if belgium is the frontier of europe, then we must ask ourselves: why is the belgian system coming to an end? why is it in a state of decomposition? the reason, i believe, is that belgium has created a transfer economy which is no longer affordable. in the name of solidarity, a flow of money has been created from flanders to wallonia and brussels, but, mr barroso, when solidarity becomes a one-way street, people's minds separate, and we are seeing this in belgium. we are currently in europe planting the mechanisms of a transfer economy. you're working on it. the euro has already been misused before that. now there is the call for eurobonds. mr verhofstadt does that on a daily basis. look also at the euro emergency fund, which is beginning to look like a ponzi scheme. first it was temporary, now it's permanent, and now it's also increasingly in need of money. one of the victims of this is competitiveness, as foreign investment in europe is declining. if you want to see the europe of tomorrow, look at belgium today! then we might see germany as flanders saying: "we don't want to pay for everyone all the time". some of you will laugh here, but that danger is closer than you think. let it be a wake-up call for all of us. mr. leterme, i've always had a great deal of respect for you. you are doing well in what you are doing, but i fear belgium will keep you in your present post for a while.
the president, mr prime minister, you have received a lot of compliments on the belgian presidency, and that is understandable. the european commission and parliament are relieved that the belgian presidency is over and that no major accidents have occurred. it is not obvious that an artificial country without a government, a country which is not even able to govern itself, should hold the presidency of the whole eu. it could of course be said that you and the ministers have had a lot of time to deal with the presidency, since you are a government of current affairs. it could be said that you have experienced diplomats who have done their job well and that the importance of the rotating presidency has decreased since the treaty of lisbon. all of that is true, but i think it was your best decision to follow the advice of the flemish interest and above all to keep a low profile. you could have made the mistakes of the previous belgian presidency in 2001. the failure of the pralin summit in brussels, the accumulation of diplomatic blunders and the so-called laeken declaration which ultimately led to the debacle of the european constitution are all examples. it is not, of course, the case that the belgian presidency has been flawless, first of all there was the incident in which the socialist minister for pensions, mr daerden, led the council of ministers while drunk - the face of commissioner andor speaks volumes; the flemish taxpayers and net payers can no longer laugh at it, knowing that this figure is responsible for their pensions. the european parliament has been very active in the negotiations on the accession of turkey to the european union, and it has been very active in the negotiations on the accession of turkey to the european union.
mr president, i shall now repeat myself. a bit of a boring debate, i must admit, but one we can be proud of, so i would like to join my colleagues in praising the belgian presidency. yves, your team, your ministers, but also your political and diplomatic corps have done a fantastic job. i've seen it firsthand. i have had the pleasure and the satisfaction of sitting in two trilogues on the environment and - no, they should not be given a fat neck, but they do get a little credit this time - here my compliments on the fine presidency. however, i would like to add a big and a small "but" to that praise. my first 'but' relates to social policy, i think there has been progress on a number of social issues. however, we must admit - and i am not writing this on behalf of the belgian presidency, but at the end of the european year of the fight against poverty - that the european interest is not very great. there has been no real progress on legislation, for example on the european minimum income, so there is still a lot of work to be done. my second 'but' has to do with the role played by the belgian presidency in the post-lisbon era. i have received congratulations from verhofstadt and dehaene, two former prime ministers who are very familiar with the institutional system. however, this role also has a downside, in particular the lack of political leadership by the belgian presidency on very crucial issues. we have taken a step back and said that mr van rompuy should withdraw his case. i am thinking of the debate on the economic governance story, i am also thinking of the debate on the debt crisis in the european union. other heads of government - not to mention merkel and sarkozy - have taken on this role. i think that has led to limited results at the last council, in particular in the wake of the debt crisis. in the past, the belgian presidency has taken political leadership and i would like the next government to take on that leadership in the european union.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i have one minute to applaud the belgian presidency. the balance may be positive overall, but i think i can put the same number of feathers on everyone's hat. i think it is fortunate that there was a substantial presence of commissioners potočnik and hedegaard at the major conferences in nagoya on biodiversity and cancun on climate change. it has been said - and this is sometimes meant in a humorous way - that the belgian presidency did well, because they had a lot of time, they could put all their energy into that presidency. mr verhofstadt, for example, said that for the first time there was a full-time european government. i think that's right. but we cannot ignore the fact that behind these teams there were a lot of people, that there was a diplomacy which, with good preparation, with good knowledge, with an incredible negotiating talent, made sure that this was indeed a good presidency. tomorrow, mr. leterme, the golden shoe will be awarded in belgium. if i can give the golden shoe to the belgian presidency, to the best actor in the belgian presidency, it goes without any doubt to belgian diplomacy, to the people who are behind you and who have made sure that you and your team and the regional governments have indeed done a great job.
mr president, mr prime minister, when you presented the programme of the belgian presidency last july, i said to you, in greeting you and in joking, that you might still be here in january to present the balance sheet. i confess that i was hoping to be wrong and without wanting to offend you, mr prime minister, i would have liked - like all belgians - to have before me today the head of government who emerged from the elections on 13 june. but it was you who had to assume the presidency, and i congratulate you and all the ministers of the government present. let us now put aside our domestic political situation and concentrate on the balance sheet of the belgian presidency. i would like to quote a famous american, but he's not a philosopher, he's a tennis player. arthur ashe said, "one of the keys to success is confidence, and one of the keys to confidence is preparation". and it is clear that the belgian presidency has taken this as a model. i have seen a great deal of progress in the areas i am dealing with here alone: the enhanced cooperation on divorce, the european order for the protection of victims of violence, the future enhanced cooperation on patents, the agreement on the directive on late payment, on the labelling of foodstuffs - all these are achievements of which the belgian presidency can be proud. similarly, for the cap after 2013, although there is no agreement yet, the principle of a strong cap with two pillars and the principle of simplification are already established. but what agriculture needs most in the future is regulation that manages to contain market volatility within certain limits. however, there is still no agreement on this and i am concerned about the next presidencies - in particular hungary and poland - which do not seem to be making regulation a priority. apart from the good preparation, the full involvement of the ministers, the efficiency of the belgian diplomats and civil servants, the secret of the presidency - and you have stressed this - has been not to impose its own agenda but to take account of the priority issues currently being discussed at european level and to do everything possible to make progress on them, thanks to the pragmatism and the culture of compromise that characterise us. i hope that future presidencies will learn from this example.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. six months ago, when the questions from colleagues were as numerous as they are now about the belgian presidency, and when the programme was read, many in this house were still full of doubts. today we are all the more delighted to thank you and the permanent representation for the excellent work and preparation. of course, their success was not easy. internal political problems have already been raised and mr verhofstadt also had to say that efficiency is not necessarily achieved in belgium and at european level. perhaps this is the key to success tomorrow, that the politicians who are good here will also find the necessary recognition in belgium. their success was not easy, for the external conditions were not the best. and last but not least - and i can say this on behalf of the epp group in the transport sector - you have not chosen the easiest of subjects either. it was raised and we were more than satisfied that the issue of the eurovignette had been resolved. this is not just a matter of principle, but in my view it is a matter of new sources of finance, of safe, clean but also efficient mobility at european level. the aim here is to see whether we can adapt this mobility issue more closely at european level tomorrow. as a border resident, i am naturally also pleased about the enforcement of road safety regulations. it is unacceptable for us and for every border area that serious offences are punished or not punished depending on the number plate. you have taken this sensitive subject and made a first step. and last but not least, with passenger rights in bus transport, europe has now assigned passenger rights to all citizens in the various modes of transport. the volcano crisis has shown us how important it is for businesses, but also for passengers, to create such a european foundation. i hope we can continue to work together in this way. in conclusion, i wish you and belgium only one thing: that we may at last find the skill you have shown at european level at belgian level, for the good reason that those who have to make demands as you have done must also show solutions.
president, mr prime minister, secretary of state, both you and the diplomats have shown that we can succeed even in very difficult economic conditions and that we can use those conditions to make europe stronger. that's very important. of course, something like this requires compromises, difficult compromises. there's always criticism, but i think in this iron law more than ever, the perfect is the enemy of the good. such a compromise is always justifiable if progress is made and if it is in the interests of the prosperity and well-being of our citizens. mr. prime minister, i only have one minute. i refer to the next belgian presidency. that's probably going to be in the year 2025 or so. i am sure that the commission will be able to give you an answer to your question, and i hope that you will be able to give me an answer to my question. i wish you every success here and in brussels.
mr president, i would like to join the almost unanimous messages this morning. mr prime minister, the belgian presidency has been a good presidency because it has advanced the european project, and this in a difficult national context which has not prevented it from meeting the challenges facing europe. i am thinking of the adoption of the 2011 budget, which in some respects leaves us bitter, but you have avoided a damaging institutional confrontation. in social matters, the belgian presidency has been confronted from the outset with the frivolity of some in the council - i am thinking in particular of the idea of a framework directive on the minimum income. despite this, real progress can be credited to belgium thanks to the combativeness of your ministers, our ministers: the report of the epsco council before each european council to provide the necessary counterweight to the ecofin council; the conclusions on social services of general interest; pensions, including the conference on pensions held in liège, which highlighted the need to deal jointly with the questions of adequacy and sustainability of pensions - i had the task of emphasizing this -; the epsco declaration on the year of the fight against poverty. once again, congratulations and we hope that these advances will be continued with the following presidencies.
in writing. the aim of this agreement is to replace certain provisions of the 47 existing bilateral air services agreements between the member states and the west african economic and monetary union. it is appropriate to harmonize the various provisions of existing agreements by means of a community agreement of a horizontal type. it will restore legal certainty to bilateral air services agreements concluded between the member states of the waemu and the european union and will also avoid harming member states which have not signed a bilateral agreement with one of the waemu states. it will avoid discrimination between carriers in the designation or taxation of aviation fuel. the provisions of bilateral agreements which are anti-competitive shall be brought into line with european competition law. the agreement will strengthen euro-african air transport relations and promote cooperation between the european union and the union of african states on aviation, including safety and security.
in writing. the recent humanitarian disasters in haiti and pakistan have once again demonstrated the need to strengthen the eu's disaster response capacity in terms of efficiency, coordination and visibility. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the creation of a european rapid reaction capability (a european civil protection force) - an idea which was launched by commissioner michel barnier at the time of the asian tsunami and since then repeatedly taken up by the european parliament. this capacity should be an optimisation of the available tools, which would gain in efficiency and visibility, with the aim of achieving an immediate mobilisation of all the necessary means, through enhanced cooperation.
in writing. the humanitarian environment is increasingly complex and unwieldy: humanitarian law is often violated, confused roles mean that humanitarian workers are increasingly targeted, and natural disasters are increasing in number and intensity. in 2010, we witnessed the three biggest humanitarian disasters in recent years: the earthquake in haiti, the drought in the sahel and the floods in pakistan. but as commissioner kristalina georgieva said, 'the quality of our humanitarian aid is of the utmost importance'. it "saves some 140 million lives every year". in view of these considerations, i agree with the rapporteur when she advocates a substantial increase in the funding of humanitarian aid and when she states that the humanitarian consensus is too little known. the need to continue to raise awareness and promote humanitarian principles and international law. as i have already said, we must advocate the creation of a european rapid reaction capability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. worldwide, 900 million people suffer from chronic hunger as a result of extreme poverty. despite apparently sufficient food supplies, a significant proportion of the world's population cannot afford the basic necessities of life. the availability of food is a vital issue that must be addressed! the objective of food security cannot be achieved without addressing two of the most important issues facing us today: the volatility of markets and prices and the decline in food stocks. in this context, it is necessary to advocate a revision of the current legislation on financial instruments, which should increase the transparency of trade and provide for minimum thresholds for operators admitted to intervene in these markets. moreover, the world's food supply of basic necessities is much more limited than it has ever been, with the world's food reserves at an all-time low! finally, the cap must provide an unequivocal response to food security and other challenges, including climate change and the economic crisis in the eu.
in writing. - overall, this report is a fairly good contribution to the debate on the role of agriculture in the food supply. the ep rightly points out the problems faced by farmers in times of extreme market and price volatility and draws attention to the difficulties faced by farmers in this respect. the commission must come up with lasting and strong measures to address the volatility in agricultural markets. this is crucial for the maintenance of union production. the enormous price increases on the financial markets for agricultural commodities are largely the result of speculation. speculative behavior accounts for almost 50% of recent price increases. the ep welcomes the conclusions of the un special rapporteur on the right to food on the nefarious role of large institutional investors such as hedge funds, pension funds and investment banks in influencing commodity price indices through their movements in derivatives markets. the ep is making a good analysis, but it is going completely off the rails by making irrelevant comments in the report on the role of gmos in agricultural policy. this debate is being held elsewhere and does not belong here. that is why i voted against the report in the end.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i know that you conveyed your concerns over the khodorkovsky case in a private conversation with president medvedev. if the khodorkovsky case was a test case for the rule of law in russia, then we naturally have to say that the case failed. on top of this, boris nemtsov was arrested on 31 december. article 31 of the russian constitution, however, guarantees the freedom of assembly. as you know, the opposition organises a protest meeting every 31st of the month. as far as i can see, there are seven months in 2011 which have 31 days in them. that means there is a chance, if this continues, that events similar to the arrest of mr nemtsov could happen in 2011. so what joint action can the eu institutions take on this matter? russia is a member of the council of europe, the oecd, the g8 and potentially a member of the wto. i think urgent action from the european institutions is needed.
on behalf of the alde group. – this is not a question but simply a comment. i think that this house also has to deal with this problem as urgently as possible. the situation cannot continue as it is now in the russian federation. i do not think that, just because we have many important commercial links, we have to stay silent on this issue – on the contrary.
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, i would like to thank and congratulate our rapporteur, mrs grossetête, who has so brilliantly taken up the testimony given by our former colleague mr john bowis. in fact, with all the congratulations, it's kind of john bowis' birthday today! i would like to - and this is important - underline the important role played by the belgian presidency, which made the necessary efforts to reach this difficult compromise with parliament but above all with certain member states whose position was - how to say - refractory in certain cases. this directive on crossborder healthcare is essential, even though it concerns only one per cent of national health budgets, because, beyond the figures, it is the strength of the symbol that is to be emphasized, namely the legitimate right of every european citizen to seek treatment abroad and to be reimbursed for care received with full information. it was also important to set clear safeguards to avoid any form of medical tourism but also to introduce sufficient flexibility in this text to promote diagnosis and treatment on both sides of a border. i am thinking in particular of certain diseases such as rare diseases. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that this is an essential first step, but that we must go further and fight even harder to advance the europe of health that we all cherish.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the fight against alzheimer's disease has become a european priority in recent years and it was time. i would add that i welcome all the initiatives that have just been announced by commissioner dalli. this form of brain ageing is exploding in europe and worldwide, with more than seven million people affected and ten million if we want to consider other types of neurodegenerative diseases. the current eu funding of 34 research projects can and should be welcomed, but much, much better work is needed, particularly in terms of coordinating alzheimer's research in the eighth research framework programme, starting in 2014. this is clearly stated in paragraph 21 of our resolution. it is also essential to favour a multidisciplinary approach that includes diagnosis, prevention, treatment and support for patients and their families; this is the subject of points 2 and 20, which are very important. in fact, a recent study published in france reveals the considerable socioeconomic costs of this disease: more than a thousand euros a month for medical care and monitoring alone, not counting the huge dedication of relatives, families who spend more than six hours a day on waking up and supervising the patient. helping these patients is also about making the right diagnosis. the scientific world is telling us that we need to change the international criteria because, by applying the often outdated criteria to the letter, too many patients with other forms of dementia are included. at european level - and i come now to paragraph 64 of our resolution - it is essential that our parliament finally responds to the call of researchers. we need more volunteers in clinical trials if we hope to find a cure one day - and it's a must. the forthcoming revision of the clinical trials directive is therefore a great opportunity to give concrete answers and to give hope to families.
president, as vice-president of the alzheimer alliance in the european parliament, i warmly welcome the report by mrs matias. it contains the most important issues to be addressed as a matter of priority. i would like to make two points in this short time. firstly, the importance of prevention and early diagnosis. awareness campaigns on early symptoms are essential to enable patients and their carers to access treatment and support that is currently available as soon as possible. but the importance of joint programming of research resources cannot be overstated. many colleagues have already said: 85% of public investment in research today is done without any european coordination and this inevitably leads to fragmentation and duplication of work. so a joint strategic research agenda can make the allocation of resources more efficient and can provide a better understanding of the causes, treatment options and social impact of diseases such as alzheimer's.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all let me say very clearly to mr orbán that my group supports the priorities of the hungarian presidency. mr prime minister, like you, we also believe in a strong euro, so we are fully backing you in your priorities for this presidency. i think that in the six months of this presidency you have one top priority and that is to establish, as fast as possible real economic governance inside the european union and inside the euro zone. because let us be clear: 2010 was not a good example for the euro and for the european union. we were always running behind the facts, after the events. what we need now, as fast as possible, under your leadership and the leadership of the president of the commission, is a global package on economic governance, a real economic and fiscal union, because it is nonsense to have a monetary union and not have an economic and fiscal union at the same time. i am not asking you to invent new ideas but to take last week’s package presented by the president of the commission and commissioner olli rehn and to put this package with its four cornerstones on the table of the council and the table of your colleagues. mr orbán and mr barroso, only one element, one cornerstone is missing in this package. nowhere in the world is there a currency without one bond market behind it. in europe we still have 27 bond markets, 27 speculations and 27 spreads. in the euro zone we still have 17 bond markets, 17 spreads and 17 speculations. what the markets are doing at present is not speculating against the euro but speculating on the differences inside the euro. the only way to tackle that is to have a genuine bond market in europe of eur 4000 billion or 5000 billion which can be compared to what exists in other parts of the world, with special treatment for the triple-a countries. (applause)finally, mr orbán i want to say something about the elephant in the room. the elephant in this beautiful room is naturally the media law in hungary. i will not talk about the law itself; i will rather use the example of one of my favourite writers, a great hungarian writer, sándor márai. with the language policy of the former slovak government and the current media law in hungary, i doubt that márai would ever have existed. why? well márai lived in kassa, which today we know as košice. he wrote in hungarian which, as you know, was until recently a problem in slovakia. also importantly he was a journalist, which is becoming a problem for tomorrow because, with the new legislation, which obliges the media to provide proper information and adequate information about public life, i think márai and his books would never existed. the confessions of a citizen, his masterpiece, is quite improper and in many respects totally inadequate, but it is a masterpiece of literature. in my opinion, the aim of media governance is not to guarantee proper and adequate information. no, the aim of media governance is to uphold pluralism and to guarantee that any initiative in media can be developed. (applause)i hope that you will use your majority, your two-thirds majority, which is something that all politicians dream about… (interjection from mr cohn-bendit: ‘no! no!’) not you – you are an exception. i hope that you will use your two-thirds majority to guarantee that pluralism, and that you will change the law as fast as possible.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that the hungarian prime minister has clearly stated here that he is prepared to amend the new media law if the eu so requests. the european commission must now be able to do its work with complete independence. it's the only way to get out of the party politics. media pluralism and freedom of the press are fundamental values in europe. all eu member states, not just hungary, have formally committed themselves to respecting them. this is written in the eu treaty and there are formal agreements on this within the council of europe. we trust that the hungarian government will also leave no doubt about this.
in writing. the issue of crossborder healthcare had been under negotiation for a long time but had raised a shield when, in a previous version, the risk of creating a two-speed medicine appeared, promoting mainly the medical tourism of the most affluent patients and harming member states which could not have planned their care provision according to a demand conditioned by the quality offered ... the text we voted on wednesday is more consensual. it allows european patients to benefit from care that is not available in their country or is only available for very long periods of time. the reimbursement of such care received in another member state is made in the country where the patient is registered but is capped at what would have been paid for similar care... some specialised care or treatment requiring overnight hospitalization will require prior authorisation. but any refusal will have to be justified. this is another step towards a more concrete europe of health. we can only be happy about that.
in writing. - i welcome the directive on patients' rights in crossborder healthcare. the provision of patient-oriented healthcare as quickly as possible, which can also be used in other member states, is an essential prerequisite for the cohesion of the eu area. in particular, in border regions like the one i come from, cross-border healthcare is a daily reality. in this context, i am very pleased about the facilitation of access to reliable and high-quality cross-border healthcare and reimbursement. i am particularly in favour of the added value for patients on waiting lists, because this new regulation gives them the opportunity to have treatment in another member state in good time, whereas they would only be entitled to this treatment with a considerable delay in their own member state. while the establishment of the grounds for refusal for prior authorisation is also very useful and provides more clarity, some border healthcare problems remain unresolved, especially for long-term border crossers who, after their active life, have to renounce all or part of the services important to them in the country of work.
in writing. - the crossborder healthcare directive - which i support - gives clear rights to patients to receive medical care abroad and to be reimbursed according to domestic rates. this will increase legal certainty for patients in border regions, people residing in another country, patients with rare diseases and patients facing long waiting times. however, in order to safeguard the quality of care and fair access to it, member states may require patients to obtain prior consent to treatment. this is required when hospitalization is involved or when treatment is very expensive or risky. the reimbursement may also be refused under very strict conditions (for example, if treatment is also possible in one's own country). and member states can intervene if there is evidence of overconsumption. the directive thus maintains the balance between the right of the patient to good health care and the right of the member states to finance their own social security and to organise their own health care. i also hope that the desire of patients to seek treatment elsewhere will not put undue pressure on the high-quality services that the vast majority of patients choose in their own country.
in writing. − under flegt, tropical hardwood exporting countries have started to draw up voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) with the eu to ensure the traceability and legality of the wood. these agreements also provide for independent verification procedures. they thus provide a basis for forest management and logging. i can only applaud the commission for concluding agreements with cameroon and congo-brazzaville. they provide a good basis for future fpas, such as those with some asian countries and the democratic republic of congo. it is also important for the greens that the commission commits itself to reporting within six months of the start of the voluntary partnership agreement on the measures taken to enable and maintain a permanent dialogue between the stakeholders and civil society, including local and indigenous peoples. over-exploitation of forests threatens not only the local population but also the fauna and flora, and biodiversity. these agreements reduce the massive deforestation that leads to greater global warming.
in writing. - i have approved this owninitiative report on alzheimer's with full conviction. it gives a very good overview of the measures to be taken in this field. the text adopted by the committee on health was not amended, which indicates that these recommendations are widely supported. i would also ask that attention be paid to the growing practice of dementia-friendly municipalities in countries such as germany, belgium or scotland. the effect of imaging on the course of the disease should also be considered. a negative image too often affects the disease in a negative way. this was the result of a conference held by the belgian presidency at the end of last year. these comments must also be incorporated into the policy!
mr president, madam high representative, the barbaric attack in alexandria on 31 december is the latest in a long series of deadly attacks on christians in many parts of the world, most recently in iran, iraq, pakistan, nigeria and egypt. the persecution - dare we say it - which is not mentioned in the title of our resolution - is particularly the persecution of christians in the east. the evil is deep, and acts of christianophobia are a reality. that is why the remedy which the european union must provide, which we must provide, must be commensurate with the expectations of these christian minorities, twelve million people to be protected and who must have a life choice other than suitcase or coffin. it is not a question here, and it has been said and repeated, of stigmatising one religion in relation to another but of recalling the urgent need to fight against these islamic fundamentalists who kill freedom and kill men. we expect you, lady ashton, to bring to the foreign ministers' meeting at the end of this month a coordinated response to the violence against the christians of the east, a response and a strategy. it seems to me therefore important to press through, for example, the association agreements we have with a number of these countries, to ask their respective governments to investigate and bring those responsible and guilty before their judicial authorities. that is the second point of our resolution. freedom of worship must be a reality everywhere in the world, just as it is up to each individual to believe or not to believe, for if this freedom, which is permitted by the separation of religion and state, is not allowed, all the others are in danger.
rapporteur. − mr president, these days competition is often regarded as a concept that makes life difficult. some people prefer cosy arrangements and the hot tub of backstage agreements as protection against the harsh world of global competition. but, commissioner, competition is not the spoiler but the lifesaver of the european economy. europe is at a crossroads. will it create a transfer economy, with low growth and high structural unemployment, or will it have a wealth-creating economy that stands the test of global competition? a football team, commissioner, that is not competitive loses game after game. an economy that is not competitive loses investment, jobs and finally the basis of its social arrangements. since european competition policy is the exclusive competence of the european commission, you, commissioner – or rather commissioner almunia, for whom you are standing in – play a decisive role. this week the united nations published figures on foreign direct investment in 2010. the united states attracted 43% more foreign investment than in 2009. foreign direct investment in latin america rose by 21% and in asia by 10%. in the european union it dropped by 20% – and why is that? the money goes to where the action is. apparently investors regard europe as the continent of inaction, only generating poor growth figures. it demonstrates the european union facing a competitiveness deficit. commissioner, you have to assure a level playing field for entrepreneurial activity in europe to make our continent fit for global competition. we all know china. i would like to draw your attention to several aspects of competition policy in 2009, of which many features are visible today. the main issue now is the consequences of massive state aid to the financial sector: states allocated taxpayers’ money to prevent the collapse of the financial sector. had we allowed a meltdown of the financial sector, the savings and pensions of millions of european citizens would have been buried too. but it goes without saying that state aid on this scale created distortions of competition. that is why it has to end as soon as possible and the money has to be paid back to taxpayers in europe. commissioner, my first question therefore is: how temporary is the temporary framework, and how will it be phased out? i hope you will clarify this issue on behalf of commissioner almunia. another aspect is liquidity support of the european central bank to certain banks in order to keep them alive. i admit there is an interface between monetary and competition policy – but did its impact distort competition? that is my question. another issue is the set of rules for divestment. work criteria for downsizing companies are sufficiently clear and fair. now we should look at the future: what is going to happen, commissioner? member states have gone very far to recapitalise the financial sector by partly and/or entirely nationalising institutions with taxpayers’ money. this will have to be unravelled. but once member states start withdrawing from financial institutions to restore their private status, there is a danger that they will leave behind a dowry, a sort of wedding gift. dowries may be used to prop up the position of financial institutions in the private market. this is a feature we have often seen in the process of privatisation. i remember it too well in the postal sector. governments propped up their postal provider just before entering the private market. in a letter i reminded commissioner almunia of the long-lasting investigation into the german postal provider. the commission is currently opening investigations into the british, french and belgian postal providers as well, since these postal markets will be liberalised this year. so, commissioner, i ask you to be attentive to the phenomenon of dowry in the financial sector. preventing a problem is better than going the long way of legal redress. i thank you, commissioner – and also commissioner almunia – for your cooperation, and i also thank the service of dg competition which, as i know, is one of the best in the commission.
for the greens/efa group mr president, first of all i would like to thank commissioner almunia, who is not here today, but who, despite the fact that this is not a competence of the european parliament, spends a significant amount of time with us in the economic and monetary affairs committee and therefore devotes and invests time in dialogue with parliament on these matters. i would also like to thank the rapporteur. we often do this in a formal way, but, derk jan, our parties often disagree on many things, but i must say that in drawing up this report there was no taboo in the discussion. all the points were really discussed in a very constructive spirit, and that must be emphasized. i would now like to come to three points on which i think the commission must make progress. one of them, it has been pointed out, is the importance of the financial sector, too important in fact, in the economy. we know that the financial crisis has had the consequence that the financial groups that have emerged from it have emerged larger and stronger. so there is really a problem of market distortion in this area, and it is not just the special aid schemes set up by the states to help their financial sector, but also, as we emphasize in the report, the various forms of direct aid from the european central bank which are - i am sorry to say - very opaque. so we ask the commission to look at how the central bank has helped the banks, because it is clear that the banks that went to the central bank for help have had some form of help that those that were better managed did not have to ask for. the banks that were properly managed have therefore, in some way, been victims of a market distortion. the second sector is raw materials, and in particular food raw materials. we know that the large agri-food groups and the large distribution groups enjoy a market position which actually allows them to exaggerate their influence on price formation. a market survey on this is absolutely important. another point, and not the least, is tax competition. you know that most member states, including my own but many others, practice forms of tax competition which are really harmful to the general european interest. these are forms of competition which must be stopped. i know that there is a renewed interest in this in the commission, but i strongly encourage commissioner almunia and commissioner šemeta to tackle this problem. on the last point, we are pleased to note that the commissioner has already imposed fines in various sectors since the beginning of his mandate, notably in the air freight sector. we also welcome the opening of the google investigation which i believe partly answers what sophie in 't veld was saying a moment ago. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
for the greens/efa group mr president, to answer a question like that in thirty seconds is obviously a virtually impossible feat. what's this about? the european central bank agrees to provide liquidity to banks that request it, without limitation, by accepting as collateral for this liquidity assets of all kinds. but the nature of these assets is not well understood. and there is a strong suspicion that many of these assets are, as we say, toxic or poisonous assets whose real market value is very difficult to establish and it could be that some of these assets have a value of zero. in these circumstances, it therefore constitutes a direct form of aid. clearly, if the central bank did not provide this liquidity against these collateral, which is actually quite evanescent, well, it's possible that some of these financial institutions would have to close their doors. finding an answer to this is not easy, but in any case, the first step is to have transparency about these actions.
mr president, lord dartmouth paints the greens as advocates of high taxes for the sake of high taxes. i just want to ask you, lord dartmouth, one very simple question. if services like education, health and security have value, i guess that you have to find ways to finance them. am i correct?
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner, who is standing in for his colleague, for being here. i welcome the initiative of the commission with regard to collective redress, which is a long-overdue initiative. it is also mentioned in the report, and i think it is in the interests of the consumers – provided it is well defined and well legislated. i think it is good. we will start with the green paper to see what the different opinions are. i welcome this. in the banking sector we have a very strange situation: state aid is on different levels in different countries, in different stages. in some countries, such as spain, in the banking sector the regional banks (cajas) in particular are in difficulty, and here life-support from the european central bank is needed – although the ecb, as mr lamberts pointed out in 30 seconds, risks having many bad assets. this turns the ecb into a sort of bad bank – something we should not have. in other countries, the states are trying to disengage from the banking sector, and here there is the danger of a dowry. i expect that you cannot reply to this issue of a dowry – it is something for the commissioner – but it would be very unfair to other banks that did not get state aid if some that have been recovered or needed resuscitation suddenly got one. so here we have to look at the issue of the level playing field. finally i come to the follow-up, because there were a few remarks by mrs in ’t veld, mrs gáll and mr bütikofer which were spot-on. we had a report last year, we have a report this year and we will probably have a similar report next year. it all stays the same. it looks a bit like a vatican-based ritual where we have the same things over and over again. i think that we have to look into the follow-up to the questions we have asked, and i propose that the rapporteur and the previous rapporteur get in touch with the commissioner and with the director-general of dg comp to see what happens with the request we made. we need to have a report that is properly implemented in terms of information provision. this is why i propose that we have a proper follow-up, in which mrs in ’t veld will certainly support me, to see what the commission is doing.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place later.
the agenda calls for the report by traian ungureanu, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on an eu strategy for the black sea (2010/2087(ini)) (a7-0378/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few moments. written declarations (art. 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation of christians and i am glad that the resolution was adopted, but i have my reservations about the use of language. for example, nowhere is it stated unequivocally that the greatest problems of christians are in muslim lands. in the second place, recital n states that europe is not free from cases of violations of religious freedom either, and that may be true, but in this way one is putting occasional and limited problems in europe on the same line as the structural discrimination and attacks against christians in muslim countries. and it's not just bombings and other physical violence by muslim extremists. there is also an official policy in many muslim countries that is directed against christians. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the behaviour of the turkish occupying forces in cyprus is also a real scandal.
in writing. a green light, on the tip of the lips, in the continuation of negotiations between the european union and libya to lead to a strengthening of our relations, but everything but a blank check. our energy security, our commercial and economic interests and our cooperation in the management of migration flows cannot in any way conceal the constant disregard shown by the libyan authorities and colonel gaddafi for the most basic human rights. a dictator in power for 41 years who said a few days ago that he regretted the departure of his tunisian counterpart ben ali. a repressive regime: death sentences (506 in may 2009 - 50% of whom were foreigners), executions and corporal punishment, illegal detentions, and inhuman treatment of migrants crossing their territory to reach europe. our resolution stresses this point in particular, recalling that any common migration policy must be conditional on stricter guarantees concerning the protection of migrants and other fundamental freedoms. similarly, any readmission agreement with that country should automatically exclude asylum seekers, refugees, persons in need of protection and avoid mass expulsions.
in writing. the use of force and violence by the police and kgb against protesters on election day can only be condemned. over 600 people were arrested and imprisoned. arrest, search and new sentences continued in the following days. this unacceptable attitude towards opposition can only challenge us. all those who have been arrested for political reasons must be released without delay. all persecution of the opposition, democratic forces and representatives of civil society must cease. this attitude of the authorities is also perplexing because it goes against the attitude adopted during the election campaign, during which we witnessed the emergence of pluralist forces, the constitution of a real opposition and an active civil society. the eu has not recognised the official results of the vote. if measures are to be taken against the government, the latter must not fail to penalise the population, ngos and civil society. the foreign affairs council on 31 january will have to decide on the necessary measures.
in writing. the arctic region is attracting increasing attention because of the effects of climate change, the main driver of its evolution. the european union is a major contributor to climate change and must therefore play a leading role in combating it. due to the growing need for natural resources, in particular in the union, the arctic represents a significant and varied potential in terms of energy supply (gas, renewable energy), raw materials and fish. the european union must commit itself to policies that take account of the sustainable management and exploitation of the region's natural resources in terms of environment, security and management. the application of iceland for membership highlights the need for a coordinated arctic policy at european level. it is up to the european union to strike a balance between environmental concerns and the race to exploit natural resources, and to take account of the interests of the people of the arctic region.
in writing. the strategic importance of the black sea is no longer to be demonstrated today. the new frontier of the european union since the accession of bulgaria and romania, it represents an obvious geostrategic space. the eu is called upon to be directly and permanently involved in this. turkey, georgia and ukraine have repeatedly expressed their appetite for europe. the commission responded by launching its communication in 2007 on 'black sea synergy'. the latter, while ensuring stability in the region, responds to the requests of the states for both a euro-atlantic anchorage and a framework for enhanced cooperation. the eu must continue along this path. it must step up its involvement in the black sea to demonstrate its diplomatic soft power. in this way, the eu will ensure the construction of an area of peace, stability and prosperity, as well as the certainty of the security of the eu's energy supply.
i would ask the president-in-office to look at mr van rompuy's invitation to the next council. he says, "we're going to talk about energy, and i'd like to focus on energy supply and energy security". but the council is wrong about debate. of course, energy supply and energy security are important, but especially in the context of a more global objective, namely an energy system that is fully independent and fully sustainable in the long term. i agree with many of the points that have been made, of course, but i would like to focus the debate a little further on the future. mr reul, chairman of our committee on energy, - he is not here today - said that politicians should not come up with too many new proposals. well, he's wrong. it is the task of politicians to have a vision of the future and to formulate objectives. the objective should be to move to fully renewable energy by 2050. it is not a matter of a few individual politicians or a few political groups. no, it's scientists who say that it's perfectly achievable if you do the right things now to reach that goal by 2050. and yes, there is energy efficiency and many colleagues have spoken about it. barroso has spoken very well about this and i hope from the bottom of my heart that the commissioner responsible will do the same. then, of course, we have to invest massively in renewable energy: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of networks of information and communication. and finally - and this is where europe has a very special task - it has to provide an energy network that makes all of that possible. it is the european union that must provide the financing. the council is expected to take decisions on this on friday.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i believe that what we are experiencing at the moment in tunisia and, above all, in the last few hours in egypt, is both historic and very tragic. we are now hearing that there have been, in the last few hours, hundreds and hundreds of injuries. i think about it mainly because i see a similarity between what is happening now in the middle east, in north africa, and what happened in europe in 1989. that is exactly why i am, i must say, surprised, astonished and disappointed at the way in which europe is making exactly the same mistakes as in 1989. it is incredible, mr president, that we, the so-called democratic continent, have not yet succeeded in giving our unreserved support to the masses who are in the street - the masses who ask for nothing but our support. (applause) and that, ladies and gentlemen, is something i have not heard from the high representative yesterday or today. why, mrs ashton, has europe reacted so weakly? in fact, we barely reacted. you reacted, and then germany, france and britain also communicated without consulting, as if europe did not exist. and i would like to say that the only good european intervention came from outside the union, namely from the turkish prime minister, mr erdogan, who told mr mubarak that he had to listen to the demands of his people and therefore had to leave. that is the only positive reaction we have heard at european level. (applause) i would like to thank i think the communication you're making today is very important for those who are on the streets and perhaps fighting for their lives. i believe that europe has made two mistakes in recent days. firstly, we do not understand the historical importance of the moment and, secondly, and this is much more important, we have a wrong analysis of the situation. we are afraid that is why there is this miscommunication of the establishment of an islamist regime after the elections. so i tell you, i'm not afraid. i trust the people of tunisia and the people of egypt. (applause) they are the ones who want democracy, and the fact that today and yesterday, copts and muslims are walking shoulder to shoulder is proof enough of what they want, which is a true open democracy. i will give you a second example to illustrate the fact that we should not be afraid to speak out for open democracy in these countries. you all know mohamed bouazizi, the man who actually started the revolution in tunisia by his self-immolation. well, mrs ashton, on mr bouazizi's coffin, there was not the green flag of islam, there was the red flag of tunisia, and so these are not islamic revolutions that we are experiencing at the moment. no, on the contrary, they are revolutions for freedom. (applause) i would like to thank so now that, for almost a week, thousands of people have been gathering in cairo, at a time when there are also demonstrations in jordan, yemen, syria, algeria, i ask you, mrs ashton, to change the position of the european union. and i want you to say today, here in this chamber, clearly, on our behalf, that the european union is 100 per cent behind the people of egypt and their demands. we want mubarak to finally listen to his people and to go and free his country for democracy and freedom today. that is the message i want to hear in your answer to the question. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would simply like to address mr tannock and reprimand his attitude towards those who are rising up today and, moreover, i would like to continue what guy verhofstadt and daniel cohn-bendit have said. the revolt is popular because the people are subjected to abject poverty, and therefore, the leaders that we supported, albeit in the name of a certain stability and to stem a risk of islamism, are creating terror and keeping the people in poverty. so i would like to ask you if you accept that the people have the right to revolt when they are kept in poverty. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, there are times when you really have to choose your side, as i have been told so many times in the european union. and the camp today is clear: my colleagues have said that this is the path to freedom, this is the voice of the people. so, as i speak to you, the cairo museum is on fire, fighting is breaking out in the streets, and i think, for egypt at least, we have not been clear enough. mubarak has to go, that has to be clear. mubarak, as he is and i respect his old fight , is not capable of taking on the political transition; it is folly to ask him to do this and to let the mubarak clan take on the el baradei clan in the streets of cairo today. we must take responsibility for this. and i want to tell you that in these last days, in these last nights, i have not stopped to ask myself what mistake we have made. we have made a master mistake: we have supported corrupt regimes in the name of stability, without taking into account social justice and the aspiration of peoples for freedom. (applause) i would like to thank that's a mistake we need to fix, and the time is now. the second mistake, i regret, my dear colleagues, is that we did not understand political islam. i didn't say "for not accepting political islam"! there's a difference between terrorists, fundamentalists, and some of the muslim brotherhood. it is up to us to make these distinctions, it is up to us to dialogue, it is up to us to exclude those we do not want, but we have made the bed today for these fundamentalists! we made some terrorists' beds! it is time to review these positions and, lastly, we must preserve the gains of the past of these countries, tunisia, egypt, etc., that is to say the secular structures of the states, the rights of women which were important in these countries, in secular structures and constitutions divorced from the sharia. there are ways to build democracies with extremely diverse parties. let us not throw the baby with the bath water, let us keep this idea of secularism of the state and respect for religions, beliefs and political diversity. (applause) i would like to thank
what is happening in countries like tunisia and egypt is of great significance. the people are rising up against dictatorial despots and that's a good thing. the big question, of course, is what will replace it. because there is such a thing as the paradox of democratization in the islamic world, where more democracy often leads to more islamism, which in turn leads to less democracy. of course, we must support the democratic process from europe. but this support must go to genuine democratic forces and it must never be the intention that an organisation such as the muslim brotherhood, with the support of the eu, should be able to establish a theocratic dictatorship in egypt. we are not going to be able to do that. so let us be careful in our choice of associates. in fact, until a few weeks ago, ben ali and his party were members of the socialist international. now that the wind has turned, he is suddenly thrown out. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter.
madam president, everything i wanted to say has in fact already been said, so i will limit myself to one question to the high representative. today mr blair, the former british prime minister, whom you probably know, had a lot of praise for the egyptian president hosni mubarak. today on cnn he said, ‘mubarak is immensely courageous and a force for good’. mr blair also warns against a rush to elections in egypt. now mr blair is currently envoy in the israeli-palestinian peace process, which is supported by the european union. what do you think about the statements of tony blair?
at this very moment, violent clashes are taking place between pro- and anti-mubarak protesters. we must send a clear signal to mubarak and call on his supporters to withdraw immediately and avoid unnecessary bloodshed. what is happening in egypt has surprised us all. we must approach this as an incredible opportunity and a chance to move this region from years of political and economic stagnation to a true democracy with opportunities for all. i am thinking first of all of the millions of young people who are yearning for more freedom and the opportunity to develop. the impact of this cannot be underestimated. some speak of a 1989 for the arab world, but that will have to be proved. the european union can show a little more voluntarism in order to give that transition process a strong boost, and i would naturally have liked to hear you speak on this subject alone - and this has already been said by others. we must make it clear very quickly that this transition process must start now and that mubarak clearly no longer has the legitimacy to lead or direct it. it is therefore necessary to draw up as soon as possible a timetable, a clear agenda of measures and reforms leading to the first free and transparent elections in september this year. that means, for example, changing the constitution, changing the electoral law, changing how media deals with politics, so that all candidates can present themselves to the people. all the democratic forces must be brought together as quickly as possible to bring this about, and europe must play a positive and constructive role in this. at the same time, we must also be aware of the complexity. the military, for example, is valued for its moderating and decisive role. it is very much praised for this, but it is also a very important economic player. and so if we are to carry out genuine democratic reforms, economic reforms will also be necessary, and that will not be easy.
i listen with great interest to the communication from the high representative and from the other members. many said they were totally surprised by what was happening in tunisia and egypt. i would like to say that i am surprised by such statements, because we knew that these were not exactly democratic regimes, but rather authoritarian to very authoritarian regimes that kept their people in a tight grip. we have chosen not to deal with this head on, because we thought that this was the best way to guarantee stability in the region and throughout the mediterranean. but it has been shown that support for authoritarian and corrupt regimes for the sake of stability and to avoid chaos usually ends in instability, chaos and no great future prospects. i hope we will be wise and support the democratization process in a wise way. i would like to call for special attention to be given to support for the various political parties in both tunisia and egypt. they're weak parties. they have had little chance to organise themselves in recent years and will need all the help they can get to play their part in what will hopefully be fair and short-term elections.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, after this discussion on tunisia, egypt and other countries which are today seeking freedom, i would like to say that the experience of our observer mission in south sudan for the referendum was a wonderful and exemplary scenario. exemplary because it went well and it thwarted all the catastrophic scenarios, and wonderful because we felt at that moment that the south sudanese people were crying, having waited for this moment sometimes for more than fifty years, having lived through the civil war and assuming this transition peacefully with indescribable happiness. it is true that it will be difficult afterwards, but we must be able to enjoy the moment that is coming, and i must say that, reflecting on the instruments of the european union and having criticized so many times these election observation missions that are not followed by a happy outcome, this was a real blessing. so south sudan will probably become, i think, the fifty-fourth state in africa on july 9th. now, some challenges are waiting for him; catherine ashton told me about it. firstly, there is the abyei oil region, which is on the border between the north and the south, but whose borders have not been clearly defined and which has not had its own specific referendum. we'll have to find a solution for abyei, but that's still outstanding. and there was violence during the referendum, as well as in unity state and south kordofan. this is a region that has the potential to destabilize the whole. then there is the issue raised by mariya nedelcheva, whom i welcome and thank for her participation in the mission, and by catherine ashton, namely citizenship. the south sudanese who were living in the north and had jobs there, with properties sometimes, have literally fled to the south by the tens of thousands, even hundreds of thousands, and they're going to have to be reintegrated probably into the economy of the south. they don't trust the north, they don't know if they can keep their jobs, probably not in the administrations, and that poses a very serious problem. finally, there is the problem of the international criminal court. the agenda of salva kiir, the south sudanese president, is, if the results are recognized by the north, cooperation with the north. he's already managed to bring president al-bashir to the south. he welcomed him to juba. it was extraordinary, it was reconciliation, the turning of the page. salva kiir tells us that if he signs the rome statute agreement now, that means that tomorrow he will have to arrest al-bashir when he comes home. he wonders how he's going to cooperate with him, then, how they're going to be able to carry out this so-called north-south reconciliation. "don't ask us that!" he said. and we, of course, want the international criminal court, but at the same time we tell ourselves that north-south cooperation is the recipe for peace. so there are a lot of problems - i apologize - and we'll have to solve them, but as i said, it was a nice experience, but sudan will remain united until july 9th again.
on behalf of the s&d group, on the eve of the energy summit and at a time when the commission and parliament are putting such a strong emphasis on energy efficiency and the good management of our resources, this is the kind of directive that should also put such good ideas into practice effectively. that is the ambition of parliament and that is the spirit in which we have worked on our amendments. it's about a mountain of waste that's growing, and it's not just about waste. in each of these electronic products there is a lot of material that we urgently need to recycle and reuse. the first directive clearly did not achieve that objective. in the knowledge that only one in three products is recycled or reused and we do not even know where one in two of such products is, we must set higher collection targets, better recycling targets. we must make sure that we export these products to the rest of the world. we want the products to stay here and the raw materials to stay with us. and we have above all ethical and ecological objections to the way in which these products are treated in third world countries, among others. in other words, parliament wants clear and very concrete objectives and i expressly thank my shadow rapporteurs and, of course, the rapporteur, mr florenz, for the very good cooperation which has enabled us to produce a coherent text and, above all, to be a parliament which will stand firm in the negotiations with the council. the council should be warned, because we want to put such ideas into practice effectively. it is particularly important for the s&d group that we place extra emphasis on illegal exports and that we also tackle small weee equipment. that is very important. no one is yet throwing a big refrigerator off the road, but our small appliances are not being treated properly. commissioner, i listened very carefully to what you said about the photovoltaic panels. you know that my group has long fought against the exceptional position of this. we have not had a chance to discuss it, but i will keep your word. you said you would come up with an evaluation and that evaluation should be part of the discussion with the council on whether to include the photovoltaic panels. i would ask my colleagues to support the ambitious text presented today.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation for the second reading of the development cooperation instrument. i would also like to stress that the european parliament has always been in favour of granting financial measures for the banana sector to the ten acp banana-producing countries. the only sticking point in this case is the horizontal question of delegated acts. i hope that we can reach an agreement on this last point at institutional level in the near future. it is hardly acceptable that the countries receiving these amounts should not be able to use them. this delay undermines the credibility of our commitments and undermines the conclusion of the economic partnership agreements.
in writing. these agreements put an end to more than 15 years of dispute between europe and the banana-producing countries of latin america and the united states, which denounced the preferential treatment accorded by the europeans to the exports of the acp countries (africa, the caribbean and the pacific). the european union will now gradually reduce its customs duties on banana exports from latin america. on the other hand, bananas from the acp countries will continue to enjoy duty-free access to the european union. in addition, the main acp banana-producing countries will receive support from the eu budget (up to eur 200 million) to help them adapt to the increased competition from latin america. however, particular care will have to be taken to ensure that the agreement does not cause damage to small producers by strengthening the monopoly position of the large us multinationals which control the banana market in latin american countries. these agreements will have to be subject to an impact study on their effect on producers in developing countries and the outermost regions of the european union.
in writing. the amount of waste electrical and electronic equipment is increasing every year and therefore raises a number of health and environmental issues in the event of disposal or improper reprocessing. all these devices - computers, televisions, mobile phones and appliances - also waste scarce raw materials. today, only a third of this waste is properly collected and treated. this proportion should therefore be increased. the proposed text addresses several aspects of ensuring the proper disposal of electrical and electronic waste, whether in terms of the collection rate (85 per cent of the waste collected), the purpose of collection, consumer responsibility, the type of equipment or standards for collection, treatment and recycling. it is equally important to avoid illegal transfer outside the european union, particularly to developing countries. the increase in collection points should make it easier for citizens to dispose of their waste. it is a further step in the direction of protecting the environment and human health.
in writing. eight years after the adoption of the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, the european parliament is once again taking a stand on the important issue of recycling waste high-tech products. and despite undeniable improvements in the treatment, recovery and disposal of this type of waste (an average drop of 20 kilograms of water per citizen in the ocean from the 5.8 tonnes of waste produced per year per european), progress still needs to be made. i therefore welcome the adoption this afternoon of the florence report, which reinforces the european commission's objective of achieving an eu-wide collection rate of 85% and a recycling rate of 50% to 75% by 2016, depending on the category of waste. how important it is, for example, to recover the valuable materials contained in a whole range of equipment: one ton of gsm contains about 280 grams of gold and 140 grams of platinum and palladium! it is common sense put to the service of environmental protection. in the same spirit, i supported the exclusion of solar panels from the directive for five years. it seems to me that this is a great way to promote this clean technology.
in writing. - i support this resolution, although i believe that support for democratic forces in these countries must be provided more regularly and earlier. many eu countries have a very difficult time doing this, often because economic interests are at stake. egypt, russia and china are good examples of this 'political discretion' or 'silence'. i hope that the developments in north africa will encourage more courage in the eu.
in writing. i share the position adopted in the resolution on tunisia. tunisia is at a historic turning point in its history: it is our duty to stand with the tunisian people by helping them build a stable democracy and by supporting and strengthening civil society, which, with its advocacy power, contributes greatly to the strengthening of democracy. i give my full support to the process of democratic transition and development in tunisia. in this context, i encourage the provisional government in its efforts to prepare for democratic elections representative of all political tendencies.
in writing. it is time for the european parliament to break its silence on the tunisian uprising. how can we remain deaf to the calls, how can we remain unmoved by this thirst for democracy, how can we not be burned by the sight of men and women, rich and poor, young and old, demanding to be freed from the reign of fear? there was a tacitly accepted model of autocracy, a scenario in which the poorest, or even the middle class, could not imagine ever being in control of their own destiny. that one road is now reduced to dust. these marches to freedom lay the foundations of a new society and shape the dreams of new balances. the time of the dictatorial and technocratic east has passed. you just have to imagine another one. let us hope that the european institutions will be more receptive than ever to any requests for cooperation from these new states.
in writing. i am very pleased to support a pan-european project that has added value not only for europe but also for the world, by aiming, in the long term, at the elimination of tuberculosis. in 2009, tb killed 1.7 million people, or 4,700 people a day. according to world bank estimates, the economic cost to africa of tobacco is $52 billion a year. the cases reported in the united kingdom and ireland during the summer of 2010 also remind us that this disease remains a serious problem for the european union. the tbvi initiative will create effective, affordable vaccines for the developing countries and adapted to emerging countries and europe. the european commission is the largest donor of official development assistance with €49 billion per year. but that's not enough. other sources of financing must be found, such as the establishment of a financial guarantee from the ems and/or the european union, which will allow the eib to raise funds. the tbvi initiative is a concrete implementation of the eu 2020 strategy. by making europe more attractive, it is preparing the new economy for future generations.
in writing. tb kills nearly two million people each year, mainly in sub-saharan africa and asia. this is a scourge that highlights the inequalities between north and south, the lack of resources, treatment and research, which we have at our disposal to control the disease. our resolution recalls the efforts to be made to detect and diagnose the disease better and more quickly. but it stresses the need for a large-scale vaccination programme, which alone can achieve one of the millennium development goals (mdg 6) and eradicate the disease by 2050. at the same time, pharmaceutical research must urgently focus on this neglected and 'unprofitable' disease. the financing of this research must be ensured, for example through european investment bank funds. as we know, three billion dollars are needed to implement the who's "stop tb" programme. this is an essential investment if research and innovation are to be advanced and thus help to strengthen solidarity with the poorest populations.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to support this request by rebecca harms. i also want to tell you that, since we formulated this request in the conference of presidents and now here at this plenary session, we have received more and more pressure from the russian side not to do it. mrs kristiina ojuland, who organised a seminar a few weeks ago on the rule of law in russia, was visited by a representative from the russian foreign affairs ministry saying: ‘do not push for this’ and ‘do not push for a resolution in the european parliament on the rule of law in russia’. i do not think it is up to the russians to decide the agenda of the european parliament: it is up to us ourselves to do that. (applause)
- i'm the reporter. - we are talking about safe food for humans and safe feed for animals. these are obviously top priorities for the european union. needless to say, this is important legislation and, of course, legislation which hopefully will never, ever have to be applied again. because we're dealing with radioactive contamination. the highest safety standards are therefore required. the current standards and rules are at least 20 years old. the constitutional and social context has changed considerably. so it's gonna take a few more adjustments. it is the improvements which we hope will be adopted by this parliament tomorrow and which we hope will be taken into account by the other institutions. firstly, it is essential - and i hope the commissioner will be able to listen in a moment - that the commission plays a central role in such emergencies and not the council. it is in the interest of all citizens, commissioner, that the commission should manage the situation following a nuclear accident. because this clearly transcends the interest of individual national governments. the current arrangements, to which i referred earlier, were therefore drawn up in the period immediately following the chernobyl disaster. that was 1986. it must therefore be updated and brought into line with the new institutional context within the european union. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the commission is adapting the standards it has set to technical progress, and this on the basis of consultation with experts, experts in the field of public health, experts in the field of food safety. it is obvious, but it is not currently in the existing system as such. and that is why we propose to make this explicit. in this connection, we expressly ask the commission to report next year on the appropriateness of the standards as they have been set today. and whether it is desirable to continue working on the so-called list of less important foods, or whether it is still appropriate to continue this list for a longer period. the third point, mr president, commissioner, is the definition of infant feedingstuffs, which is obviously a very sensitive subject and which needs to be improved. the existing text is not really adapted to the recent european food regulation and it is essential that this text be included. that is what we are putting to the house tomorrow. fourthly: the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: there is no explicit provision for this at the moment. we ask the commission, and it will do so tomorrow by means of an oral amendment, to examine this and, if necessary, to come forward with a proposal. and last but not least, of course, the legal basis. the commissioner, the legal affairs committee of this parliament unanimously decided that this matter should fall under article 168 (4) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's health system is not affected by the new technologies. this is of course a major change, because it means that we have to apply codecision instead of consultation on the basis of the euratom treaty. we expect the council and the commission to take this seriously, in the interests of all europeans, and to go along with it.
member of the commission. - mr president, there is what i can say as a politician, as a citizen, and what i must say on the legal level, on behalf of the commission. mrs. harms, you mentioned that i was french, but i'm going to go further than that. these are subjects that have interested me for a very long time. i had to deal with these issues of soil contamination when i was minister for the environment of the french republic. i was even, i think, one of the few ministers in 1993 and 1994 to go to chernobyl and spend 17 seconds under the sarcophagus. i have not forgotten my visit to pripyat, a ghost town, where the curtains are still on the windows and the children's toys are still there. i haven't forgotten that. as a french parliamentarian, i worked on an initiative for ecological security in europe. i even wrote a book, an atlas of the major risks in the world describing all the risks of contamination, especially nuclear, where the risk culture is not sufficient. so these are subjects that interest me, ma'am. i was also, not so long ago, french minister of agriculture. safety and health, the protection of citizens and consumers, and also animal health, which is important, are subjects which interest me and on which i can understand the attention and vigilance of the members of the european parliament at this time of the evening. and that is why, as i said to mr belet, i have listened personally to the concerns which you have expressed very unanimously and i will echo them to the president of the commission and my colleagues. so this is what i can tell you, what i just told you and who hired me. and then there is what i have to say to you on the legal side and the two points on which the commission's collegiate position is based, which are a legal analysis by our department and my colleagues, mr šefčovič and mr oettinger. the two points are, i remind you, firstly, that the euratom treaty contains the appropriate legal basis for the health protection rules on radioactive contamination - and these rules prevail - and, secondly, that the interinstitutional agreement on the recasting must be, i am sure i can say on behalf of the commission, respected by the three institutions. these are the points on which the commission based its analysis and its collective position in calling for these amendments to be rejected. i also wanted to tell you, madam president, and all your colleagues, that i have heard your concerns and will repeat them to my colleagues.
- i'm the reporter. - commissioner, i have the utmost respect for you, especially as an expert on the basis of your visit to chernobyl at the time and of course also on the basis of your expertise in agriculture, but allow us, as the european parliament, to fundamentally challenge the view that exists collegially within the commission. you have referred to judgments of the european court in other cases. now, this is a different matter and what we are opposing is a unanimous view, on the basis of consensus, of the legal affairs committee of the european parliament to change that legal basis, to adapt it to the new institutional context of the lisbon treaty. this is not a showdown between the institutions, this is about the health of the citizens, one of the pillars of the lisbon treaty. and that is why we regret that the commission is sticking to its position. again, no blame on you, on the contrary, but in our opinion a huge missed opportunity. and that is why parliament reserves the right to look at this codification dossier in a broader context. the existing procedures, mr president and commissioner, in the event of an accident involving radioactive contamination, are totally inadequate to the present institutional situation. and the proposals which we are putting on the table here tomorrow as the european parliament, and which we hope will be adopted by a large majority, will provide a fundamental improvement on the existing rules, which are really not adequate today. i will give you one concrete example, commissioner, if you will listen to me for a moment: we are asking the commission to carry out an evaluation of the standards in the annex, an evaluation based on experts in public health and food safety. these are rules, commissioner, from the late 1980s when you were visiting chernobyl. the revision clause which we as a parliament are asking for tomorrow is not too early. thank you for your attention and your commitment.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank my fellow authors and, in particular, peter liese, who has just spoken, and alojz peterle for this very welcome initiative on cord blood donation, a gift of life, which has made extraordinary, considerable medical advances possible over the last twenty years thanks to the transplantation of these stem cells with which it is replete. they are now used to treat over 80 diseases, from cancers mainly - brain cancer, blood cancer, leukemia, lymphoma - anemias, autoimmune diseases, certain rare diseases, and the list is growing. despite this, only 1% of this placental blood, so rich in potential and promise, is still preserved in europe. the figures for the netherlands are very similar to those for the united kingdom, where the figure is only 1% of the more than 15 million births per year, with huge differences between countries: 7 000 donations recorded in belgium, 7 000 in france, six times more populated than its northern neighbour. we therefore ask the commission to carry out, in cooperation of course - as the commissioner has reminded us - with the 27 member states, an information campaign among future parents so that this gift becomes obvious, i would say necessary. with the right information, european mothers will naturally want to give birth twice. that is why it seems to me essential, beyond the uniform transposition of the 2004 directive on the quality and safety of tissues and cells which has already been mentioned, and which is the subject of our second question, that europe strongly encourage the member states to simplify their procedures and systems for accrediting maternity hospitals. too few are still qualified to preserve and store cord blood, and the figures prove it. we cannot tolerate any longer that the raging debate, the controversy over the destination and use of this blood - public or private banks - that this debate, which is not a matter for us to decide, should put a real deadlock on this technique, and this is the call made by professor éliane gluckman, who has dedicated her entire career to making cord blood donation a gift of life.
mr president, on this 14 february, valentine's day, i wanted to remind you that in europe, one in five women is a victim of domestic violence. in europe, 40 to 50% of women have experienced sexual harassment at work. we are in the 21st century and europe has still not taken legislative measures to eradicate violence against women. the european parliament has repeatedly asked for it, the council has demanded it, the commission has promised it, but where is the european strategy to combat violence against women? violence against women is the most serious and widespread violation of human rights in europe. we need european action to overcome the enormous differences between our countries in the protection of women. domestic violence against women - to mention just one of the unfortunately widespread forms of violence - now costs us one million euros every half hour, to put it in figures. and if we want a more modern and democratic europe, we need a strong strategy against violence against women.
what is on the table is indeed a compromise, and here and there we would have liked to have been a little more ambitious, including the timing and the amount of the fines. on the other hand, however, it is important to establish emission standards for this category of vehicles which seemed to be slipping a little between the cracks of the grid, since there are some rules for passenger cars on the one hand and for lorries on the other. the trend is in the right direction, but - as you yourself have said - the number of vans has been increasing enormously in recent years and it looks as if it will continue to do so in the years to come. as a member of the committee on transport i would therefore like to return to speed limiters. we had proposed with the committee to fix the speed at 120 kilometres per hour from 2018, which is very reasonable. as you know, there is already a limit for lorries, and i think it would be very useful to legislate on this for environmental reasons, but also for road safety reasons. i think that this should be done at european level, and there is little point in leaving it to the member states. i would therefore like to invite you, commissioner, to take up this matter again with your colleague mr kallas - he is already in the chamber - and to study it and come to a proposal. i think this would be a good thing for both your jurisdictions, the environment and road safety.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, it is a pleasure for me to take part in this debate on the proposal for a regulation on the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport. this is a very important moment, as our discussions on this legislative act are coming to a close after two years. first of all, on behalf of the council, i would like to express my thanks and appreciation to the european parliament for its cooperation and for the sprit of compromise that allowed us to reach an agreement in the conciliation committee to the benefit of eu bus and coach passengers, in particular as regards disabled persons and passengers with reduced mobility. the discussions among the three institutions have not been easy, but they were always constructive and guided by a spirit of compromise. the joint text on which an agreement was reached at the conciliation committee meeting, and which will hopefully be adopted today, represents a compromise across political groups. therefore, i would like to pay tribute to all involved in the work on this legislative proposal, and in particular to vice-president kratsa-tsagaropoulou, brian simpson – chair of the committee on transport and tourism, mr cancian – the rapporteur, and the shadow rapporteurs, for their work. together they have had to bring the legislative process to a successful outcome. my thanks also go to commissioner kallas and his team and to their counterparts from the secretariats in parliament and the council. together they worked tirelessly in helping to move things forward. last but not least, i would like to express my appreciation for the excellent work of the belgian presidency in securing the necessary support within the council for the compromise reached in the conciliation committee. i am convinced that the joint text resulting from the conciliation committee meeting represents a fair balance between the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport and the interests of carriers, most of which are small- and medium-sized enterprises. in the council’s view, the main objective of the regulation is to grant rights to passengers travelling on regular services where the scheduled distance is equal to, or more than, 250 kilometres. furthermore, a guaranteed number of rights will apply independently of the distance travelled. the new rules focus in particular on helping disabled persons and passengers with reduced mobility. in the discussions between the three institutions, we were able to find mutually acceptable solutions on a number of difficult issues, namely the scope, the rights of passengers in the event of cancellations or delays, compensation and assistance in the event of accidents, provisions easing the transition to the new rules, and finally the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. as you already know, the council approved the joint text at its meeting on 31 january 2011. this legislative act will therefore be signed tomorrow. its publication in the official journal of the european union can be expected in march. signor presidente, da ultimo desidero esprimere le mie congratulazioni all'onorevole cancian per l'eccellente lavoro svolto. let me congratulate you on a job well done.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the legislative proposal on the rights of passengers travelling by bus and by coach that we are discussing today is the result of a very difficult process, including conciliation. long negotiations on the night of 30 november 2010 at the conciliation committee led to a breakthrough and a compromise after more than two years of negotiations. let me convey my heartfelt thanks to you for making this happen. first to vice-chair madam kratsa-tsagaropoulou for her skilful leadership, to mr simpson, chair of the committee on transport and tourism, mr cancian, the rapporteur, and of course we should also mention the belgian presidency. i am grateful to parliament for always having pushed for a high level of passenger protection. after the endorsement by the council on 31 january, i invite you to also adopt this regulation and formally conclude the procedure. the proposal on the rights of passengers travelling by bus and coach now completes the arrangements for the protection of travellers and will ensure that passengers benefit from the same basic standards of service quality wherever they travel in the union. the compromise text contains important achievements: it provides a set of basic rights for all passengers travelling by bus and coach. as mr cancian has already mentioned, there were difficult points unresolved until the last moment of negotiations. some may say that the scope of the regulation on bus and coach services of 250 kms and more is too limited and they would have wished to see passengers in local transport protected too. others may claim that the text contains provisions whose implementation would be costly, in particular for smaller operators. i am of the opinion that the text represents a very well-balanced compromise. we should not forget that a number of basic rights apply to services of all kinds and provide special protection to the most vulnerable passengers. on the other hand, potential cost implications for the industry have been kept to a minimum. all in all, the compromise text constitutes a real advance for travelling citizens and for the image of the industry.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank my colleague mr cancian in particular for his work, because it was not an easy dossier, which we have brought to a good conclusion here. of course, a compromise always has advantages and disadvantages. some people think it's too much, others think it's not enough. it was not easy with the council, so i would like to thank the council very much for the last-minute compromise we reached. i think the scope is correct. three countries are not directly concerned and, since luxembourg is very much concerned across borders, it is actually only two countries that are not directly concerned. public transport that can easily be included in the tender specifications for how to respect or even strengthen passenger rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is available to everyone in the region. the epp will support the compromise as a whole. we see the passenger rights as a package and hope that we may soon be able to achieve a consolidated version of the package so that tomorrow we have rights that benefit citizens and not so much lawyers. i think there are still a number of problems, particularly in implementation, where the rules have not been helpful to the citizen and have not been clear enough to define the rights of the citizen. in that sense, thank you for your cooperation. i hope that a large majority in the plenary will be found in favour of this sound compromise.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his efforts and the shadow rapporteurs and mr simpson, all those who contributed to the result; the belgian presidency must also be mentioned. but let me begin by making a point of criticism, particularly to the council. i particularly regret that the scope of application only covers journeys of more than 250 kilometres, whereas it would be logical, from a european point of view, for all crossborder connections to be covered by the provisions of the directive. even the 250 kilometres was barely adequately supported by the member states. this dossier, as well as many others, shows that it is becoming increasingly difficult to find a majority of member states which can reason in the interests of consumers or from a european perspective, and i find that very worrying. that said, this regulation completes the list. we now have european rules of the game on passenger rights for all modes of transport. and the next step must be - the commissioner has announced that he will do so - to learn from the experience gained in the various sectors and to come to a more integrated approach to passenger rights. these must also be enforced in the field. this regulation will be a step forward, particularly for people with reduced mobility. they will no longer be able to be refused and will be able to count on assistance if needed. i think this is important. as with other modes of transport, compensation is provided in some cases and arrangements are made for the reception of stranded passengers in the event of long delays. for these reasons we want to support the compromise. it is not with much enthusiasm, not least because the regulation will not come into force for another two years, but it is a step in the right direction and it is a compromise between the council's extreme position on the one hand and our more ambitious objectives on the other.
madam president, i will therefore abstain, along with the liberals, in the vote this afternoon on this regulation on the rights of passengers on buses and coaches, the last link in the package on passenger protection after airplanes, trains and ships, a link which unfortunately - as has been said - is much less ambitious. this has been said by mr simpson and mr el khadraoui, and the socialist group has said no less. so it's going to take more than 150 miles to get protected by this regulation. you fly from brussels to amsterdam, you're covered; you do it by bus, you're not. and it is all the more unfair, i feel, because it is often the less privileged passengers who use this mode of transport. another nonsense is that the entry into force of a possible derogation in a derogation is postponed until 2011. new rights, therefore, and compensation in the event of accidents, delays and cancellations, assistance which is essential for disabled people, but which will not be available immediately and certainly not for everyone.
madam president, it is an oral amendment on compensation for farmers, with thanks to mrs rivasi for the initiative. it reads as follows: ‘the commission shall submit, by march 2012, a report to the european parliament and the council on the appropriateness of a mechanism for compensating farmers whose foodstuffs have been contaminated above the maximum permitted levels and that cannot be placed on the market. that mechanism should be based on the polluter-pays principle. the report shall, if appropriate, be accompanied by a legislative proposal setting up such mechanism’. this is a joint proposal by five political groups.
i have abstained on the lehne report not because i object to the creation of a european unitary patent protection, on the contrary. the companies in flanders have long wanted such a system. the idea itself can only be applauded, especially when we consider what an expensive and cumbersome procedure it is today to apply for a patent in all the member states individually. i abstained because there is still no complete clarity on the language arrangements. it is now clear to what extent the commission's draft regulation takes account of the official languages other than english, french and german. i am and will remain of the opinion that it should be possible to submit a dossier in dutch.
in writing. − a concrete and rapid implementation of the services directive by the member states is of the utmost importance for a single european internal market. it is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises wishing to offer their services across borders to have a single point of contact that provides them with the essential information and the necessary procedures. the deadline for member states to transpose the services directive is now more than a year away. it is not very useful to discuss numerous amendments over and over again, but it is more useful to examine implementation more closely. although some member states have already taken steps to do so, others do not want to remember what they signed at the time. therefore, the correct implementation should be carried out in all 27 member states without delay in order to facilitate cross-border trade in services as quickly as possible.
in writing. almost four and a half years after the adoption of the famous bolkestein services directive, this key issue, which covers a wide range of activities representing around 40% of gdp and employment in the union, is back on the european parliament's agenda. the climate has now, fortunately, calmed down and the left-wing groups seem to have abandoned their dogmatic stance on the services directive, the aim of which, it is important to recall, is to remove the superfluous and burdensome obstacles to the provision of services in the european union. it must be said that the gebhardt report voted on this afternoon is less about the content of the text than about the evaluation of the efforts made by the member states to transpose it. this was done under the directive, as member states were required by the end of 2009 to simplify their administrative procedures and to establish 'one-stop-shops' to make it easier for businesses to complete formalities electronically. and the least that can be said is that progress is still needed in many member states to strengthen the single market and facilitate the day-to-day activities of smes, of which only 8% do business outside their national borders.
in writing. − in 2006, the liberalisation of the services market was launched. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the report which is being put to the vote today takes stock of the difficulties encountered in implementing this directive on services. although it contains good elements such as the call for regular evaluation and also for the long-term effects to be examined, it contains things with which i do not agree. for example, the member states experienced little or no significant difficulties in implementing the directive. that is not true, because it remains unclear whether or not certain social services are covered by the directive. the report is too enthusiastic about the potential for job creation. the creation of jobs was not examined, nor were the loss of jobs, nor the quality of jobs, let alone the increased pressure on working conditions following the judgments of the court of justice. the legal uncertainty created by the absence of a clear alternative to the principle of the country of origin is not mentioned. the greens had, however, asked for an evaluation of the prohibition on member states imposing additional requirements on service providers, but this was rejected. i voted against it.
in writing. in december 2008, the commission presented a proposal for a regulation on passenger rights in bus and coach transport. the main objective of this proposal was to establish common provisions on passenger rights in bus and coach transport. now it is done, and i am glad of it: passengers travelling at least 250 km by bus now have the same rights throughout the eu to information, assistance and compensation in the event of cancellation, overbooking and delay of at least two hours. passengers must be given the choice between reimbursement of the ticket price or continuing the journey under the same conditions and without additional charges. if reimbursement is the only option available, compensation of 50% of the ticket price should be granted. in addition, in the event of loss or damage to luggage, passengers will be entitled to compensation.
in writing. i abstained on this regulation on passenger rights in bus transport, which was voted by a large majority of socialists/conservatives. i regret the considerable backsliding from the position originally adopted by our parliament on three main points. 1. the only distances greater than 250 km will be covered. in practice, the passenger on a brussels-amsterdam bus journey will not be protected, whereas the one on an airplane will be! this is unfair, especially when we consider that it is often the less privileged who use this mode of transport. 2. the the force majeure clause (bad weather or natural disaster) may be too easily invoked by bus operators to circumvent compensation to passengers in the event of delay or cancellation. 3. the the derogations will allow those states which so wish to postpone the entry into force of this regulation until 2021! i am, however, pleased with the progress made in the text: compulsory assistance for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, rights and compensation in the event of accidents, delays or cancellations. but parliament has settled for a badly-constructed rebate agreement. except in exceptional cases, the scope of these rights will be considerably limited, to the detriment of bus passengers.
in writing. this is the fourth package on safeguarding passenger rights. after a regulation on the rights of passengers in air, rail and water transport, we now deal with the rights of bus passengers. they will now be compensated for travel delays of more than 250 kilometres, assisted in cancelling trips, protected in the event of accidents and deaths and reimbursed for lost or damaged belongings. passengers with reduced mobility will also be entitled to special assistance, as is already the case with airlines. the ep's position at first and second readings was substantially weakened. the ep wanted to apply the rules to journeys of more than 50 kilometres. the council only wanted it for journeys longer than 500 kilometres. the compromise was 150 miles. this means that they do not apply to routes which are commonly used, such as brussels-amsterdam, luxembourg-strasbourg or vienna-budapest. it is good that this legislation provides a list of 12 basic rules - valid for any distance - that focus on the needs of disabled people and other people with reduced mobility. nevertheless, the green group is very disappointed with the very weak result achieved. that is why i am voting against this agreement with the green group.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, particularly for the progress it makes in the areas of disabled people and persons with reduced mobility, the filing and handling of complaints, and compensation and assistance in the event of an incident. however, i would like to stress the urgent need for member states to enforce very strictly the provisions on passenger rights in the event of cancellations and delays in order to avoid the many deviations in the application of the air passenger rights regulation.
in writing. − reducing co2 emissions is desirable for all modes of transport, including small goods vehicles. the setting of limit values is important in order to achieve an ambitious approach among vehicle manufacturers. the agreement on the limit values is due, among other things, to the negotiating skills of the belgian presidency. this compromise includes a short-term target of 175 g/km in 2014. it also sets a phase-down target, with a long-term target of 147 g/km by 2020. these objectives are accompanied by measures to encourage industry to build energy-efficient commercial vehicles. the achievement of these objectives will not only benefit small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the main users of sprinters and vans, but also private individuals and, last but not least, the environment. we will have a say not only at eu level but also in the world market tomorrow if we produce safe and clean vehicles. we should also not allow our expertise to be exported to other countries - such as china - by hesitant eu policies, but use it as a way to shape a sustainable european environmental policy that has a positive impact not only on europe's industrial base, but also on employment. i welcome the compromise reached and have therefore supported it.
in writing. commercial vehicles will also have to go green. i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive which obliges manufacturers to reduce co2 emissions from vans and other commercial vehicles over the next decade. the proposal is largely based on the eu regulation on co2 emissions from cars, which has been in force since 2008. a reasonable vote after agreement with the council and which, more or less, takes up the main proposals of the european commission, namely the obligation to reduce polluting emissions from utilities to 175 g/km co2 in 2014 for 100% of the fleet and to gradually reduce them to 147 g/km co2 by 2020. it is a setback, since we voted for a more ambitious target in september 2010 in the committee on the environment. the extra costs for the manufacturers of vans and minibuses will be largely offset by the fact that these vehicles will pollute less and consume less, and that is ultimately what drivers are interested in.
in writing. - i fully support the initial proposal to set co2 emission standards for new light commercial vehicles to avoid a regulatory gap due to certain overlaps between the registrations of passenger cars and commercial vehicles. at present, many vehicles type-approved as passenger cars, such as suvs, are registered as light commercial vehicles, often because the latter category is taxed less heavily or enjoys other tax benefits. although the legislation on passenger cars (and this proposal) is based on the type-approval of the vehicles (and not on registration), the lack of legislation on light commercial vehicles risks that manufacturers would apply for type-approval as a light commercial vehicle for larger passenger cars. this would mean that the co2 emission standards would not apply to these high-emission vehicles. the first reading agreement has turned out to be a very weak agreement, postponing the binding target of 175 g co2/km by one year. the 2020 target is set at 147 g/km and the fines for non-compliance are reduced from eur 120/gram to eur 95/gram. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the proposed legislation is not underestimated. the sense of urgency is gone, that much is clear. that is why i am voting no.
in writing. i am very pleased with the outcome of the case, which has been pending since the 1990s. in december 2009, the council adopted the principle of the creation of the community patent. but a year later the council confirmed that insurmountable difficulties existed with regard to the translation arrangements which required unanimity. the case was then taken up by the belgian eu presidency but, as the deadlock remained, 12 member states requested a proposal for a regulation authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of a unitary patent. the competitiveness council therefore envisaged authorising enhanced cooperation in march 2011. i would point out that the creation of a unitary patent will bring benefits to users of the patent system in europe, and will allow smes, which are often overlooked, to improve their competitiveness through better access to patent protection and reduced costs.
in writing. the belgian presidency of the union was a great success. among its many achievements is the european patent agreement, an imperative regulation to boost innovation and competitiveness in europe. this harmonization of legal protection has been the wish of the european liberals for almost 15 years. it will put an end to the waste generated by the coexistence of national and european patents, estimated at nearly eur 400 000 per year. the commission has also decided to open the case to the member states, which are now in the process of adopting the enhanced cooperation procedure. it is a fair application of the lisbon treaty which allows a 'european vanguard' of at least nine member states to cooperate when a legislative initiative is blocked. for all these reasons, the vote by the european parliament this afternoon on the lehne report is essential. it's a good sign. for european companies that need to develop within a stable legal framework, placing them on an equal footing with international competition. and for inventors, whose creative activity must be better protected by the european union.
in writing. more than 20 years ago, the european commission proposed the creation of a single european patent as soon as possible, stressing its urgent need. at present, a patent in europe must be validated country by country, with a translation into the national language concerned each time. it takes up to €20,000, including €14,000 for translation, to validate a patent in only half the eu countries. in the united states, about $1,500 is enough. the absence of a european patent hinders our competitiveness, european innovation, research and development. this is why enhanced cooperation is fully justified on this issue, which is fundamental for the future of the eu.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i think we can be satisfied with mr barroso's statements on the amendment of the treaty. of course, it is now up to us to make our own judgments and we must do so before 24 march because there is an important council meeting on that date. can we get a majority for a simplified procedure? we'll see about that. i think there are still some conditions to be met. the first condition i see is that we should try to get the mechanism managed as much as possible by the commission. and i have good reasons for that. you have certainly seen that the esm, which is managed by the commission, issued on 6 january five billion bonds on the market over five years. and the efsf, which is intergovernmental, did the same thing on january 25th, also for five billion and also for five years. those managed by the commission were issued at 2.5% and those issued by the intergovernmental system were marketed at 2.89%. this means that the esm, managed by the community method, issues at lower interest rates than the intergovernmental system. i wanted to point this out because it is important to show that the community method has much better results than the intergovernmental system. secondly, i think we should also ask ourselves whether we cannot use the amendment to article 136 to strengthen the economic governance package that is on the table at the moment. mrs wortmann-kool, with other rapporteurs, has six proposals on the table. the council's approval is still required for these six proposals before the commission can initiate the procedures. this problem can also be solved by article 136. it could be said that if article 136 is used, that is to say the permanent crisis mechanism, the commission can automatically initiate this procedure and that there can be no blocking by the council, that is to say, a real automaticity in the sanctions, with a reversed qualified majority. this is a second point which we should perhaps take up in our opinion and i say this to mr brok and mr gualtieri, who are both rapporteurs for our committee. third and final point. mr brok and mr gualtieri, you who are rapporteurs, you must try to get statements and assurances from the council, not on the current package, but on everything that has been announced in recent days: the competitiveness pact, the intergovernmental method, many countries who are against... there is a real split in the council at the moment on this issue. i think we must have the assurance from the council that it will also apply the community method in this second economic governance package. why would you do that? because the intergovernmental method doesn't work. imagine if the competition rules in the european union were administered by the council! how often have there been fines against companies which do not apply the competition rules? there would never have been a fine against a firm, against a private company, because it had not applied the competition rules in the european union. the same applies to these rules, and that is why i am calling for the two rapporteurs to try to ensure that the community method is also applied in the second economic governance package.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by ria oomen-ruijten, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on 'towards adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems in europe' (2010/2239(ini)) (a7-0025/2011).
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would first like to underline the important work of consensus that has been achieved by the rapporteur. congratulations ria! you are a great girl! it has shown an openness to my group's arguments during the negotiation of the compromises, which has led to a large majority vote on the draft report in the committee on employment. the repetition of such a majority vote tomorrow would send a strong signal to the other institutions. indeed, this report on the future of pensions in europe is so far the only european institutional document to go against the grain of the thinking put forward by the commission, notably in its annual growth analysis, and by the merkel-sarkozy duo in their document on a competitiveness pact. these documents call very directly for the first pillar to be called into question and for the legal retirement age to be automatically increased in line with life expectancy, whereas parliament, in the draft report as amended and adopted, calls for the first pillar on pensions to play a fundamental role as the best guarantor of solidarity, with a complementary role for the other pillars, including a second pillar to be generalized; for greater attention to raising the effective retirement age and the employment rate, especially of the elderly, rather than automatically raising the legal age as a matter of course; the definition of criteria for the establishment of an adequate minimum guaranteed pension in the member states; for a stronger role of the social partners in the definition and implementation of all pension reforms in europe; the commission has not yet adopted a proposal to amend the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. with these elements, with these advances and others that i could have mentioned, i am satisfied that parliament can send our commissioner a clear message, a social and progressive message, which i hope he will take into account for the future stage of the white paper.
i think that the rapporteur and i have found some very balanced answers to the question put by the commission. there are two areas in which i believe the european union has added value. if we emphasize the importance of the first pillar, and rightly so, we must also say that the health of public finances is equally important. because it is those sound public finances that support the first pillar. and then you have to look at the pension burden that government bears in the long run and make that very clear. i think that the commission and the european union have a duty to make this clear to each member state, so that everyone can see where the risks and difficulties lie. secondly, i believe that the european union also has a role to play in the second pillar. you have mentioned the importance of solvency ii. what we are asking here is that the commission should look at what the longer-term risks are and make clear in its regulations how those risks should be covered. i think that you have to look specifically at the long-term risk of pension systems in general, not of one type, but of all the pension systems in the second pillar. there's a job to be done. i am afraid that if i look at the figures, as mrs harkin does, we in the european union have not covered the necessary risks in all the member states.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon (wednesday, february 16, 2011). i would remind those who were not able to speak that if they wish they can submit a written statement of no more than 200 words which will be annexed to the full report of the debate if you wish to keep track of what you would have said if you had been able to say it. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by marisa matias, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/83/ec as regards the prevention of the introduction into the legal supply chain of medicinal products falsified as to their identity, history or source (com ((2008) 0668 - c6-0513/2008 - 2008/0261 (cod)) (a7-0148/2010).
50% of medicines sold on the internet and 1-3% of medicines sold in pharmacies are counterfeit. these falsifications are evolving, affecting not only comfort medicines but also life-saving medicines. we must protect the health of our citizens who, for reasons of economy or time, order from the internet without realising that they are in danger. and when those fake drugs get into the official supply chain and end up in the pharmacy, they can cost any of us our lives. 200,000 people die every year worldwide from ingesting fake medicines. it is not only a problem of concern, but a scourge against which we must fight with all our strength. that is why i welcome the forthcoming adoption of this directive, which will create a unique traceability identifier to verify the authenticity of medicines and a common logo to identify safe websites offering the sale of medicines at a distance. i would like to stress one point, however: the patient's right to security cannot be used as a pretext for increasing prices.
member of the commission. − allow me to address each of the four component questions in turn. the first question was: can the commission explain why a decision was not taken in 1998 to ban the marketing of pharmaceuticals containing benfluorex? the answer: benfluorex was discussed in 1998 in the committee for proprietary medicinal products, now called the committee for medical products for human use, of the european medicines agency, and subsequently in the pharmacovigilance working party. the committee considered that benfluorex should not be included in the scope of an ongoing evaluation procedure at european level, concerning certain anorectic agents due to a different mode of action. however, it was agreed that the committee’s pharmacovigilance working party would investigate if there was a safety issue with this compound. in march 1999, the pharmacovigilance working party concluded that there were no major benefit-risk concerns for medicinal products containing benfluorex. further discussion in the working party did not lead to changes in this conclusion. the second question: should the commission not have been alerted and not first by the bans imposed by the authorities in spain and italy? the answer: italy and spain did not revoke the marketing authorisation for benfluorex. in fact, the first time that a member state effectively took measures to revoke the national marketing authorisation for mediator was in 2009, when france suspended its national marketing authorisation. in spain it was the marketing authorisation holder, servier, that withdrew the marketing authorisation in 2003. similarly, it was servier itself that did not request the renewal of the marketing authorisation in 2003 in italy. the product remained authorised in france, portugal, luxembourg and greece. benfluorex was discussed within the pharmacovigilance working party, acting in its role as a forum for member states to exchange pharmacovigilance data among themselves. i would like to clarify that monitoring of pharmacovigilance data and the subsequent decision-making on national authorisations for medicinal products is the primary responsibility of member states. commission intervention in these cases is exceptional and limited to concrete situations foreseen in the legislation. the commission can launch a europe-wide evaluation by the european medicines agency in two cases: firstly, when member states adopt divergent national decisions concerning a marketing authorisation and, secondly, before any decision is reached on the granting, variation, suspension or revocation of a marketing authorisation that appears necessary, in particular when taking account of pharmacovigilance information in cases where it considers that the interests of the community are involved. in this case no action was triggered at eu level in the light of the conclusions of the pharmacovigilance working party and the fact that no divergent decisions were taken at the time by the member states in response to the discussions in the working party. the third question was: why did the commission not act until as late as june 2010 when it finally took a clear decision on the marketing of that molecule? the answer: it was only in 2009 that a member state, namely france, suspended the marketing authorisation of mediator. under the new provisions in place since 2004 this automatically triggered a review of the product’s benefit-risk balance, which led to the adoption of a commission decision requiring all member states to revoke any national authorisations for benfluorex containing medicinal products. in this context it is important to stress that the new pharmacovigilance legislation adopted on 15 december 2010 introduced additional provisions to ensure signal detection by the european medicines agency of safety issues for nationally-authorised products and creates new procedures at eu level to assess safety signals for such products, leading to harmonised actions by the member states. the fourth and last question was: will the commission ask the european medicines agency to conduct a full retrospective investigation into the ways in which this drug was used over 20 years? the answer: to date the commission has not asked the european medicines agency to conduct a full retrospective investigation into the ways in which this medicinal product was used over 20 years. the figures and the documentation referred to in the french report clearly indicate that by far the highest use of this medicinal product was in france.
madam president, commissioner, let us broaden the debate, since the case of the mediator is only the visible part of the iceberg that raises many other questions. for example, why can any medicine, considered potentially dangerous and even deadly, which has been withdrawn from the market in some member states, continue to circulate freely within the european union? should we not reflect on the role and effectiveness of the european medicines agency, since its conclusions are not binding on the member states?
member of the commission. − in effect, the procedures that were in force at the time of the historic events that i recounted in my answer were as i stated: there was a clear separation between member states and the european authority – a separation that is still in fact in force and jealously guarded by member states. in effect that is why, over time, we feel that we should be strengthening our pharmacovigilance processes and procedures. i must say that, in 2004, a step forward was taken on revising the pharmacovigilance procedures and processes that we already have, and also in the last pharmacovigilance agreement. we now have a lot of ‘stoppers’ and it is now also possible for other action to be taken at european level, too, to ensure that anything that is withdrawn from any market is notified and action can be taken upon it. this was not the case before. so this is the situation today. i have instructed my services to conduct a stress test now, including on the new pharmacovigilance processes and procedures put in place after our last agreement. they are taking médiator as a case study to see whether something like médiator could still happen with the latest pharmacovigilance processes. we will make sure that if we do find any vacuums, bottlenecks or spaces where action will not be taken in these cases, we will come back to you and try to correct the situation.
member of the commission. − apple announced today that it will offer digital subscriptions to newspapers and magazines on ipad devices exclusively through applications (apps) sold via its online store. publishers will still be able to offer online subscriptions through their websites or by other means but they will no longer be able to process the subscription via an app on an iphone using apple as an intermediary. whether apple’s behaviour constitutes a violation of the eu competition rules depends on a range of factual, legal and economic elements. it requires inter alia that apple holds a dominant position in the relevant market. the boundaries of such relevant markets are not clear, as the sector is still relatively new and evolving and as there are also several comparable platforms and devices that provide similar functionalities. some of which are supported by online application stores as the consumer demand for electronic and/or print magazines is unclear and evolving. once the market has been properly identified, the question of dominance would have to be assessed. dominance has been defined by the european court of justice as a position of economic strength enjoyed by an undertaking which enables it to hinder the maintenance of effective competition on the relevant market by allowing it to behave to an appreciable extent independently of its competitors and customers and ultimately of consumers. the commission notes in particular that alternative application platforms exist and several companies have recently launched, or are expecting to launch in the near future, a number of devices similar in terms of functionality to the ipad. the commission is following the developments regarding apple’s commercial policies and is in close contact with the national competition authorities.
apple has indeed announced this afternoon that it intends to offer a new model to subscribers, but it is clear that it intends to use its position - whether dominant or not - in the market to gain access to the customer information available to publishers. this could be very damaging in the long term for publishers in europe, and also damaging for media pluralism. i would therefore ask you whether you are prepared to act, whether you are in a dominant position or not, and if you wish to take any initiative, whether you can make clear what timing you have in mind. is it a matter of weeks or months before the commission takes any initiative in this area?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, you know that the greens are strong supporters of a more integrated europe in order to be able to ensure sustainable development for our citizens, but also in order to ensure the possibility of europe to mean something on this planet in the 21st century. notre confiance, aujourd'hui, est sévèrement affectée par un acte que vous avez pris – l'examen annuel de croissance – parce que vous avez révélé là un parti pris idéologique qui n'a rien à voir avec les faits, mais qui a tout à voir avec des choix idéologiques. votre recommandation, quelle est–elle? c'est de couper dans les dépenses publiques! ce ne sont pas des finances publiques soutenables que de couper dans les dépenses. on ne parle pas de recettes. et c'est de flexibiliser, réformer – vous allez dire – les marchés du travail, c'est–à–dire faire clairement de la flexisécurité sans la sécurité. vous allez me dire qu'il faut agir ainsi pour que l'économie puisse repartir. mais il n'y a pas que cela! il y a aussi les mesures pour le secteur financier. parlons–en, parce que cela illustre bien le deux poids et deux mesures. pour les mesures sur les salaires ou sur les dépenses publiques, que dites–vous? qu'il faut frapper vite et qu'il faut frapper fort. pour le secteur financier, en revanche, vous dites qu'il faut étudier, voir l'impact, réfléchir et, surtout, qu'il faudra des périodes de transition. ainsi, pour la gouvernance économique et pour les assainissements budgétaires, vous dites tout de suite: 1er janvier 2011–1er janvier 2012. pour les banques, ce sera le 1er janvier 2019, tout comme si l'adaptation des marchés du travail ou le rétablissement des finances publiques sur des bases soutenables ne nécessitaient pas une étude ou une période de transition. et europe 2020 dans tout ça allez-vous me dire? c'est quand même le sujet et ce n'est pas ce dont vous me parlez. europe 2020, monsieur le commissaire, messieurs du conseil, est rendu tout simplement impossible par les recommandations que vous faites dans le cadre de l'examen annuel de croissance. on se paie notre tête quand on fait semblant qu'il est possible de mener des politiques d'investissement qui sont nécessaires dans la recherche, dans l'éducation, dans la réduction de la pauvreté, dans la lutte contre le changement climatique et pour l'emploi en menant les politiques que vous recommandez. c'est un mensonge et je pense que ce débat est du pur théâtre.
a thorough review of immigration policies in most member states and the eu is essential to achieve the europe 2020 employment chapter. as the commission's own proposal states, the priorities include increasing labour force participation, reducing structural unemployment, developing a skilled workforce that meets the needs of the labour market, lifelong learning, etc. the mass import of labour from outside the european union is short-sighted and contrary to the priorities i have just mentioned. there are about 25 million unemployed in the european union. let us start by helping those people to work first, instead of appealing again to mass immigration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a vicious circle and we must learn to see that in the long run it does no one any good. it is high time that a cost-benefit analysis of immigration from outside the eu was carried out. this aspect should also be part of the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states.
when i hear the word eurobonds, i always get a little sick, but okay, it's a common word here. most employment comes from economic growth and a healthy private sector. there is no alternative to that. governments do not create jobs and are not job creators. the great problem in europe is the lack of competitiveness. the difference between germany and southern europe is almost 35%. the gap is very big. mrs merkel has therefore also spoken of a competitiveness pact. i agree with that in itself. the lisbon process was actually an idea, but little of it has been realised. i would like to draw attention to one point, however, namely the harmonization of corporation tax. that's a very bad idea. it is also a very french idea, and we should not have that, nor should an economic government. it's a job killer, you know? last week, a study by the oecd showed once again - a study in 21 countries - that if we want more jobs in europe, we need lower corporate taxation. we have to look at these things, because this european parliament does not create jobs.
in writing. the europe 2020 strategy is ambitious, particularly in terms of employment, and the implementation of the employment guidelines is helping to achieve it. its objectives are fundamental, especially to enable pensions to be financed and to build a european social model based on welfare. the elements which could form the basis of this social model have been called into question by the proposals of mrs merkel and mr sarkozy. one of the proposals in the competitiveness pact is the abolition of automatic indexation of wages to inflation. the argument is that this would increase competitiveness and hence employment. there is no evidence that this reasoning is automatically true. the abolition of automatic indexation could even create in some cases phenomena of acceleration of inflation, which nobody wants. there are many other ways of fighting for employment, such as strategic investments or training in sectors of the future. the indexation of wages and social benefits is a well understood instrument by some countries to reduce the risk of poverty among workers, a growing phenomenon in europe. this will help to achieve another eu target for 2020: 20 million fewer poor people.
i'd just like to make a suggestion. i notice that many of my colleagues go well beyond their speaking time, sometimes by as much as 30 seconds. i would ask that the observance of the speaking time be more strictly enforced. you can do that with me, of course.
i voted against the report, despite being in favour of croatia's accession to the european union. the problem is that this report reads like one big description of the corruption problems that exist in croatia today and yet they are adamant about finalising the negotiations in the coming months. we should learn from the mistakes of the past. in 2007, romania and bulgaria were admitted, knowing that they did not meet the conditions and that there was a very big problem of corruption. i therefore think it is totally inappropriate and unacceptable to fix a date now, when we know that there are still so many major problems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because its objective is to combat counterfeit medicines in the legal supply chain at eu level without hampering the functioning of the internal market in medicines. for example, by introducing obligations for actors in the distribution chain; prohibiting the players between the original manufacturer and the last player in the distribution chain (usually the pharmacist) or the end user (physician/patient) from tampering (i.e. removing, changing or covering) with the safety features on the packaging; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. as president jacques chirac said, 'the most intolerable inequality is inequality in health'. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which is aimed at health and therefore consumer protection. counterfeit drugs have long been a neglected scourge. while developing countries are an obvious target, because the price of legal medicines is often out of reach for most people and controls are ineffective or non-existent, counterfeit medicines are increasingly found in the eu, particularly via the internet. it's a growing threat to public health, to public safety, all over the world. the eu must remain vigilant and vigorously pursue a proactive policy against this unacceptable unveiling. its economic implications are currently difficult to quantify, as production has become industrialised. it is a moral problem, an ethical problem that undermines the credibility and efficiency of health systems. as such, the fight against counterfeit medicines must be a matter of conscience for political leaders worldwide.
in writing. after branded products and cigarettes, counterfeiting has taken over the pharmaceutical market, and the seven million medicinal products seized each year represent about 5% of all counterfeits. the challenge for european authorities, both judicial and customs, is enormous: to restore the supply chains and to curb this trade, which endangers the lives of millions of people worldwide. i therefore welcome the agreement reached between parliament and the council establishing a common legal framework for the 27 member states to limit the risk of falsification of medicines. among the main advances i would like to mention: the principle of cascading responsibility covering all actors in the chain, manufacturing authorization holders, wholesalers, brokers, etc.; the compulsory indication on the packaging of prescription medicines of a safety device (serial number or stamp); the introduction of stricter rules on inspections in cooperation with the european medicines agency; and the establishment of a list of entities authorised to carry out distance sales. in conclusion, this is important legislation, but it will require even more international cooperation and cyber-controls to eradicate fake viagra, slimming products, skin creams, etc., available with a simple click of the mouse.
in writing. − there is a worrying increase in the number of falsified medicines in the eu. they may contain inferior, adulterated or incorrectly dosed active or inactive ingredients or no active ingredients at all, and thus pose a serious threat to the patient. the direct and indirect social costs of non-action to business are certainly more than eur 10 billion. i support this agreement with the green group in the ep. it updates existing rules and introduces safety features to guarantee the identification, authentication and traceability of the medicinal product, while also regulating the sale of medicinal products via the internet. this is one of the main routes by which counterfeit medicines enter the european market. it is estimated that over 50% of medicines bought on the internet from sites that do not provide their actual physical address are counterfeit. therefore, a distinction should be made between legal mail order or internet pharmacies and the illegal distribution chain, which includes uncontrolled internet purchases. a legal mail order pharmacy should be associated with a legally registered pharmacy, ensuring that the legal mail order pharmacy complies with all the legal requirements applicable to pharmacies in the member state in which they are legally established.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises make a fundamental contribution to growth, social cohesion and play a crucial role in maintaining and expanding employment. however, the difficulty for smes to access finance is a major obstacle to their creation and growth, and the current economic crisis has exacerbated this problem. banks are increasingly reluctant to finance high-risk business ventures, innovative products or business transfers. the functioning of sme financing arrangements should therefore be strengthened, the continued implementation of guarantee instruments supported and the financing of innovative financial instruments increased. companies must have better access to financial instruments based on equity contributions. the complexity of financial regulations and the burden of bureaucracy also constitute a brake on the development of smes and it is therefore important to remove administrative barriers and to propose simpler and less costly regulations and guidelines.
in writing. − the demographic shift towards an ageing society, combined with the economic and financial crisis-induced setbacks in economic growth, public finances and financial markets, require an adjustment in pension policy. this adjustment is consistent with the completion of the european internal market and the europe 2020 objectives on employment and the sustainability of public finances. but above all i welcome this proposal because it provides for more efficient supply systems which are to be both sustainable and safe. i firmly believe that pension systems should not only provide older eu citizens with a decent life, but also be the reward for a lifetime of work. if we want european citizens to be motivated to work and open to cross-border activities in the future, it is important to offer them a reasonable and sustainable retirement income today, which is harmonised at european level. however, the responsibility for pension systems remains with the member states, which means that pension systems are primarily the responsibility of the member states and therefore only a coordinating guide should be given to the member states at european level. in this context, particular attention should be paid to the principle of solidarity between generations and the principle of national solidarity. even in the face of subsidiarity, all pension systems should remain 'exportable' for citizens.
in writing. according to the commissioner for employment, social affairs and inclusion, lászló andor, the number of pensioners will double by 2060 compared to the working population able to finance pensions. it is therefore urgent to look at the future of pension systems. although this is a matter for the member states, it should not prevent the european union from assisting the member states in their reflection on how to ensure that european citizens have an adequate, stable and sustainable pension system. the principle of free movement of persons is complemented by the possibility of obtaining a sufficient and appropriate pension in an eu member state. the economic and monetary crisis has demonstrated the need for an integrated approach, covering both economic and financial aspects as well as demographic and social aspects.
in writing. sustaining pension schemes is one of the major challenges facing the political class if it is to maintain the common good and social peace. and even though european competence in this area is limited, it was important that the european parliament gave its opinion in the follow-up to the green paper launched by the commission. this was done with the adoption of the very comprehensive oomen-ruijten report, which confirms the need for pension reform in view of the unfavourable evolution of the ratio of workers to pensioners. the resolution is in line with the recent eurobarometer survey showing the wisdom and maturity of european citizens, 73% of whom believe that they will have to work longer or save more for their old age. the prevailing idea of extending working life beyond 65 years is certainly appreciated by the population in different ways, but, for better or for worse, other levers will necessarily have to be activated. in my own country, belgium, where the employment rate of older workers is among the lowest in the european union, there is an urgent need to encourage older workers to stay longer in the labour market.
in writing. - ageing is on the rise, the crisis is forcing member states to cut back. but ageing must not lead to a new european debt crisis. and the member states that are cutting back must not do so rashly. the resolution stresses that the first pillar of the pension system is the most important. this implies a healthy national budget balance. it goes without saying that a steady income is a guarantee against falling into poverty. i also welcome the recognition of pension rights for women and the emphasis on greater gender equality, with the fact that older people should not be discriminated against in the labour market. the resolution also gives due consideration to the portability of accumulated pension rights. no one works for the same company or even in their own country for the rest of their life. it is fundamental in a united europe that such rights can be transferred. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's social security system is fully functional.
in writing. i welcome the progress made by croatia in its accession process to the european union, including the amendment of the constitution, the reform of the judiciary, freedom of the press, the protection of minorities and closer cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. i therefore fully support the 2010 progress report on croatia. the prospect of eu membership is a powerful incentive for other countries in the western balkan region on the path to european integration to pursue the necessary political, economic and legislative reforms and to consolidate peace, strengthen stability and foster coexistence and reconciliation in the region. however, the croatian authorities still face obstacles and challenges such as the fight against corruption, economic recovery, the resolution of bilateral disputes with neighbouring countries and very low employment rates. croatia should therefore be invited to pursue the necessary reforms in a determined manner in order to be able to meet the final criteria and conclude the negotiations.
madam president, commissioner, minister, one figure, one observation and three lines of action. the figure is that every time food prices rise by 1%, 16 million people worldwide are plunged into extreme poverty. one conclusion: although volatility cannot be avoided, particularly in agricultural markets, extreme volatility is not inevitable and can be combated, albeit with difficulty. the first is to give priority to subsistence agriculture and regional food markets in development policy. secondly, the need for a public policy of regulation, including through the establishment of stocks and their management. thirdly, the outright prohibition of speculation in basic foodstuffs. europe must be there, at the forefront of the fight, particularly at the g20 level. what i have heard from minister martonyi, and also from commissioner cioloş, and in other places from commissioner barnier, is encouraging. president sarkozy has been very clear and we have high hopes that the french presidency will be a driving force in this direction at the g20 level.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, mr cohn-bendit and myself we were very critical of baroness ashton two weeks ago, and i see that mr severin has adapted his language slightly and is speaking more boldly. this intervention was absolutely necessary two weeks ago because the european union had taken a wishy-washy attitude. it is clear that the situation in egypt demands three things: first of all, the commission has to come forward with a credible and global plan for tunisia and for egypt – how to strengthen civil society, what to do to fight corruption, how to help in building democratic institutions, how to create an independent justice system and how to help economic construction and development. these are questions not of millions, commissioner, but of billions. i think you will have to come forward as fast as possible with a global plan. secondly, yesterday our group had a videoconference with dr ayman nour, one of the leading opposition leaders in egypt, and there are a number of concerns. in all this debate in egypt on the change of the constitution, i can tell you that the secular democratic political parties are not involved for the moment and that is a message to give. secondly, to deal with this in two months and to organise elections in two months is a non-starter, because it means that we will not have normal political parties there participating in this. then there is the whole question of the proportional representation or an individual representation system there. i sent a message to high representative ashton to ask that, in her contacts on monday, she raise these three questions that are fundamental for a real democratic society in egypt in the near future. i think that parliament should back her in these three claims and hope that she expressed these three elements, these three concerns, in her contacts in egypt. thirdly, commissioner, this is not the end. we see things happening in bahrain, in yemen, in algeria, in iran, in libya, in morocco and in kuwait. what we also need now is a bold message from the high representative on what is happening in these countries; we should not wait until a number of things have happened. on these issues we also need a clear communication from the commission, and mainly from baroness ashton, on what is happening in these countries, expressing our support for the masses in those countries.
mubarak is gone, but that can only be a stopgap. many other measures are needed, and the army, which now has the reins, must provide a credible guide to the transition process that has begun. that means lifting the state of siege, involving all democratic forces in the steps that are now being taken. the drafting of a new constitution is an important first test. the european union, for its part, must use all possible means, direct and indirect, to accompany this process. that means, among other things, helping democratic parties and civil society to develop. that also means freezing the funds of those who have misused public funds. and of course - and this is much more difficult and will require more work - to provide a package of economic support measures, because the transition will only be truly successful if the economy is also boosted. finally, we do find that the democratic clauses that exist, although they do exist but are not applied, have not produced any results. that will therefore have to be taken into account in the evaluation.
i think we all agree that it is a good thing that the hungarian government is today removing all doubts, as if there were no free press in budapest and a lack of media pluralism. fortunately, this formal commitment to the european commission that the new media law will be adapted and brought explicitly into line with european fundamental rights removes that ambiguity. it is only a pity, ladies and gentlemen, that a debate on media pluralism in this house always ends up in national party politics. i think we should get rid of that for good. and that said, i think, commissioner, that your new initiative to set up a working group on media pluralism is an excellent thing and one which we as a parliament will of course be very happy to support and follow up. it is a great opportunity to finally look at the bottom of things, to look at the substance of the matter, media pluralism apart from national emotions. it is a good initiative to provide an objective view of the media landscape in the european union. let me make one thing clear in closing: i think that a european legislative initiative to regulate the media, as some in this house will be asking for tomorrow, is the wrong way to go, and i think you would agree with us on that point, commissioner.
in writing. as khaled hroub wrote, the arab spring showed that "freedom and dignity are the common aspirations of all humanity, all nations and peoples". we must not forget that the first demands of the people who revolted were social: the citizens of egypt, like the citizens of tunisia, are demanding a better distribution of wealth as well as a future. what drives people to change their living conditions is economic, social and political logic. they want a "just state", a democratic one, in which wealth is equitably distributed, in which they have access to health and education. the answer cannot be found in the organization of elections, more or less hastily, whereas the old opposition is very little organized. the political rights of citizens must be guaranteed, as well as their economic and social rights. the european response must therefore be to build democracy but also to develop the economy, in the service of the greatest number. the eu should have a genuine policy to support democracy and play a leading role in this area.
in writing. the rule of law is indeed under threat in russia. we could paraphrase marie mendras by saying that we are witnessing a reversal of history. since the end of the yeltsin era, we have seen a policy of weakening all public institutions. even if there is a semblance of legality, we have stifled compliance with the law by too many regulations. the khodorkovsky and lebedev trials are typical examples of this: the appearance of the law is preserved, but its primary function is diverted. economic growth will not allow the rule of law. economy for the sake of economy leads to abuse, exploitation and partisan interests. wealth must be seen as a symbol of freedom, a means of promoting collective progress and the development of individuals. the market economy cannot be virtuous in the absence of a just state, that is to say a state which fully and fairly fulfils its natural missions, a state capable of guaranteeing impartial access to all citizens to all fundamental rights (such as access to education, health, justice, culture, administration and the basic necessities of life).
in writing. - amendment no 2 is intended to indicate that the commission should take greater account of the role of mobility and transport in this strategy. not only the contribution to co2 reduction, but also the production and development location of europe must be preserved in the transport sector. this includes increased investment in research and effective co-modality in the creation of transeuropean networks.
in writing. food prices have reached historic highs. this increase has led to food insecurity for millions of people, destabilized the world economy, and led to riots and social movements. the international community has committed itself to halving world hunger by 2015 as part of the mdgs. ensuring that every human being has adequate and regular food is not only a moral imperative, it is the fulfillment of a fundamental human right. this inalienable and universal right was affirmed at the acp-eu jpa plenary session in kinshasa last december. while the commission must honour its commitments to the developing countries and the least developed countries, it must also promote a strong and sustainable cap that is responsive to the needs of european farmers. i share the concerns of the latter, who, because of the fall in incomes due to rising production costs and price volatility, are not benefiting from the increase in food prices. effective and coordinated action is needed to address these problems. we cannot accept opulence and waste when the tragedy of hunger is growing.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the increase in food prices because no one can be satisfied with the situation which has prevailed for months and which affects primarily small farmers and consumers. grain prices have even surpassed the 2008 highs, when high food prices caused unrest in countries such as haiti and egypt. if the responses must be primarily global and coordinated with the fao, they must be extended to the european level where price stability is an objective to be achieved. i therefore welcome the adoption of sensible proposals such as reducing food waste and the request to the commission to restrict trading in food commodity derivatives to investors with a direct link to agricultural markets. all these measures are in support of a strong and sustainable european agriculture. commissioner cioloş was just reminding us yesterday that europe is not here to subsidize agrofuels, but to give priority to the use of arable land for food production, a logic that is more elementary than that!
in writing. - food security policy is defence policy par excellence. any country that fails to provide its people with safe and affordable food and its farmers with a reasonable standard of living is headed for instability and food riots. the right to food is a basic and fundamental human right. the text before us rightly emphasizes the need for a multidimensional approach. ensuring food safety has links with more effective action to combat climate change, with improved development aid, with the development of other trade structures, with greater transparency in commodity markets and with measures to combat speculation. i would have liked to see the text strengthened even further, by calling for the creation of an independent global agency to strictly regulate speculation in food commodities. the greens also wanted to point out the necessary actions to reduce food waste: twenty to 30 percent of crops are already lost during sowing and harvesting. in developing countries, half the crop rots because it is not stored or transported. consumers and distributors in developed countries throw up to 40 percent of food products untouched into the trash. unacceptable and unethical! finally, i do not think that food should be part of the wto debate. food can never be a commodity. i will never!
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this joint resolution which highlights the main factors behind the current surge in food prices, namely the rise in oil prices, the growing production of biofuels which is eating up huge areas of agricultural land, the increasing frequency of climate disasters and speculation on the markets. the question is no longer to provide food at the best price, but to make the most of it. according to the fao, food prices reached a historic high in january, and it is estimated that when food prices rise by 1%, the nutrition of an additional 16 million people is at risk. so the rising prices are becoming a huge challenge for developing countries, which already spend almost three quarters of their income on basic foodstuffs. we therefore fear a social and political situation even more dramatic than during the "hunger riots" of 2008. europe has a fundamental role to play in ensuring global food security. let us hope that the g20 ministers, who will meet in paris next june, will find solutions to combat the volatility of food prices.
author. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of february new clashes have broken out between the cambodian armed forces and the thai armed forces on the border near the preah vihear temple, the surrounding area of which is claimed by both countries. there are casualties on both sides and more than 3,000 residents near the fighting zone have been evacuated. in 1962, based on french historical maps, the international court of justice of the un recognized cambodia's rights to the preah vihear temple and the adjacent territory. however, thailand has never accepted this decision. in addition, some areas of the border were not demarcated, which already caused several armed incidents in 2008 and 2009. in 2008, the temple's inclusion on unesco's world heritage list also provoked outrage from thai nationalists. although a memorandum of understanding on the demarcation of borders was signed in 2000, the nationalists of the thai pad are calling for its revocation as it is considered too favorable to cambodia. i would like to highlight in particular the action taken by indonesia, the current chairman of asean, which has offered to play the role of mediator in this conflict. on monday, the un also urged the two countries to observe a permanent ceasefire but did not plan to send peacekeepers to the area. i hope that these two countries can finally settle the question of this territory peacefully and stop taking thousands of people who want to live in peace hostage.
for the greens/efa group mr president, why are we talking about innovative resources? did we suddenly get rabies from the taxis? of course not! as you know, we must put public finances back on a sustainable footing, which means responsible spending, of course, but it also means fair, efficient and sustainable revenue, and as you know, the tax systems that are in place in europe today do not meet these criteria. they do not guarantee governments the means to carry out their public service missions: we think of education, research and social cohesion. they have not been able to stem the growth of inequality in europe and they continue to encourage activities that are destructive of both the environment and social cohesion. whether it is a question of taxing the financial industry, obtaining a fair contribution from large companies, implementing a climate-energy contribution or effectively combating tax fraud and evasion, you know that only at european level can we put in place effective solutions. action at member state level has become ineffective. we are tired of hearing that all this is impossible, that unanimity is needed. what do you want? it's too complicated. without joint action, it will not be ten years before any member state of the european union is able to return to sustainable public finances. what is on the table in economic governance, since that is what it is all about, is to say to the member states: 'cut off your spending arm by tying your other arm, the revenue arm, behind your back', and this is what is called a competitiveness pact. i'd like to see you fight with one arm cut off and one arm tied. i believe that the podimata report opens up avenues which will indeed make it possible to answer the tax question and i therefore hope that this parliament will be able to adopt it.
in writing. president, ladies and gentlemen, today the european parliament is sending a strong signal to the g20, but above all to the european heads of state and government. we are and will remain in favour of the introduction of a financial transaction tax at global level, but if that is not feasible in the short term, then the eu must take responsibility for it. we expect the commission to come forward with a study and a concrete legislative proposal shortly thereafter. a ftt is a perfect instrument against speculation on the markets and for financing global collective goods. but it can also be an effective means of supporting effective economic recovery policies in europe. i would add that those who always say that the european integration project is an anti-social project should take a step back from today, because - to quote oxfam - 'today the european parliament sets the world standard by insisting on a european robin hood tax'.
mr president, are we prepared in europe to deal with a pandemic? the answer is yes, but there's a "no". the 2009-2010 h1n1 influenza outbreak showed us that each member state responded on its own, without much coherence or even solidarity. as a fictitious rapporteur on this matter, i think we should have made these observations but above all we should have gone further, be constructive and practical for our citizens who, it must be said, and this is what seems to me the most damaging, have probably lost a little faith in public health messages. the report by mrs rivasi, which will be voted on tomorrow, takes account of these fundamental priorities, which include systematically strengthening cooperation between member states, better coordination with the european health institutions, clarifying the roles of european health risk management structures, and evaluating the vaccination and communication strategies implemented in the member states. so this is a good report, and i commend the rapporteur, but of course we must not leave it as a dead letter. it is the responsibility of our member states, which retain most of the powers in this area, and it is therefore a real responsibility towards our citizens.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mr papastamkos, on the quality of his report, in which he recalls the basic criteria which should guide the negotiators of the european union, and in which he stresses that the non-trade aspects should be better integrated into the negotiations. similarly, we can no longer accept that our farmers, who are bound by very strict environmental and health standards - as has just been mentioned - in particular in the areas of production hygiene, sustainable production and animal welfare, are sacrificed on the altar of international trade, victims of unfair competition and distortions of competition in relation to third countries which penetrate the european market with products which do not always comply with the internal production standards of the european union. i also ask the commission and parliament to be extremely vigilant, particularly with regard to the mercosur agreements, which clearly put european livestock farming, but also all agriculture and its production of public goods at risk - as the rapporteur has also pointed out - for which the market obviously provides no remuneration.
mr president, first of all, i too would like to thank and congratulate mr häusling on his important report, although i am disappointed with the final version, but there is nothing we can do about it. that is why, like him, i abstained in the final vote in committee. i regret that the content of the report has been distorted by the inclusion of the question of zero tolerance. the request for a relaxation of the import of unauthorised gmos does not solve the problem of protein deficiency in the european union and should not have been introduced here. on the other hand, we must urgently address the considerable decline in the production of protein in the union and reduce our already alarming dependence on imports of plant protein. i too would like to challenge the blair house agreements, whose market-oriented objectives have contributed to extreme price volatility. moreover, these agreements are in complete contradiction with the kyoto protocol and its objectives concerning global warming. finally, we need to include protein crops in the crop rotation cycle in the future as part of a sound and responsible management of the soil.
mr president, i was asked last week by several voters in flanders how it is possible that we as members of the european parliament have been allocated only 1,500 euros a month to recruit additional staff, at a time when there are economic problems, when there is uncertainty, when people have to wear their seat belts. it's at a time like this that we're going to have to spend more. the questions and comments of the voters are entirely justified. we as the european union should set the example. we should be putting the cart before the horse and at that very moment we regret to have to say that this fernandes report is a bit of a missed opportunity. the call for responsibility and budgetary restraint is made, and i think it is right. in fact, recital a speaks of - and i quote - 'strict control procedures to achieve cuts'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are, of course, a number of things - i am thinking of the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, the travel between brussels and strasbourg, which costs 200 million euros a year. i challenge the commission and the council, but also parliament, to make an exercise and to put all these things on the table and see where savings can be made and to turn this into an effective plan to discuss a number of issues and to make cuts.
madam president, i would first of all like to commend the work of my colleagues mariya nedelcheva and rovana plumb. on this symbolic day of the 100th anniversary of international women's day, i could almost give the same speech as last year, as long as the fighting is still going on. it is true that women are better able to withstand the crisis in terms of job losses. as regards the fight against violence against women, we expect the commission to make its intentions known, to accede to our request to establish a european year on this theme and to propose a strategy. it will not be long, they told me, and i rejoice. equal pay is unfortunately not yet a reality despite the many efforts of some member states and the european commission in particular. unfortunately, paternity leave has been refused by the member states despite a good mobilization of this parliament and the right to abortion is still not recognized in four member states of the union and is being called into question in others. i welcome the new belgian law on quotas for women in companies and on boards of directors, and the very proactive approach taken by mrs reding and our president buzek in this matter, including in the press across the atlantic. finally, we should welcome the fact that in 100 years we have made 50% of the way towards gender equality through european and national legislation. let's keep the course so that it doesn't take another 100 years to achieve real gender equality.
madam president, madam lulling, while i might seem very proud that you have thanked the few men present in this debate, since i am one of the few male members of the committee on women's rights, i might be offended if you put me in the same bag as mr bloom. i'd like to know if you're making a distinction between mr. bloom and myself or if i should regret that you're lumping us both into the same fight because we obviously have radically opposite positions.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this report for which i had been appointed fictitious rapporteur for the epp. for the 500 million or so citizens we represent, we had to learn from this crisis to be able to respond better in the future to a possible new pandemic threat. the text voted yesterday is a very good compromise in terms of health cooperation, independence and transparency. the failure of genuine health cooperation between member states required a constructive and practical approach, involving the following actions. strengthened cooperation between member states and better coordination between member states and european institutions to ensure a more effective response to future pandemics. the clarification of the roles of the european health risk management structures. the request for a review by who of the definition of criteria for triggering a global pandemic alert. evaluation of the vaccination and communication strategies implemented in the member states to better restore citizens' confidence. the creation of a mechanism for collective procurement of vaccines by member states to avoid disparities. publication of declarations of interest of experts advising european public health authorities to avoid any conflict of interest.
in writing. − the handling of the h1n1 influenza, declared a pandemic by the world health organisation, in 2009 and 2010 was not transparent. this is addressed in the 'h1n1 management assessment report'. i particularly welcome this report because it provides for full transparency of medicines used in the event of a medical emergency and a pandemic. the member states have acted alone in ordering and using the vaccines. in this context, it is important to evaluate the strategy for the increase of vaccines and to seek a joint procurement of vaccines by member states in the future. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one.
in writing. some do not support a financial transaction tax (ftt) at european level as it would create distortions of competition in financial markets to the detriment of europe. i don't think a tax of just 0.01% on these transactions will scare investors away from the world's largest financial market. if we are to count on the g20 to take this initiative at the global level, we will wait forever... i am therefore pleased that the amendment tabled by the s&d group for this ttf at european level has been adopted. it would create a resource estimated at 200 billion a year which would enable the union to finance its budget properly, even though some members of the council are already announcing their intention to restrict it, despite the added value of european spending. the crisis, which was caused by financial market players, is used as an argument by our right-wing leaders to call for budget cuts, especially in social spending. the european citizens would therefore be paying for faults that are not their own. this ttf would reintroduce social justice in european decisions, by consolidating public finances at the expense of those that have weakened them. so the timing was very timely.
in writing. i welcome this vote on the financial transaction tax because the european parliament calls on the union to put this taxation system in place without waiting for a possible decision to this effect at world level. the european union has the largest financial sector in the world. so she has to lead the way. according to various studies, the introduction of a 0.05% tax on transactions would generate some €200 billion in annual revenue to finance recovery and development cooperation, and protect the environment, while discouraging financial speculation. i am also convinced that such a tax is necessary at international level: the union must encourage its partners to adopt regulations on financial taxes. if this tax is implemented only within the european union and not at international level, by europe's main financial competitors, the union's finances will be severely disadvantaged. i hope that a compromise can be reached on this point at the g20 under the french presidency.
in writing. the global economic and monetary crisis of 2007 revealed the major weaknesses in the regulatory and supervisory framework of the global financial system. i have been at the forefront of the fight in the ep for innovative finance by setting up a working group on the feasibility of a tax on international transactions. i am convinced that the latter would not only help to regulate the financial sector effectively by limiting purely speculative actions but would also help the poorest, especially the developing countries, and among them the least developed countries, to achieve the millennium development goals and to take the necessary measures to deal with climate change. a financial transaction tax at european level could generate a potential revenue in the union of around eur 200 billion per year and nearly usd 650 billion per year globally. if we could make coherent progress at european level by applying a tax on international financial transactions, we would maintain the strong message we sent in december 2010 when we adopted the recommendation entitled 'the financial, economic and social crisis: recommendations on measures and initiatives to be taken'.
in writing. - i voted today again in favour of the introduction of a financial transaction tax (ftt) and also agreed that if the world fails to impose an ftt, the eu should take the first step. we had to seize this momentum and curb the greed of the financial and banking sectors. the european union is the world's largest financial market and europe can play a leading role in this. a financial transaction tax can provide member states with sufficient revenue to balance their budgets and keep their economies running. in addition, as the revenue potential of a ftt of 0.05% is close to eur 200 billion in the eu and usd 650 billion worldwide, this tax could be an important part of the solution in the search for new and sustainable sources of revenue. a ftt can curb speculation and stabilise markets, create incentives for long-term investment, increase transparency by making every transaction traceable and ensure that financial actors bear their share of the costs of the crisis. the report also calls for a more detailed examination of the possibilities of issuing euro bonds and of the introduction of a carbon tax.
in writing. i was keen to support the report by edith estrela on reducing health inequalities between and within the eu member states. simply because it shows a very wide range of persistent inequalities in this area within the union. these inequalities, which are unjust, are the result of multiple economic, environmental and lifestyle factors, but also of difficulties in accessing health care, either in economic terms or in terms of the "poor distribution of medical resources" in certain territories of the union. although health policy remains (for the most part) a national competence, we meps must push our member states to continue their efforts to tackle socioeconomic inequalities and therefore disparities in health care. member states must ensure that vulnerable groups (disabled people, the elderly, migrants... and women!) can effectively benefit from equitable access to health care. the emphasis should also be on prevention and health information in coordination with civil society organisations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it stresses the need to tackle the phenomena of competition and tax fraud in the countries of the south, it considers that the automatic exchange of information in tax matters should be universally applied, it stresses the importance of the principle of country-by-country reporting for all multinational companies, it calls for the fight against the phenomenon of tax havens, beyond the insufficient action of the oecd, and it stresses the need to increase the degree of coherence of european policies in favour of development.
in writing. - the link between international trade, development and agricultural policy is undeniable. european agriculture is increasingly having difficulty exporting products to the world market, as prices are low there and production costs are higher in the eu. this continuing trend will continue to have a negative impact if no support programmes are provided for agriculture. i therefore welcome this owninitiative report, which provides for compensation for farmers if further opening up of the internal market to imports would lead to losses for farmers. the agreements negotiated by the eu with third countries are not problematic in themselves, but the sum of these agreements makes it difficult to maintain high standards in the eu. the commission's owninitiative report therefore calls for greater coherence between the eu's agricultural policy and its common commercial policy. in this context, i support the call for the commission to carry out an impact assessment for trade agreements and to publish it before the start of negotiations.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of my colleague papastamkos' report, which recalls the basic criteria that should guide the eu negotiators and in which he stresses that non-trade aspects should be better integrated into the negotiations. similarly, we can no longer accept that our farmers, who must comply with very strict environmental and health standards (in particular in terms of production hygiene, sustainable production or animal welfare), are sacrificed on the altar of international trade, victims of unfair competition and shameful distortions of competition in the face of third countries that penetrate the european market with impunity with products that do not comply with the production conditions imposed by the union. i also ask the commission and the european parliament to be extremely vigilant, particularly with regard to the mercosur agreements, which clearly endanger european livestock farming.
in writing. - the initial report by the rapporteur was better than the text now adopted. that is why i voted against the final text. the commission's request to ensure unhindered supply of soya to the eu market by finding a technical solution to the presence of low levels of gmos in protein crops intended for animal feed is clearly a major victory for the intensive farming lobby. the green group calls for the maximum development of eu own production of protein crops. such policies are good for farmers' incomes and make a substantial contribution to combating climate change, preserving biodiversity and soil fertility. the introduction of a mechanism to monitor the origin of imported protein crops, checking the sustainability of the agricultural practices applied in the country of origin, is crucial. regular on-the-spot checks are essential the discussion on the re-authorisation of processed animal protein from slaughterhouse waste for the production of pig and poultry feed should only be conducted in terms of (food) safety and public health. the ban on intra-species reuse and forced cannibalism, as well as sound controls in the animal feed sector and the correct application of existing eu rules, are crucial.
in writing. i thank my colleague mr häusling for his important report, although i am disappointed with the final version, which is why i, like the rapporteur, voted against the report in the end. i am sorry that the report has been distorted by the inclusion of the zero tolerance issue. the request for a relaxation of the import of unauthorised gmos does not solve the problem of protein shortages in the european union and should not have been discussed. on the other hand, we must urgently address the considerable decline in the production of protein crops in the union and thus reduce our already alarming dependence on imports of plant protein. i am very much against the blair house agreements, whose market-oriented objectives have contributed to extreme price volatility. moreover, these agreements are in complete contradiction with the kyoto protocol and its objectives regarding global warming. we need, in the future, as part of the rational and responsible management of the soil, to integrate protein plants into the crop rotation cycle.
in writing. on 8 march 2011, the centenary of women's day, parliament was due to adopt this report on equality between women and men in the union for 2011 by a large majority! although the principle of gender equality is enshrined in the treaty and the charter of fundamental rights, it is clear that it remains an unrealized objective. whether in terms of employment, where women occupy precarious positions far more than men, in terms of pay, since women with equal qualifications earn on average 18% less than men, or in terms of career prospects, women are still stuck by the famous glass ceiling. women are also penalized when they have children! the list of grievances is long. the report voted on today contains concrete answers, such as the introduction of binding objectives for the member states and sanctions in the event of non-compliance, the introduction of quotas (a necessary evil) to make a little more of an attempt at equality. so that one day there will be no need for more than half the world's population to devote a specific day each year to it.
in writing. equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the european union. unfortunately, there is still a lot of inequality between women and men today. in addition, the financial, economic and social crisis we are experiencing has had a severe impact on women in terms of their working conditions, access to employment, place in society and pay. gender equality in employment must become a reality. the equality policies must be maintained and the budgets for them cannot be reduced. equality between men and women must also be reflected in all policies with concrete and sustainable measures, particularly in the field of education, training and vocational guidance. women must also play an important role in decision-making circles, whether in boards of directors or in political positions. finally, i cannot ignore the terrible scourge of physical, psychological and sexual violence against women. these heinous crimes must be fought with all our energy, no matter how serious they are.
in writing. although women's poverty has been a longstanding reality, the economic, financial and social crisis has sharply accentuated this situation and we are witnessing a feminization of poverty. poverty is one of the areas where gender gaps persist. the integration of women into the labour market is a means of combating poverty and social exclusion. it should be noted that equal pay, access to positions of responsibility and the granting of individual rights to pensions and social security must be promoted at the same time. violence against women, including trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation, is a serious problem that must be eradicated by all means at our disposal. this violence is all too often one of the causes of women's poverty as a result of health problems or job loss. a strong commitment to gender equality and the fight against social exclusion, through specific and sustainable actions with adequate financial resources, should be maintained at both european and national levels.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, first of all, i think it is still fair to say that after years of not accepting the idea of economic union, we are finally accepting the idea of economic union alongside monetary union, which is still a step forward - except for mr farage, of course - but for everyone else it is still a step forward. however, madam president, i think the term used is wrong. what does "covenant" mean? a pact is an agreement between states. we don't need an interstate agreement. we need a community act, an initiative at the level of the european union and not a pact between the member states, which is intergovernmental in nature. so the term is not well used, the word is wrong. second, the method. there's no need for anything at the intergovernmental level. intergovernmentalism has never worked in the european union. the lisbon strategy was an intergovernmental strategy and it failed. the stability pact, when germany and france failed to comply with its rules in 2003-2004, proved that the intergovernmental method was not the right one. we must use the community method. thirdly, i believe that what is on the table, mr president of the commission, is not enough or is rather directed towards very specific measures. the competitiveness pact between mrs merkel and mr sarkozy consists of six specific measures. for example, in the matter of pensions, it is the age of retirement, and the pension system is much more complicated than that. it is not just the age of retirement, it is also the number of years of contribution, the pre-retirement schemes, whether or not there is a second pillar. so what we need is not six specific measures in an intergovernmental pact, which will never exist or work. what is needed is broad economic governance (pension systems, labour market, wage policy, taxation policy) in the european union which is, in fact, decided by the commission and which, by a convergence code - that is the word you used - is given to the member states to apply the rules contained in the convergence code. that's what we need as soon as possible. my request is very simple. i have seen the paper of 25 february which you drew up with the president of the council. i think it is now up to the commission to prepare its own initiative. we have to do it now. you still have time in the coming weeks to prepare these community acts on economic governance and convergence and to table them on the council's table and on the european parliament's table. it will then be up to us to decide and to support you in this, but i think we are on track for the time being. in this document of 25 i have it here what i read is monitoring by the heads of state and heads of government, the concrete commitments undertaken by the heads of state and heads of government. that's not how it's gonna work. it is not the states and the prime ministers who will control themselves! it has never worked, it will not work in the future! finally - and this is my last point - i think it is also time, mr president of the commission, to present as soon as possible an initiative on a crisis mechanism for banks, not at national level, as has been suggested, but at european level. you have the right to do so, since you are the de facto guarantor of the competition rules in the european union and you have the opportunity to put forward such an initiative.
mr president, we must get rid of the term 'progress report' when we talk about the negotiations with turkey. it is a euphemism, because no fundamental progress is being made in turkey to meet the conditions for eu membership. the cyprus problem is completely blocked because the turks continue to refuse to fulfil their obligations and to maintain their illegal military occupation of the north of the island. there is no progress in the area of democratic rights either. people are persecuted for expressing their opinions, websites are blocked, christians and other non-muslims are opposed in every possible way. the commission has repeatedly replied to parliamentary questions that it is following the situation in turkey with concern, but no concrete action has been taken and the negotiations have been dragging on endlessly. it is an open secret that many of the advocates of turkish accession in the commission, in the member states and in parliament admit in private that the whole idea is a disaster. so let us stop deceiving ourselves, stop deceiving public opinion in europe and stop deceiving the turks, and let us finally stop these negotiations with turkey.
the agenda calls for the report by mr bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on industrial policy in the era of globalisation (2010/2095 (ini)) (a7-0022/2011).
commissioner, thank you for this little piece on women in business. i suppose that this is not entirely coincidental in relation to the 8th of march, but in any case we welcome your initiatives in this area.
president. - mr langes, you will in all probability have a parliament tomorrow which is quite united in its emphasis on the importance of industrial policy. as commissioner, you must have a heart under your belt. there is a broad consensus in the various groups that industrial policy in europe has a future and that it should be supported. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you yourself have referred to the fact that we need an industry which uses less energy and less materials. i agree with that when it comes to short-term goals. we must take a much bigger leap forward in terms of longterm objectives. and steering, as you know, commissioner, is foresight. we must be bold enough to say that by 2050 we will have an energy supply that is based entirely on sustainable renewable energy, and we must start preparing industry for that now. secondly, the management of materials. so we do need to make sure that this phone is recycled better in the coming years, but in the future, we need to make sure that we make phones that are completely in a cradle-to-cradle concept, so that all the essential parts of that phone are brought back into the system to make new phones. it is the kind of general policy that needs to be developed by 2050 and that i expect the commission to take the decisions now to ensure that the industry has a clear framework to work towards.
i have noted your reference to the belgian championships, but i hope i am not making a prediction.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 march 2011 at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on: the oral question to the commission on 'ensuring europe's supply of rare earth elements', by iaonnis a. tsoukalas, paul rübig, daniel caspary, birgit schnieber-jastram, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) (o-000036/2011 b7-0017/2011), the oral question to the commission on 'ensuring europe's supply of rare earths', by lena ek, vladko panorov, fiona hallotov, marielle de sarnez, niccolò rinaldi, marietje schaake, michael theurer, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-000043/2011 b7-0020/2011), the oral question to the commission on 'une strategy for european raw materials', by b. konrad and s. ozymański, on behalf of the group of the european conservatives and reformists (o-000041/2011),
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the commission statement on the possible use of gas from alternative sources in europe (2010/2978 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think what we need now, mrs ashton, is a very clear message and statement from you and from the european council on libya. i think three things are necessary in this message. people are still being killed, so what we are saying is not neutral: what we are saying can help on the ground. firstly, we have to recognise – or at least to start the process to recognise – the national interim council as the representative of the libyan people. i think someone who is killing his own people in huge numbers has lost all legitimacy. we therefore have to start the process of recognition because that can help the opposition to win this battle against gaddafi politically. the second thing we have to do – and the second message you have to give – is that we have to step up all kinds of help. the opposition needs medicine, food, telephone lines, which are all things that we can provide. thirdly, we have to paralyse the killing power of gaddafi as quickly as possible. there is a clear consensus in libyan society: there should be no direct military intervention in libya. it is a libyan revolution and it has to remain a libyan revolution. what they need is a no-fly zone. the european union – the council and you – must ask the un as soon as possible to adopt a resolution on this, creating a no-fly zone and stopping the bombing of cities which are in the hands of the opposition. those are the three clear messages we need, and we need them now. we do not need them in one week or two weeks; we need them today, tomorrow and certainly on friday when the european council will make its first political statement on this issue. those are the three key elements that are necessary today. monsieur le président, j'aimerais utiliser cette intervention pour dire quelque chose qui est un peu large parce que ce qui se passe est naturellement historique et me paraît essentiel. j'ai la conviction qu'avec ce qui se passe aujourd'hui en libye, en tunisie, en égypte, il se présente une perspective inédite qui crée les conditions nécessaires au règlement pacifique d'un conflit qui dure maintenant depuis des décennies entre israël et la palestine. j'exhorte israël à oser maintenant les pas politiques pour engager rapidement un processus de paix avec l'état palestinien. il faut saisir à bras-le-corps l'occasion de démontrer que la dynamique de démocratisation qui est en cours dans cette région est un cadeau de l'histoire qui peut débarrasser la région et le monde d'un conflit qui aura généré tant de douleur, tant de malentendus et tant de drames. c'est un message qu'il faut envoyer aujourd'hui à cette région.
mr president, we all agree that mr gaddafi was a murderer, and i agree with mr schulz. i just wonder why, over the past years, our eu leaders have been trying to charm him. here i have a picture of mr van rompuy, recently arrived in office and already in the wrong company; and here we have mr verhofstadt receiving the dictator with military honour, which he certainly likes. here, mr cohn-bendit, we have mr berlusconi. we know that mr berlusconi likes kissing, but he is kissing entirely the wrong person. also, mrs ashton, i have here tony blair, your former boss, kissing the dictator. my point is this: i agree that you have to meet people nastier than yourself, but you do not have to kiss them. you do not have to hug them. you do not have to charm them. you have been feeding the monster that people are now fighting, and that is why they are getting killed. so i say to all these eu leaders who have kissed and hugged gaddafi, shame on you!
in writing. turkey's eventual accession seems to me to be of paramount importance if the union is to strengthen its political, strategic and economic weight at international level. the europeans have at least as much interest as the turks in bringing this country into europe. it must not be forgotten that turkey is a secular, powerful, well-armed and human-capable nation. it is access to the energy markets and routes of asia and the middle east. it is more totally reliable in nato. the turkish authorities have made some notable efforts to respect human rights. the adoption of constitutional amendments is thus a step towards the democratic standards required for accession. nevertheless, freedom of expression and, more particularly, freedom of the press, although the new laws on radio and television are positive developments, remain a source of concern. the solution of the cyprus problem, which is a sine qua non for any progress in the accession process, must also be resolved.
in writing. − i have always been in favour of turkey's accession to the eu, provided that the copenhagen criteria are met and that turkey appropriately adopts eu legislation. today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the progress report on turkey. this resolution conveys a clear and balanced political message on the eve of the parliamentary elections. turkey has made great efforts towards membership, including partial revision of the constitution, civilian control of the army and partial reform of the judiciary. however, further steps are needed. and the pace can certainly be stepped up. parliament stressed that better protection of human rights, including women's rights and the rights of minorities, was crucial, as was an independent judiciary. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. however, it is necessary to encourage turkey in the leading role it can play in the democratization process in the arab world. i therefore regret that crucial chapters in the accession negotiations are still blocked by several member states.
in writing. since its independence in 2006, montenegro has clearly shown its desire to join the european union: the euro has been officially adopted since 2006 and a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) has been in force since 1 may 2010. montenegro's accession to the union will provide the country with greater political, economic and social stability and will contribute to the stability of the balkan region. i also welcome the efforts made by montenegro to become a constructive partner in the field of regional cooperation, in particular through the various regional agreements it has concluded with its neighbours on readmission, extradition and legal and police matters. the consolidation of peace and stability benefits not only the region but also europe as a whole. i therefore call for accession negotiations to be opened as soon as possible, especially since the european council has just granted montenegro candidate status at the end of december 2010. the efforts made on the accession criteria are progressing positively, although significant progress still needs to be made, in particular in the areas of corruption, organised crime, freedom of information and gender.
in writing. i welcome the overwhelming adoption by the european parliament of the járóka report, which calls for the fight against roma exclusion and discrimination, the promotion of their social, cultural and economic integration, greater protection of their fundamental rights and better use of european funds. parliament has defined its priorities, on which there is consensus. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. as concrete measures, one can point to access to education, a priority for both roma and other populations. the use of european funds must also be monitored to ensure that the amounts actually reach the recipients. parliament also called for the establishment of eu bodies under the supervision of the current roma task force to ensure eu financial support for relevant local initiatives and to identify and report in a timely manner any misuse of funds. in addition, the scope of the funding should be extended to also finance projects aimed at improving public services.
in writing. today, between 10 and 12 million roma need action at european level to promote their social, cultural and economic integration. the roma have suffered and continue to suffer systematic discrimination, exclusion, human rights violations and stigmatisation. the report we have just adopted is an important step towards measures to reduce marginalisation, poverty and social exclusion. however, much remains to be done in the area of non-discrimination. even if discrimination based on ethnic origin can be eliminated, the socioeconomic exclusion of most roma remains a harsh reality. many roma in europe live in such poor conditions, and are totally cut off from the economy, that they do not enjoy basic rights. i also believe that the integration of roma must also start at an early age with the registration of children in the population register, access to quality education, and job-search training for parents. the commission must set minimum standards at european level which require the involvement of local and national authorities as well as european authorities.
in writing. − the roma in europe face systematic discrimination and have to fight against exclusion, human rights violations and stigmatisation. by voting today for binding eu minimum standards, i hope that the 10 to 12 million roma will have better access to employment, education, housing and health care. the report is positive in that it calls for the best measures to be sought together with those concerned. the report also stresses the essential role of regional policy. member states have access to funds to help roma integrate, but they hardly use the money. it is therefore up to the member states to take their responsibility. the report also welcomes the commission's proposal to introduce award criteria which benefit successful member states and punish non-compliance. the only negative point is the reference to the so-called long-term dependence of roma on social security. this is a very conservative prejudice that marginalizes the roma community once again. i hope that the commission will incorporate this report into its own proposal which is likely to be presented on 5 april. it was expected to be adopted by the council before the summer. the integration of the roma is one of the priorities of the hungarian presidency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during the women's day, you may not have noticed that in the report by mrs nedelcheva from your group, the issue of abortion was not taboo, it was discussed, and it was debated and voted on democratically. this is not a taboo, this is democracy.
mr president, of course i respect mr mitchell’s views. like most, if not all, of the members of this parliament, i deplore the fact that in a number of societies in the world, female foetuses are aborted, whether with the consent of the mother or under coercion. however, i fear that, by mixing up this issue with the issue of reproductive freedom, mr mitchell is obscuring the issue. if the issue were limited to the fact that female foetuses are aborted, it might be easier for us to reach an agreement on it.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mrs ashton, we have been talking about this all day, the great hope that has arisen from the arab revolutions shows us that democracy is an aspiration of all and that there is no exclusive. the right to live freely is something that must be universally recognized. this is also true for the palestinians when, as we speak - in gaza in particular - young palestinians - and god knows if there are any - are today without a future, without a future, without the possibility of education, of movement and without the possibility, even sometimes, of medical care and food. obviously, that's not acceptable. we share those feelings; i think it's pretty broad. but then i wonder and i do not understand - i assure you - the logic of the european union in its association agreement. you mentioned it. i've read and re-read the minutes of the association agreement. while the european union has denounced the violation of international law in many respects, as you have just mentioned, we are giving a series of positive incentives - you call them positive incentives - without any counterpart and without any guarantee in the fields of agriculture, fisheries, the environment, police, judicial cooperation, transport and space cooperation, for increased scientific cooperation, and in an acca agreement, without any counterpart. at your quartet meeting, you invited the israelis and they didn't come. so i don't want to criticise you, madam high representative. i know how hard you work. i don't even want to tell you that these positive incentives don't work. i would like to ask you whether we have the right, even today, to waive all kinds of non-sanctioned pressures? do we have the right to give economic and trade incentives when so many human rights, so many aspects of international law are constantly being violated? i don't believe that, and moreover, i think it's a political mistake in the light of the arab revolutions today.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, madam high representative, on behalf of my group i would like to start by saying that we could not agree more with your introduction, with the aims you have put forward and with the efforts you are making to re-instil life into what you yourself called the ‘stalled’ peace process. i believe that it has stalled and it should be restarted so that we can see some progress. last week parliament had the honour of being addressed by the israeli deputy foreign minister who came to make his case to us. he urged us, on the one hand, not to constantly focus on what is happening in the occupied palestinian territories and, on the other, rather to re-orient our focus on what we could do together, israel and the european union. it would be easier for us to do that if we had some serious indications that israel is really willing to breathe new life into the peace process. i cannot help but feel that israel believes that upheaval in a number of arab countries gives it more breathing space. like ms de keyser, i am afraid that this could turn out to be a major political mistake. on the contrary, israel should make use of what is happening today to speed up the process and try to conclude a peace agreement as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to express my support for my colleague mr de rossa. the imf's recommendations to ireland unfortunately reflect a strong tendency of our policy makers at the highest level. it is a question of making the european workers pay for a crisis for which they are not responsible. other examples include the commission's annual growth analysis which recommends raising the legal retirement age by linking it to life expectancy. on this subject, parliament recently expressed its disapproval in its report on the green paper on pensions. the proposal for a competitiveness pact calling for the abolition of wage indexation to inflation, particularly in my country, belgium. in view of this, i welcome the trade union demonstrations, such as those in hungary yesterday and in brussels on 29 september. it is time for our commissioners to hear this message from the european workers, if they do not want to widen the gap between them and the citizens, who will believe less and less in the european project.
member of the commission. − mr president, the eyafjallajökull eruption in iceland in april 2010 had an enormous impact which required the eu to act urgently. the commission therefore proposed immediate actions to coordinate the eu’s position and to strengthen the regulatory framework. this makes europe a stronger partner at a global level. the commission is actively engaged in practical work to refine the existing volcanic ash avoidance methodologies in aviation. for example, the commission has launched a specific call under the seventh framework programme called ‘technology support for crisis coordination for the air transport system following major disrupting events’. in parallel the european aviation safety agency (easa) is preparing rules for air-worthiness requirements and risk assessment for safe flight in airspace with volcanic contaminants. from an operational perspective, an approach has been developed in close cooperation with the easa. this approach reflects practices in other parts of the world. the guiding principles are as follows: first, the airline is responsible for the safety of its operations. before operating in airspace contaminated by volcanic ash, the airline must produce a safety risk assessment and have it accepted by its supervising authority. this process must be repeated when important changes occur. second, the airline must show that the information sources it uses in its safety risk assessment are correct. it also has to show its own competence and capability to interpret such data correctly. before starting operations, the airline must obtain from the manufacturers specific information regarding the susceptibility of the aircraft to the effects of airborne ash and the impact of such ash on its airworthiness. this must be reflected in the safety risk assessment. in dealing with disruptive events such as this, a key element is collaborative decision-making between member states and industry. to ensure comprehensive and coordinated actions, the commission, together with eurocontrol, established a european aviation crisis coordination cell, following the council of transport ministers meeting of 4 may 2010. since its creation, the cell has met on several occasions to develop its structures and procedures. to test and verify its timely functionality, this cell will be part of a volcano exercise planned for 13 and 14 april 2011 under the auspices of the un’s aviation body, the icao. the volcanic ash crisis highlighted the crucial importance of the single european sky. the commission has therefore accelerated its implementation via, for example, the adoption of the ses performance scheme and the associated eu-wide performance targets, the adoption of implementing rules for network management functions, the designation of the network manager, the adoption of implementing rules and guidance material for the functional airspace blocks, the nomination of the former mep mr georg jarzembowski as the functional airspace blocks coordinator and the expected finalisation by april 2011 of the extension of the easa’s competence for safety regulation in the field of air traffic management. let me therefore conclude by saying that the commission is continuing to work on these very complex and technical issues. the commission is working together with easa, icao, member states and industry to ensure the safety of european airspace.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. one thing was clear: over 100,000 flights were cancelled, 300 airports and over ten million passengers were affected. you have to learn from an incident like this. that is why we are asking the question today. the call for coordination came very quickly, and it was clear that there was no such thing. you can't improvise coordination in 24 hours. these are the answers we are asking for today, not only from this parliament but also from the citizens of europe. first, we want to know whether or not information has improved in terms of both the impact and the location of such phenomena. secondly, what will be the role of the eu institutions in this area in the future and what will be their decision-making powers? will we continue to have a series of 27 decisions, or has the commission already made other proposals and how far are the airlines involved in this? this question has been asked many times. the crisis committee is to meet, it's meeting, it's also going to do tests. it would be more than important that this parliament and therefore the citizens of europe be informed of the results of these tests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must also consult the structures at international level, because airspace and certain disasters know no borders in this context. another important point for us is the passengers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, the faster allocation of railway lines when needed. you can't improvise that in 24 hours either. these are the questions we also have on behalf of the citizens and the passengers. it's not just about clearing up the rights! last but not least, you mentioned the air blocks, the so-called fabs, 7 instead of 27. it could work. but i would just like to venture a prediction today that we will not be able to do it by 2012 because the member states do not want to. we must also send a clear signal to the outside world that we urgently need to reduce the number of airbags. and it can work! i would like to ask you, commissioner hahn, to come to maastricht, which is not far from where you live. the cooperation in the upper airspace already works between three or four countries. there all the problems that the countries are raising are solved. if you go there, propose it to the commission and use it as a model for europe, for the seven fabs, then we can solve this within 12 months!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would of course like to thank all my co-signatories, regina bastos of the epp, pascal canfin of the green group, marie-christine vergiat of the gue group and renate weber of the alde group, for signing declaration 84. together, we were able to reach a majority of signatures. i thank the social economy players who have mobilised and who are enabling this parliament to send a clear signal to the commission that foundations, associations and mutual societies should finally be given a single european status. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i do this in the name of all the group leaders and also of most of the coordinators because yesterday, after the debate, there was a general feeling that there is a need to strengthen paragraph 11. the oral amendment i am presenting is the following: ‘calls on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to establish relations with the interim transitional national council and to start the process of making them official, so as to encourage transition towards democracy, ensuring the involvement of a wide spectrum of representatives of the libyan society and empower women and minorities in the transitional process, and to support it in the liberated area so as to relieve the population and to meet its basic humanitarian needs, including medical assistance’. that is the oral amendment in the name of the seven group leaders and also of all the coordinators, with whom it has been agreed.
in writing. - the hungarian government has done well to use all the hype surrounding a controversial law to make it clear that freedom of the press and media pluralism are and remain fundamental pillars in hungary. the european commission has done a great job in this area. the commission will continue to monitor the case, not only in hungary, but in all the member states of the union. the initiative announced by commissioner kroes to bring together different stakeholders in a group of experts to then look at the state of play of media pluralism in europe is an important step forward. this group will assist the commission in drawing up new steps in the media landscape. we have a mandate to guarantee media pluralism and freedom of the press in europe. i therefore assume that the european parliament will cooperate actively in this.
in writing. - i am convinced that a very large majority in the european parliament defends the fundamental rights of the media. if a resolution calls for these rights but does not take account of the amendments to this law which were adopted by the hungarian parliament this week, i would have welcomed it if all the resolutions which were drawn up before this vote in budapest had been withdrawn in order to be updated and then discussed and put to the vote. the vote in the european parliament was no longer about freedom of the press, which should be a top priority, but about a show of force between the political groups.
in writing. freedom of expression, and hence freedom of the press, are among the most important of the fundamental rights. we must fight to preserve it, even when the expression of certain views disturbs us. this freedom is also ours and it is the guarantee of the free exercise of our mandate. there is no transparency possible without freedom of the media. the temptation to try to control the news and journalists is great, even in our western democracies. free and professional information is always preferable to "rumor", which often replaces the press when it is silenced. modern mass media play a decisive role in democratic life and are fundamental vectors of access for all to knowledge, entertainment and social life. as such, what i call the 'just state' must assume the responsibility of supporting the development of free media at home and abroad, of promoting information pluralism and the richness of cultural creation and of facilitating access to these contents for all.
in writing. the libyan revolution, launched in the name of freedom, dignity and democracy, is the work of young people driven by the sense of the state. we cannot but support this great and beautiful aspiration and strongly condemn those who try to suppress it by force, not hesitating to cause thousands of wounded and dead among the civilian population. i very much hope that the un, in coordination with the arab league and the au, will give a mandate for the establishment of a no-fly zone over libya to protect the population from possible attacks. i also hope that the high representative of the union, catherine ashton, will establish relations with the national transitional council as soon as possible with a view to recognizing it as a legitimate interlocutor pending democratic elections. in the last few weeks we have witnessed a dramatic and promising shift in the geopolitical landscape of this very sensitive region. i am convinced that a new prospect is emerging which creates the conditions for a peaceful settlement of the israeli-palestinian conflict. we must seize this opportunity to rid the middle east of a conflict which has already caused too much pain, too much drama, too much resentment and too much misunderstanding.
in writing. i supported this resolution because, beyond the nuclear issue, the rapporteur did not hesitate to address the internal situation of the country, the aspirations of the population for more democracy and the human rights situation. we have a duty not to disappoint a young people, a population that aspires to live in a democracy with mutual respect for each other's ideas. we must support a people who are striving to shape a state of law in order to offer future generations a destiny of tolerance, freedom, justice and prosperity. we must denounce as unacceptable rape, murder, summary executions, arbitrary arrests and harassment. any violation of human rights is unacceptable. however, since president ahmadinejad's re-election in june 2009, there has been a resurgence of such violations. iran has the highest execution rate per capita in the world. it is the second country after china to apply the death penalty by stoning in terms of the number of executions and the first in relation to the number of inhabitants. it is time for iran to live up to its obligations under the international covenant on civil and political rights, which it has freely ratified.
- a writer. - the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education and the media, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1612/68 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97); i organized a conference in brussels on 27 january and there i identified the impact of the destructive chinese urbanisation plans on the uyghur population. because it is true that under the guise of public safety and modernization, they want to preserve up to 15% of the original city and, in effect, turn kashgar into one big open-air museum. i think it is high time we reacted forcefully to this before it is too late. following the crackdown on demonstrations in urumqi in july 2009, parliament called on the chinese authorities to make every effort to establish an open, permanent and respectful dialogue with the uyghurs, and to pursue a more integral and comprehensive economic policy in their area, aimed at promoting local involvement and, in particular, protecting uyghur cultural identity. unfortunately, china's current policy in kashgar proves otherwise. the destruction of kashgar without the participation of the local population, but also the chinese refusal to allow kashgar to compete for unesco world heritage status, is indicative of the chinese communist party's approach to cultural diversity.
in writing. the debt crisis in the region has demonstrated the need to establish economic union and governance as soon as possible. the european stability mechanism is an important part of the mechanism to strengthen budgetary discipline and the coordination of the economic and financial policies of the member states. it is the first step in a series of changes necessary to create a credible economic government. the permanent stability mechanism is the subject of an intergovernmental agreement, which unfortunately implies the application of the unanimity rule. this approach is dangerous because it could play into the hands of the eurosceptics. ideally, this mechanism should have been incorporated into the community system. the commission should be able, in agreement with the member states, to pursue the objectives of the permanent stability mechanism and not to limit itself to technical monitoring. finally, if the use of the simplified procedure for the revision of the treaty was necessary in the present case, i believe that it should remain the exception.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would first like to congratulate president barroso. he's a ram, like me, like marielle de sarnez, like joseph daul. he's a sheep, like me, like marielle de sarnez, like joseph daul. he's a sheep, like me, like joseph daul. there is a bunch of sheep around me, but they still have a few remarks to make about the europe pact, mr president. because, seriously, it's good that everybody now agrees that we need an economic union, real economic governance, but the issue is crucial. will the pact for europe really create economic union? is this the pact that will really create economic governance? i do not believe that at all, for the simple reason that it is not the commission that is leading the process, but always the member states. and i'm not saying that. i have the text here from 11 march, which will be approved tomorrow and the day after. and what does he say? he said that the objectives are decided by the heads of state and government, that the commitments are made by the heads of state and government, that the monitoring is carried out by the heads of state and government. in fact, the commission is simply providing technical follow-up, nothing more. all power is in the council. and that is what caused the failure of the lisbon strategy and will cause the failure of this strategy. mr president, i ask you once again. we will approve what we approve over the weekend, but together with mr rehn, prepare as quickly as possible a real economic governance plan based on a community act which gives all the power to the commission, which is based on a convergence code, and put it on the council's table. i know they'll say no. they always say no. but continue the fight with us and do not accept this procedure or the proposal that is on the table at the moment, because it will not work, and it will not stabilize the euro in the coming months and years. that is the first point i wanted to make. my second point, madam president, concerns the arab uprisings and the follow-up to the discussion we had here a week ago. we can now take a first look at european action. and this first report is a bit, i would say, mixed. first of all, at the beginning, you remember very well, we were actually not very enthusiastic about talking about these arab revolts, for fear of islamic fundamentalism. this was our first reaction in the european institutions. then, in the case of libya, we demonstrated the lack of unity in the european union. i find it appalling that in the security council not all the member states of the european union took the same position: three voted in favour and one abstained. well, i say it's against the treaty. because article 34 of the treaty states that in matters of foreign policy the member states of the union are obliged to coordinate and to have the same point of view. did we do it? i do not think that we did, and i think that article 34 of the treaty was even violated. and then, third, what we see now! yesterday mrs ashton was before the afet committee, and i think she should be here today as we are discussing such an important matter. i think that the european union lacks a strategy in relation to the arab revolutions. decisions at the level of the european union are sometimes scandalous. on monday, for example, before the afet committee, mr cooper, who is one of mrs ashton's assistants, even said at one point that we had to understand the situation in bahrain and that the authorities were right to restore calm and order, when four people were killed and 200 injured. is that the european position? to give you another example, the union's foreign ministers met in the council on monday and what did they say? they also call on - i'm talking about bahrain - protesters to refrain from any deliberate acts of intimidation. so instead of supporting, within the framework of the european union, these revolutions and those who are in the streets, those who are beaten, those who are killed, we do the opposite. they say they have to stay calm, that they have to be careful. what i am asking is that mrs ashton come to the plenary to explain what attitude and what strategies we want to follow in bahrain, in syria, in yemen, what sanctions we want to take and with whom. that is what we must do instead of the poor positions taken by many european leaders at the moment on this matter.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr barroso is no longer here, but as he said, trust is the basis of everything. i can tell you that the confidence of our citizens is evaporating as fast as the water in the tanks of the fukushima plant. yes, our citizens know that there are things to change, that we can no longer continue as before. yes, we must reverse the race to precariousness and more inequality. yes, we must break free from our addiction to fossil or hazardous fuels. yes, we must put finance back at the service of the economy and the economy at the service of the citizens. and no, we can no longer build our economy on debt, whether private or public, and on deficit or speculation. all this is known to our citizens. and our citizens know that this means profound and radical changes on the part of governments, on the part of businesses and on the part of themselves. they know it, they feel it. they know that these radical changes are also complex. and as marianne thyssen told me yesterday, they are complex and you can't do everything at once. well, you gotta start somewhere. but the problem, you see, is that for our fellow citizens, it always starts from the same place: it always starts with cutting public spending, which, as everyone knows, is the one that benefits the most the most precarious. we always start by making labour markets more flexible. indeed, when we talk about rebalancing flexibility and security, we know that it is more flexibility and less security. and our citizens are tired of this double standard. a policy that finally leaves in peace those who have benefited most from the casino economy over the last 20 years. so what we expect from the council - beyond, of course, everything on the table today - is, on the one hand, a bold initiative to ensure that the member states and the union have stable and fair tax revenues. so, of course, there is the financial transaction tax, the energy tax, the corporate tax - and don't come selling us the consolidated plate as the alpha and omega, the nirvana of tax policy - and, finally, there is the fight against fraud and tax havens. without this initiative, i can tell you that everything on the table in terms of economic governance will fall apart, and the euro with it, because there is no historical example, ladies and gentlemen, of a monetary union that has succeeded without being accompanied by a robust fiscal union. enough of the impact studies, enough of the procrastination, enough of the national egoism, do something for god's sake! finally, as far as the financial industry is concerned, it is not new stress tests that will bring us security, any more than in the nuclear industry, if i may say so. we saw how stupid the previous stress tests were! everything was going well, including ireland. what we need are new binding rules, not rules that tell us: 'we will implement them on 1 january 2019'. it is time to put the financial industry and its predatory activities back in the bottle and our citizens will not tolerate any more waiting. that is the price we pay for the confidence of our fellow citizens, the confidence which is indispensable if we europeans are to enter the 21st century with a high and optimistic head.
mr president, mr schulz said that military operations were set up too hastily. on the contrary, they came too late. the west waited too long. it could have isolated gaddafi in tripoli and forced him either to go or to be wiped out. as it was, we were just in time to prevent a mass murder in benghazi. and what did we see? france and britain – two nation states – took the lead. my congratulations! germany, apparently, is a country of hard currency and soft power. being minister of defence in germany is the most risky job in the country. meanwhile, turkey opposes nato, and the us is the power in retreat and acts like a spectator. i am afraid that now – as in the balkans – we cannot break the deadlock without committed american leadership: leadership that the european union, unfortunately, is incapable of providing. the only politician who knew how to deal with gaddafi was ronald reagan. reagan was right all along.
in writing. chairmen, this spring summit is of crucial importance for all europeans. this is the basis for a stable euro and a thorough consolidation of economic cooperation in europe. the euro pact now on the table is fortunately much more balanced than the original options. respect for the social consultation model is central to that pact. it is right that we should, because it is the basis of our european rhineland model. the time has come for an important next step, because the european project must not be reduced to a purely financial and monetary project. that would be fatal in the long run and would erode the support of the people for europe. europe therefore needs more than ever an attractive, new, forward-looking project that will reawaken people's enthusiasm. we do not have to look far, because the proposals are already on the table. we must, among other things, focus on cross-border investment in renewable energy. that is only possible if we also pave the way for eurobonds. it will be an excellent injection for our economy, for employment and for the environment of course, and on the basis of the commission's 'roadmap 2050' calculations, absolutely feasible. let's just get on with it.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for many years the epp group has consistently stressed that consumer protection and the completion of the internal market are not opposing objectives but go hand in hand. this horizontal instrument codifies and clarifies the rights and obligations of consumers and traders throughout the eu. it also indicates that the eu is committed to meeting the needs of the most vulnerable consumers. existing shortcomings in online or cross-border purchases are largely addressed. this creates opportunities for consumers but also for our smes, which will now be able to take advantage of the scale of the internal market more easily. but if we are serious about smes, we should not burden them unnecessarily. the commission proposal should therefore be adapted to the needs of smes. europe cannot be satisfied with less than a 'distinction' for the sme test.
the agenda calls for the joint discussion on:- the recommendation of artur zasada, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a decision of the council and of the representatives of the governments of the member states of the european union, meeting within the council, on the conclusion of the protocol amending the air transport agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the united states of america, of the other part (15381/2010 c7-0385/2010 2010/01(nle)) (a7-0046/2011),- the recommendation of silvia-adriana ticău, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the draft decision of the council and of the representatives of the governments of the member states, meeting within the council, on the conclusion of the air transport agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and canada, of the other part, on the conclusion of the protocol amending the air transport agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the united states of america, of the other part (15381/2010 c7-0385/2010 2010/01(((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank parliament and the rapporteurs in particular for supporting the commission on these important agreements. all three have been strongly supported by the committee on transport and tourism. on the us agreement, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, mr zasada, for his very positive recommendation in relation to the outcome of the negotiations with the united states on a second stage air services agreement. you will remember that the aim of the second stage discussions was to facilitate the normalisation of the transatlantic market and extend the scope and depth of the excellent aviation relationship established through the implementation of the first stage agreement, in place since march 2008. i now want to mention the key elements of the second stage aviation agreement. the second stage agreement creates the prospects for additional investment and market access opportunities. it also further strengthens the framework of cooperation on the environment, social protection, competition and security. on the environment, the agreement establishes a clear framework for tackling local and global challenges. the agreement seeks to reduce the security burden on passengers, airlines and airports across europe. for the first time in such an aviation agreement, the need to balance market access opportunities with strong social protection has been recognised through a commitment to implementing the provisions of the agreement in a way which does not undermine labour rights. on the commercial front, europe has gained further rights, including immediate access to the ‘fly america’ programme with the exception of defence. the second stage agreement is not perfect. like you, i would have liked to have seen an immediate and irrevocable change to the us laws governing ownership and control of its airlines. this has not been possible, but we were able to secure a commitment from the united states to work towards reforming these rules in the future. as part of the agreement, the eu and the united states have committed to the goal of removing the remaining market barriers in industry, including those that limit airlines’ access to global capital. let me now turn to the agreement with canada. my thanks go to the committee on transport and tourism, and in particular to ms ţicău. this ambitious agreement is designed to achieve complete opening of the markets for traffic rights and investment, at the same time reaching an unprecedented level of regulatory convergence and cooperation between the authorities. with respect to market access, the agreement comprises the full range of traffic rights and investment opportunities: this means 100% ownership and control. it is done through a phased market opening in four phases. among its multiple benefits for both sides, it is also worth noting the establishment of a level playing field for the industry, as well as common or compatible standards for safety, security and air traffic management. last but not least, i am convinced that by removing existing regulatory restrictions this agreement will lead to a substantial increase in passengers and generate various consumer benefits and the creation of new jobs. on vietnam, let me also start by thanking the rapporteur, mr riquet, for his support for this horizontal agreement. currently, we have negotiated 45 such horizontal agreements with partner countries worldwide. on 4 october 2010, during a visit to the european union, the vietnamese prime minister signed the agreement, which represents an important step towards strengthening aviation relations between the eu and vietnam. the horizontal agreement will restore legal certainty to our aviation relations with vietnam by bringing the bilateral air services agreements between 17 member states and vietnam into line with eu law. most importantly, it will remove nationality restrictions in bilateral air services agreements between eu member states and vietnam. it will thereby allow any eu airline to benefit from the existing bilateral agreements between vietnam and the member state. thank you very much for your attention. i am looking forward to the debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their reports. the epp welcomes these agreements. it means that in this case one replaces almost 27 different agreements that could have been in these areas with one single agreement. technical harmonization is also an important point for us. this harmonization increases safety not only for the operation itself but also for the passengers. the opening up of markets and cooperation at european level should be treated in the same way on both sides. it is important to emphasize that the agreement with canada can be regarded as almost exemplary, while the agreement with the united states still leaves some expectations unfulfilled. i also think that the fact that we - and this is what will shape all future agreements - will have to review these agreements on social and environmental matters on a regular basis is not fulfilled, because simplification at economic level must also mean that we can influence not only the european market but also the global market through these agreements. the agreement also benefits the passengers themselves. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. in conclusion, i would like to say that we welcome these agreements because, as i said, they will in effect replace the 27 by a single agreement. this is also a clear indication that we will soon be dealing with seven, or perhaps even three, airspaces in the context of aviation safety and the implementation of the single airspace, rather than the 27 we have at present. this will also facilitate the negotiation of these agreements.
on behalf of the s&d group, president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would first like to thank the three rapporteurs for their work and for the good cooperation they have shown. we shall have the opportunity to go into more detail on the general approach and strategy towards such agreements when the more general debate on the brian simpson report on aviation agreements is due to take place shortly. we in the s&d group are absolutely in favour of replacing the old bilateral agreements between our member states and third countries with comprehensive global agreements at european level. this is the best guarantee of a level playing field for all our airlines. it also strengthens the integration of our own aviation sector and, of course, our bargaining position vis-à-vis third countries. it is important that we not only pay attention to the opening up of the market for additional flight rights and such things, but also to the strengthening of the regulatory framework at environmental, social, safety and security level. we absolutely need to coordinate that more and at a very high level. it is important to note that, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament must not only give its opinion but also give its real approval to these agreements. i would therefore say to the commission and the council that we are going to make full use of that power and that parliament should therefore also retain its say in adopting or adapting annexes or other amendments at a later stage. as regards the agreements on the table, our group considers that the agreement with canada is the closest approximation to the model we have in mind, namely far-reaching cooperation in the fields of security, social affairs, consumer protection and the environment. the rapporteur rightly points out that the paragraphs on social questions should have been worded a little more strongly, but that can be resolved in the joint committee, which now has to put some things into practice. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the matter with the council. the agreement with vietnam also reminds us of the growing importance of the asian market, and i think we should point out at this point that the council has been hesitating for years to give a mandate to the commission to negotiate with countries such as china and india. that mandate is of course essential if we are to make progress in this area. finally, i would like to say a few words about the agreement with the united states, particularly the second phase. it is a sector which accounts for 60% of the world aviation market and is therefore of particular importance. i myself was rapporteur for this parliament when the first phase was adopted a few years ago. we are not entirely satisfied with the united states: there are still some things that need to be done in terms of market access. we ask the commission to make a commitment that this is not the end of the road, that it will continue to move towards market opening and that we as parliament will also be fully involved in the work of the joint committee.
thank you for the invitation, mr. boulland, i'll see what i can do with it.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by francesca balzani, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2012 budget [2011/2042 bud] (a7-0058/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. there is no development without economic growth. but as i have already mentioned, economic growth does not guarantee development in the absence of an impartial state. eu trade policy plays a key role in the fight against poverty and the achievement of the mdgs. the eu's generalised system of preferences is one of the instruments enabling developing countries to compete in international markets, offering either tariff reductions or duty-free access to the community market for their exports. it also frees them from dependence on aid. we have approved an extension of the existing regulation pending the new proposal for a regulation requested in order to ensure legal certainty. however, account should be taken of the increased powers of the ep in the commercial field following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. according to the goc, the measures under the gsp regulation should be considered as delegated acts. the european parliament has been given greater powers of control than it currently has.
in writing. i welcome the appointment of mr peter praet as a member of the executive board of the european central bank. specializing in financial stability and the supervision of financial infrastructures and payment systems, and a member of the steering committee of the commission for banking, finance and insurance (cbfa) in belgium, mr praet enjoys a high reputation in the economic and academic worlds and a wealth of experience which he can put to good use in the service of the european union.
in writing. − although it would be good overall to give a residence permit and a work permit at the same time, the following questions remain open or the following comments are necessary: the principle of the application of the social legislation of the country of employment must always be considered as the basis. 2. no worker can be legally hired as 'cheap' labour under this measure, as this destroys our labour market and is socially unfair. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. by establishing a single application procedure for third-country nationals wishing to be admitted to the territory of a member state to work there and by offering them a secure legal status, this proposal for a directive will simplify the often complex administrative procedures for the reception of economic migrants. the existence of a single procedure for issuing a single document authorising residence and access to the labour market constitutes a significant simplification of the admission system. the proposal also provides for equal treatment with national workers and therefore has the advantage of giving workers from third countries greater protection than at present. this status will also help to combat unfair competition which often results from the absence of a legal status protecting these workers. the text adopted today also takes up the two main priorities of the adle: it removes all reference to additional documents and asks the member states to draw up 'matching tables' which enable the commission to verify the transposition of the directive. it thus gives a clear signal of the european parliament's willingness to move towards a european legislative framework for legal immigration.
in writing. the adoption this afternoon of the directive on a single permit for third-country nationals wishing to reside and work in a member state is a further step towards achieving a harmonised immigration policy at european level. the idea of merging a residence permit and a work permit is a good one. it shows that the union is genuinely committed to promoting legal migration and that it is not the fortress europe that some want to see in it. to do this it was important that the european parliament supported the idea of a single application procedure which would be simpler and faster for both the employer and the migrant. the european parliament also made the right choice by excluding from the scope of application four categories of workers: seasonal workers, workers posted within their undertakings, self-employed persons and seamen, already or soon to be covered by specific directives. another positive aspect is the flexibility which member states have in respect of the actual rights of third country workers. the 27 capitals have the final say on whether or not to grant unemployment benefits and family allowances and whether or not to grant social housing during the first three years of residence. just common sense!
in writing. - although the directive is far from ideal and complete, i voted in favour of the directive on a single procedure for applying for a residence and work permit. i regret the shortcomings in relation to seasonal workers, posted workers, the right to change employers and the right to enter and re-enter, because these subgroups are protected in other (future) regulations. all in all, this directive is of great importance as it is the first of its kind to provide a common package of minimum rights (including wage rights, equal treatment in the workplace, pension rights, access to health care) to third country workers legally resident in europe, on the basis of equal treatment with national workers of the member states. in addition, a simplified system with a single application procedure for a residence and work permit is provided for. this is far from a fully common immigration policy, but in view of the growing immigration flows, the constantly changing demand for foreign labour and the prevention of abuse and discrimination in this respect, this initial protection is essential. third country workers will now be given more protection than they are at present. all of that was the deciding factor in my yes vote.
in writing. - the facilitation of crossborder trade through uniform rules and at the same time the strengthening of consumer rights, especially when buying in another member state, are the reasons why i expressly welcome the 'new' consumer protection directive. the current uncertainty about the applicable consumer rights is deterring both companies from offering their goods cross-border and consumers from ordering these goods, as there is uncertainty about a possible withdrawal. a european single market explicitly calls for the removal of such barriers. the uniform definitions proposed in this report, which harmonise, inter alia, the right of withdrawal and rules on abusive contractual terms, will create legal certainty and thus increase the attractiveness of crossborder trade for businesses and thus ultimately benefit consumers. chapter 5 was not adopted, so consumer protection in europe will apply across europe according to the highest criteria. referral to the committee is therefore necessary to renegotiate with the commission.
in writing. a well-protected consumer is a secure citizen and a sign of the maturity of our modern democracies. this is where the directive adopted today is important. not a day goes by without the european consumer, when making a purchase online or accepting a modification to a telephone subscription contract, being confronted with a question about the conformity of the signed or approved contract. it is in response to the often unbalanced relations between traders and consumers that the european parliament has opted for a 14-day right of withdrawal. a clear signal that the same rights should be exercised throughout the union. so of course the adoption of the schwab report does not fully satisfy either the consumer associations opposed to the principle of maximum harmonisation or the representatives of smes and chambers of commerce who wanted the legislation to be limited to boosting e-commerce. the european parliament has chosen the compromise and has not given in to the sirens of alarm. this choice is supported by the recent european survey which shows that 79% of the traders surveyed believe that the legislation adopted will have little impact on their sales abroad.
in writing. in view of the magnitude of the tsunami and the earthquake of 11 march, i would like to express my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims, to the people and the government of japan. i also express my full support and admiration for the rescuers and the staff of the fukushima plant. fortunately, the european union was able to respond quickly to the japanese request, in particular by triggering its 'civil protection mechanism' which aims to coordinate the actions of the 27 member states in emergency situations at national, european and international levels. the union is also ready to provide all its technical expertise in nuclear matters to help japanese and international experts to control the situation around and within the fukushima plant.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, mr ai weiwei, who is the best-known chinese artist and dissident and has always had the opportunity to speak freely, was detained at beijing airport on sunday and is, apparently, in prison. not only should i use this opportunity to protest against the chinese authorities, i also have to say to you and to our colleagues that we should perhaps reconsider our participation in the second china-eu summit next month in beijing if this is the direction in which things are going. it is necessary for us to have an urgent resolution on this as fast as possible so that we can increase pressure on the chinese authorities to release mr ai weiwei. the first idea was to replace the urgent resolution on zimbabwe on thursday by an urgent resolution on the detention of mr ai weiwei, but after brief consultation it seems there may be a better option: putting cote d’ivoire (ivory coast) on wednesday, so that the space that is liberated on thursday could then be used for this urgent resolution on mr ai weiwei. i have consulted the different political groups here and they agree with this way of changing the agenda.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by our president, mrs svensson, which stresses the need to consider all violence as a criminal offence. as a general rule, while i particularly appreciate that the european union is made up of states with diverse and varied national cultures and traditions, when it comes to violence, i am appalled by the differences in treatment. take the case of rape. although it is a matter of criminal law everywhere, it is not defined in the same way in all states. for latvia, marital rape simply does not exist. in malta, the rape of a man by another man does not exist. and in slovakia, being raped by an object is not considered rape. so there are women, men, children with broken lives behind all these definitions. to minimize the qualification of crimes is to minimize the victims themselves and their suffering. i therefore call on the commission to draw up as a matter of urgency an effective road map against all forms of violence.
what we are now witnessing in lampedusa was described and predicted as far back as 1973 by the french writer jean raspail in his prophetic novel "le camp des saints". only the fact is, reality trumps fiction. europe must take matters into its own hands rather than just accepting everything. it is absurd to celebrate the regime change in tunisia and egypt without criticism and then immediately take in refugees, or so-called refugees, from those countries. everyone knows that almost no one on those boats that dock in lampedusa qualifies to be recognised as a political refugee. but now these people are being allowed into european territory and with the support of all kinds of subsidized groups, traffickers and expensive lawyers, they will start proceedings and drag on as long as possible and then disappear into illegality if they are not recognized. in practice, frontex does not protect the external borders of europe today, but acts as a kind of reception committee. these boats should be escorted back to their places of origin and genuine refugees should be taken in as far as possible in their own region rather than in europe. it is also essential that a number of international conventions be adapted to the needs of the times.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr van rompuy for this report on the council, but let us be honest, i do not think that the crisis is over, and i do not believe that, with the measures we are taking now, it can be over. there is a heavy thunderstorm on our doorstep. what we have done in the european union so far is to use stop-gaps: measures which may be necessary but are not in fact solving the crisis. we have given eur 110 billion to greece and eur 67 billion to ireland, and i am not including the eur 24 billion for the irish banks that we have just decided to provide. for the moment we have eur 76 billion in government bonds which the ecb has purchased. i can tell you that it will continue to do that, because the emergency fund is not allowed to go on the secondary markets. this means that it will continue to do so. on top of that, the ecb has accepted eur 100 billion of collateral to give liquidity to the banks in europe. in total, that is eur 400 billion that we have invested in this crisis in recent months. that is three times the budget of the european union! and the worst is still to come. on thursday there will probably be an increase in interest rates in europe –from 1% to 1.25% – which may worsen the situation. it is necessary to combat inflation, but on the other hand this is making the situation worse. so that is the situation: eur 400 billion that we have invested. and have we solved the crisis? no, we have not solved the crisis. what is necessary is a really bold and in-depth approach and we do not have that for the moment. in this regard i would like to quote nout wellink, the president of the dutch national bank, who published his annual report a few days ago. he says three things about the outcome of our decisions and those of the council in recent weeks. he says that the budget rules are not tight enough, the economic governance package is too little and the pact for the euro is in fact too weak because there is no mechanism to enforce it. i am not the one saying this, i am quoting nout wellink, president of the dutch national bank, who is repeating exactly what mr trichet said last week. the third thing he mentioned is that financial supervision is being conducted on too national a basis. i think nout wellink is right. we can even add a number of other elements. the first is the efsf and the esm. the permanent and temporary rescue funds cannot work because they have a unanimity rule. if we keep this rule, it means that the entire eurozone will from now on be hijacked by eurosceptic governments and by eurosceptic political parties. finally – and this is my message for today – we still have to clean up the european banks. the problem has not been solved and the economic recovery in europe will not start if we do not first of all deal with that problem. not only do they have the old products from the financial crisis still in their portfolios, but they now also have a number of bonds in their portfolios from problematic countries whose ratings are going down every day and at least every week. what i am asking is that mr barroso and mr trichet come forward as quickly as possible with a global response on that issue, namely a bolder stability pact – and parliament is working on that – and economic governance. is there real economic governance? what we have now is an intergovernmental approach without a sanction mechanism and that will not work. it has not worked in the past and it will not work in the future. we must come forward with a proposal to abolish the unanimity rule in the rescue funds, because it cannot work. we are in fact giving all the power to the countries and the parties who are against the system. finally, we have to come forward with a plan for the european banking sector. we will not have economic recovery before you have put on the table a european mechanism to clean up the banks. we all know that will take money. recapitalise the european banks, finance investment in europe – as has been requested by mr schulz – and at the same time cover the bad public finances of a number of our member states. how will we do that? where is the money? the only way to find the money is to create a real european bond market, and we know it. creating a european bond market is the only way out of the crisis. i would like to say to mr barroso that now is the time for him to deliver. time is running out and it is not only with a pact for the euro that we will solve the problems.
mr president, i have great respect for you and your work, but i must say that i am not convinced. you say the workers shouldn't worry, that we work for them. i read when i look at the 'euro plus pact', as you call it, that when we talk about competitiveness, what are we talking about? we are talking about lower wages, we are talking about more flexibility and less security. it says nothing about productivity and about our resources. there is no mention of energy productivity. i'm telling you, we're never going to win the low-wage race against china. china, on the other hand, is well on its way to beating us on energy efficiency and resource efficiency. what will europe have left in terms of competitiveness if we do not go to these areas? you're telling us that the welfare people shouldn't worry. but on the question of balanced public finances, a reasonable objective, you say that we must cut spending. 40% of public expenditure is social expenditure and there is no need to worry! and you tell us that we're in charge of the recipes. let's talk about the recipes. the ccctb, the consolidated tax base for companies, is a joke! you tell the parole officer; you say that, anyway, it has to be revenue neutral, so we don't get a dollar more out of it, and, besides, anyway, the companies will be able to choose. i've never seen anyone choose the most expensive tax option. but there are some people who should not worry, and those are the shareholders and creditors of the banks. you're talking about stress tests. last year's were a joke. i don't know if this year will be the same bad joke. what is certain is that, anyway, even if these stress tests are serious, in the end, who will capitalise the banks? their shareholders or us, the taxpayers? let's not get carried away! anyway, for them, obviously, there's nothing to worry about. and finally, we are not talking about the elephant in the room, which is the total unsustainability of the greek debt, the irish debt. you know, there's no way, no matter how you spin it, that they're going to be able to pay you back. and the later we restructure, the more painful the exercise. it's never going to be a pleasant exercise, but you wait and it's going to cost us. (applause) i would like to thank
if the crisis in libya illustrates anything well, it is, in my view, first of all the total lack of a serious european geopolitical strategy to safeguard european interests. it is a sad truth that our action there is primarily the result of an internal political agenda of sarkozy, who has given himself a kind of falklands moment. it is, however, remarkable that all those - including those in this chamber - who are so vehemently and rightly railing against the absolute evil of gaddafi, were until very recently all too happy to be photographed laughing at the libyan dictator, whom they were to receive with military honours. what i'm saying is that it's easier to shoot gaddafi today than to answer the huge questions that are going to arise. to name one. we are going to continue to arm these rebels - a very heterogeneous club, some of whom are still in their medieval age by european standards - and if so, what guarantee do we have that these weapons will not serve to plunge that country even further into chaos, as happened in iran after the overthrow of the shah? i would like to see that european commitment and strength reflected in the military protection of our own external borders. there is also a silent war being fought there at the moment, a frightening foreshadowing of an immigration invasion that nobody is talking about. we need european power there too.
i have a personal question for mr van rompuy. the war in libya continues. we have seen that there were warm relations between the libyan leader and european leaders as friends in the sandbox. i showed you pictures last time, including yours, mr van rompuy. i admire you as a man of integrity, sincerity, even in politics. consistent with. and that's why i got so upset about those pictures. hundreds of people were killed in lockerbie, many of them europeans. and then we see european leaders with the murderer. so when i saw you, i was disappointed. maybe it's because you're new to this job, between prime ministers and presidents and other chosen people. but i would advise you to keep both feet on the ground. europe must stand on the side of freedom. the essence of this project is freedom, and you and mr barroso, who was also very friendly to mr gaddafi, have denied this, and that is why i am disappointed in you.
madam president, mr van rompuy, it is clear that there are obvious things in your conclusions that we cannot be against: rigorous governance. no one can argue with that. but rigor should not mean zero deficit or austerity, but rather smart spending. the necessary competitiveness of the union must be improved, that is obvious, but the only adjustment variable cannot be lower wages or cuts in social spending. competitiveness is achieved through investment in skills, research, excellence and large-scale infrastructure. everyone here agrees that the union and the euro are at a turning point. we must choose between a model of withdrawal into ourselves, in which each one looks at his competitiveness in relation to the neighbouring member state, his rating on the financial markets, his lowest possible contribution to the european budget, or choose a model of solidarity - the only acceptable one - in which social standards are raised, in particular by respecting the place of social dialogue and trade unions, with social minimums throughout europe and mechanisms for indexing salaries, in which solidarity between the generations is ensured by a pension system that guarantees an adequate level of living in dignity, as parliament recently said. the member states should be freed from the pressures of the financial markets by means of a european central bank with a strengthened role and better regulated rating agencies, a model of solidarity which ensures genuine social and territorial cohesion in europe, in particular through a strengthened european budget, with a thorough reform of its own resources, and finally the introduction of the financial transaction tax. your conclusions are based on a strong ideology in which debt and deficits are the cause of the crisis, while the real cause is the irresponsibility of financial actors. without a change of ideological perspective within the council, we shall not get out of the crisis, we shall not restore the citizens' confidence. there is a clear democratic deficit today and if the council and the commission continue to make proposals which do not take parliament's opinion into account, the rejection of our project by our fellow citizens will intensify a little more.
the past year has been a year of hard work and many reforms have been put in place to ensure that the union will continue to be a society in which people live and work in a good and just way. i therefore welcome the fact that the european council has been given a new mandate. after all that has been said by the members, i would like to make three points. my first one concerns wage costs as one of the factors in competition policy. during the crisis i have heard the president of the commission and the president of the european council speak in praise of automatic stabilisers on several occasions. instead of sharp peaks and troughs, they make for a more stable economy with less job loss, which fits perfectly into the social market economy we want to be. but some now fear that too strong a focus on factor wage costs in the euro plus pact would severely restrict the scope for these automatic stabilisers. my question is, mr president, how do you see this? a second consideration is the wage cost factor. i hear the trade unions constantly saying that the autonomy of the member states and their social partners would be undermined in the area of wage formation and that we might be aiming at a flagrant breach of the rules of competence of the treaty. my question is: are we really in a danger zone there or is that fear unfounded? i would also like to hear your analysis, mr president-in-office, because if this double fear is unjustified, then we really must help to eliminate it. finally, a question on the common consolidated corporate tax base. i read one sentence in the conclusions of the spring summit, barely one, and yet without the slightest commitment from the european council on the matter. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. thank you in advance for your answers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the council conclusions on economic policy and the euro-plus pact open up a veritable european pandora's box, from which nothing but ills emerge that the european citizens will have to face. the challenge to social protection and wage indexation, the link between productivity and wages, the fall in purchasing power, the increase in the retirement age are just a few examples of the austerity crisis that awaits us. i am appalled to see that the council has clearly failed to learn the lessons of the crisis. of course we need a policy of fiscal responsibility and rigour, no one disputes this, but we must not put all the burden on the citizens, who represent our only chance of being able to get out of this crisis from above. you are too quick to forget the financial and banking sector, which must also bear the necessary burden and, above all, take responsibility. when will we finally see a financial transaction tax? the council is putting the burden of the sacrifices on labour and workers, not on capital, at a time when 16 million europeans are unemployed, prices are soaring and speculative shocks are shaking the continent, and this is unacceptable.
president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the evaluation of the last european council, i think that the analysis i presented was fairly balanced, fairly reasonable. i think it's fair to say that we've made some very significant progress on the structure. if we compare what we have now with what we did not have before, it is surely a great improvement. for example, there was the creation of a permanent stability mechanism, which was not even provided for in the treaty. in fact, this parliament, by an overwhelming majority, supported a limited reform of the treaty to create a new instrument, an instrument which did not even exist before. so let's be intellectually honest in our evaluation. i think there has been significant progress in terms of responding to the crisis, in terms of learning from the shortcomings we have seen in the past, both in terms of instruments and policies. but at the same time, i said, very clearly, that it might not be enough. it's one thing to have the structure, the architecture, but it's another thing to have the policies to enforce. and indeed, the real test of success is to see, after that, what governments, and also our institutions, can do in terms of substance. the substance is more important than the instruments. but at the same time i have told you, with, i think, great transparency, that when we talk about ambition, the commission would have preferred to go further in certain areas. we have stressed, for example, that we are in favour of more flexibility for the permanent stability mechanism. unfortunately, consensus at this higher level of ambition was not possible. that said, i think it would be a mistake to dismiss the gains we have made. i would like to emphasize this important aspect of ambition, because some have suggested that the commission should make other proposals. virtually everything you have said has already been proposed by the commission. on 9 may 2010, the commission myself and commissioner rehn tabled a legislative proposal for a fully community approach in terms of the stability mechanism. we have proposed the pooling of debt management, for example, in what is known as joint and several guarantees. this has been refused by our member states. not by you, but the member states are essential, mr verhofstadt. we presented the text at the euro summit. this was rejected by a large majority of member states. this is the real thing! on the specific question of unanimity or majority rule for the permanent stability mechanism, i myself proposed this, and i also insisted in the presence of the president of the european council, with some heads of state and government, that they accept a qualified majority rule. it was denied! so we can always insist, but the clauses have to be clear and you have to know exactly who to address your requests to. the commission has made ambitious proposals, and in the area of stress tests, it is the european commission and the european central bank that have proposed credible, transparent tests for the european bank. as far as eurobonds are concerned, i believe the commission has been talking about eurobonds for at least thirty years. this has been refused by some of our member states. i myself have proposed here - and i say to you that i will do so for the financial perspective - that we can now have at least project bonds for investment financing at the project level of our european budget. we shall see who will be there to support this approach to european investment. and perhaps some of you could convince us, with your own european parties, to support this more ambitious approach to the financial perspective. this may be an opportunity for us to work even more closely together. that is the question of european ambition. (applause) i would like to thank even in the social field, which i would like to mention, the commission has struggled to ensure that the 2020 strategy places greater emphasis on social aspects and education. but it wasn't easy. some governments said that, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, it was not for europe, it was not for the european union, to take direct action on social and educational aspects. let us now try, within the framework of the 2020 strategy - where it was still possible to reach a certain consensus to include, for example, the fight against poverty and social exclusion - to develop this policy, and also to promote investment, especially in education and innovation. but in that regard, let me tell you something, which you may not be aware of. the commission has already proposed, some time ago, i think two years ago, that emergency food aid be provided for some europeans, because there are also people in europe who are not eating enough. i have recently visited the food bank against hunger in bas-rhin with the president of the epp group, joseph daul. there are problems of poverty in europe. well, did you know that there are two governments that took the commission to the court of justice because the commission had set up a mechanism to help the poorest people in europe? that's the situation! let's be absolutely clear. the commission is in favour of a more ambitious europe in terms of governance, fair growth and greater social justice at european level. but at the same time we must have parliament and the member states on our side. and you have to fight for it. so, in my view, it would be completely misguided to attack the commission when it has been at the forefront of the struggle for a more social, fairer, more equitable europe and for much more serious governance. at the same time, let's be absolutely clear about that, too. i think it is not serving europe when we say that the current problem is europe's problem, as if there is no responsibility on the part of some governments, who have allowed their debt to reach unsustainable levels, or their banks to grow at several times their gross domestic product. there is also a responsibility on the part of governments. it's essential, this responsibility. and that is why we must now find answers of solidarity, but also of responsibility. that is why, for example, i am proud that the commission and i have supported the proposal to reduce the interest rates paid by greece, and we are now doing the same for ireland. we think this is right, not only to avoid imposing extremely heavy costs on our fellow citizens in greece or ireland, but also to ensure debt sustainability. and so it is in this spirit of solidarity and responsibility that we can find common answers which will also, i hope, help to avoid a problem which some of you have mentioned and which concerns me, namely the problem of a certain division in europe, namely a division between north and south, between centre and periphery. i believe that the europe we want to build is a europe of solidarity, not a europe of first and second class, but a europe in which all europeans can recognize themselves. i have already defended, in word and in deed, the financial transaction tax in the g20 on behalf of the european union. this was rejected by a huge number of our g20 partners. the question that we are now discussing is whether, at european level, we can or we should have a financial transaction tax or not. let's be honest, once again. several member states fundamentally oppose it. they will not agree. what i said at the last european council was that the commission is now making impact assessments of different options for the financial sector and will soon come forward with proposals. it was very important that the commission made that announcement to the european council because at least in the conclusions of the european council there is a commitment to look at the proposals that the commission will put forward for financial taxation. i believe that, in terms of justice, it is important that the financial sector and to a large extent at least some of the behaviour in the financial sector was at the origin of this crisis also contributes to the response to the crisis. i think this is basic in terms of fairness. that is my own position and, i have no doubt, the commission's position. i will come forward with proposals on this matter. the same goes for the ccctb. there is some opposition in some quarters in the council, but the commission has put forward the proposal and we will fight for it because we believe the ccctb is important for the completion of the single market. this is exactly the approach we are defending. we have been discussing process and instruments for a very long time. now is the time to put process and instruments at the service of substance. process and instruments are important, but they are at the service of the substance and cannot substitute for it. the challenge we need to solve is our economic renewal. the truth is that, in order to be able to invest, we need confidence. confidence depends on our capacity to modernise, to innovate and to become more sustainable and more competitive. let us not confuse cause and effect. investment will be attracted if we implement europe 2020 quickly and decisively, and if we pursue our goals of a europe that is sustainable and competitive in the spirit of solidarity and also in solidarity with all member states, including portugal. my friend martin schulz, you know very well that as president of the commission i cannot intervene in portuguese internal politics. if you are no longer president of the socialist group and have other responsibilities, i am sure that you will exercise these new responsibilities in complete independence and will not interfere in the internal affairs of your group. but at the same time i must say that the political crisis in portugal has not made things any easier, and portugal was already in a rather difficult situation. but we, the european institutions, must also respect national democracy, the decisions of the parliament, and we now hope that portugal will find the best solutions. in any case, the commission is at portugal's side in finding the best solutions, within the framework of, of course, portugal's respect for the commitments it has made and certain responsibilities which portugal also has towards its european partners. i believe that it is in this spirit of active solidarity and responsibility that we can respond to the crisis. today i have seen a rather pessimistic feeling here, it is true. moreover, as elected representatives of the people of europe, you reflect the prevailing sentiment in europe. but while we are right to be concerned, i believe we must have the political courage and foresight to show confidence in our european project, because i believe that it is not with pessimism that we will be able to restore confidence in europe. the commission is ready to continue to work enthusiastically with you, with the european council, with the council, with all the institutions, for a stronger, more sustainable, fairer, fairer and more competitive europe. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the european council - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad to be able to speak before such a large audience, the largest since i became president of the council, but i think i know that you have not come to this chamber just for me. first of all, i want to thank you for all your comments, both positive and negative. this struck me all the more because in the european council we must have unanimity and we are trying to have unanimity with all your colleagues, from all your parties, prime ministers and heads of state. there are socialists, there are christian democrats, there are conservatives, there are liberals, all belonging to your political families and, every time, we try and still manage to get agreements among them. i was told earlier that i was to be the idealist of service, the maker of dreams! i do not think that is my role, but what i do, in any case, to the extent possible - and the president of the commission is a witness to this - is to ensure that in most cases there is a convergence between the commission's proposals and the outcome of the european council. i give you the example of the task force, where the commission's proposals were the basis of the task force on economic governance, and where the result is very close to the commission's proposals. and i will try, or we will try with parliament, to improve these proposals still further. so my role is a role of consensus-seeker, but also in the most community-oriented sense possible, and i believe that in some crucial areas i have succeeded in fulfilling this role. as regards the 'euro plus' pact - you know, the little paper that was the starting point for our discussions, and the final document of the 'euro plus' pact - many of you, even from sceptical political groups, have said that your country should join the 'euro plus' pact. that's probably because he's not that bad. we have managed to find a compromise between ambitious targets, to keep economies competitive and public finances sustainable, and national implementation, because in most cases these are national decisions that have to be made. my second point is a methodological point of some kind. many of the criticisms of europe are justified in substance, but not in accordance with the treaty. for example, the whole nuclear policy, the energy mix, is a matter for national competence, and i can do nothing about it. even the safety and security of nuclear sites is very much a national responsibility. there are community powers, european powers, and the european council's conclusions have now tried to make the most of them. i believe that the commission has never had a more important role in nuclear safety than since the european council a few days ago. but we have to work within the treaty. we have talked about minimum wages in some countries, it is a national competence. we have spoken of inequality, of precariousness, of injustice, but in most cases these are measures within a national framework. but i would add that many of the measures which need to be taken now in terms of competitiveness and public finances are measures which national governments should have taken, even without european constraints. the european level is putting extra pressure because there is a community currency for at least 17 countries that must be defended. but in most countries the measures that must be taken are measures that must be taken in one's own interest, for one's own people, to ensure the future of one's own country. and europe is adding to the pressure. so the european union must not be put on trial. are our governance measures too weak? well, the council will work with the european parliament to improve economic governance and, as in other cases, i am sure that compromises will be found. there may be a governor of a central bank in one of the 17 countries who has some criticism of economic governance, but i can quote other governors, other directors of countries neighbouring the netherlands, who have a completely opposite view. if necessary, i will give you the names and i will give you the quotes, it's a little bit easier to work like that. as for the present crisis, ladies and gentlemen, there is a future, and there are instruments on which important decisions have been taken, but there is of course the past. i told you, the past, we have to deal with it. even with the best instruments that can be invented - ease, stability, treaty change, economic governance, the pact - we are not solving the problems of countries in difficulty, we are not solving the problems of banks that are still under pressure. so there's the future and there's the past. as regards the past, there is a lack of policy in some member states and there has been a lack of policy at european level. let's be critical enough of ourselves. but what we have to ensure, and we will, and we have already taken the necessary measures, is that this crisis does not happen again in the future. but in the meantime, as i said, we have to deal with the legacy of the past, both in the case of some countries you know that are under the programme - such as greece and ireland - and in other countries where measures are being taken to avoid them being under the programme. could we have taken these measurements a year ago? no, you can't! have there been any major mistakes in the past? the stability and growth pact was undermined seven or eight years ago. if we had not done that, we would have had much more effective instruments and we could have avoided many crises. as regards economic growth, ladies and gentlemen, since 2010 we have had an average economic growth of 2%, which is the average for the decade from 1999 to 2008. we have economic growth in 2010. we have an average economic growth of two percent in 2011. is there more to be done? of course, more needs to be done. is public investment the only instrument? no, not at all! the internal market, the single market is something extremely important. we need to dig deeper. there are proposals from the commission on the table and we will come back to them in a few weeks' time at the european council in june, and we will also return to this subject in the autumn. finally, there is much to be said about libya. but without europe, without european leadership, we would have had a bloodbath in libya. without europe, there would have been massacres. some of you have been very critical of the european union. we made it in time! and without europe, nothing would have been done at the global level, at the un level. after all the criticisms that have been made, i think we have a right to that truth too. have we sinned in some way in the past or have we adopted the right policies? no, you can't! did we make up? i know! and here the credit for the correction goes to the european union. (applause) i would like to thank one last word in my own language. i have heard therestraks mijnheer eppink, die teleurgesteld was. i am disappointed in so much intellectual dishonesty. i'm not going to die. but yesterday with a photo standing waving, knowing that i was in office and that it was not my personal conviction, i must say that i was very disappointed in my eppink.
in writing. mr president, the eu has made a quantum leap in economic integration in recent weeks. the euro plus pact sets us on the road to intensive economic cooperation, while respecting the traditions of social dialogue as they exist in the member states. but of course, the work must not stop here. we must now launch phase two, paving the way for european investment projects that will also put our eu 2020 agenda into practice. the commission president barroso said he would propose a financial transaction tax. we must use these resources to make the much needed crossborder investments, particularly in energy infrastructure, supplemented by european project bonds and public-private partnership funds. this is the only way to convince the citizens that europe is, more than ever, their guarantee of a prosperous future.
i have abstained on the provera report, firstly because i find it very lacking in clarity. the report says and proposes a lot of things, sometimes even sensible things, which is strange in this parliament. but first and foremost, it is unfortunately a report of complete political correctness, which does not dare to question, in one place, in one paragraph or one sentence, the new mass immigration into the already overpopulated continent of europe, because it is mainly about the countries of the former western europe. my own country, flanders, is the most densely populated country in the european union. the vast majority of flemings do not want new immigration, especially from countries whose cultures and religions espouse values that are totally hostile to ours. it is high time that the european parliament listened to its own european citizens.
i abstained in the final vote on the svensson report and i therefore use my explanation of vote to say that for me too, of course, violence against women is shocking and unacceptable. i have, however, abstained from the final vote because i believe that this report is really full of breaches of the principle of subsidiarity which i cherish and i do not believe that the creation of new european bureaucracies, observatories or other institutions is desirable, on the contrary. i am also disturbed by the political correctness that has led to the absence of the word 'islam' in this report, even though this religion, full of backward standards and principles, obviously plays a major role in the marginalization of women and violence against women. in the muslim world, it's a given, but unfortunately, it's also a given in our world. let us call a cat a cat and islam in its present reality backward and misogynistic.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be more active in the fight against terrorism and for the eu to be more active in the fight against terrorism. the eu is failing to take clear responsibility at a time when the situation in north africa is triggering large migration flows. frontex cannot be the only instrument in tackling the refugee crisis. europe also urgently needs to develop a burden-sharing action plan to help resettle refugees from the region and to provide support to displaced people. i regret that in the present circumstances the suspension of the eu-libya cooperation agreement seemed to be the only option available. the first concern in such agreements should not be to tighten up border controls on the union but to monitor the ratification and compliance with the geneva convention. i hope that the resolution is a first step towards a more comprehensive approach to the refugee problem, so that people are approached in a more humane way.
in writing. − this report is very welcome as it highlights the special role of women in farms and rural areas, while offering solutions to existing challenges. these solutions help to make rural working and living conditions more attractive to women. part of this solution is affordable and accessible access to support services, care facilities such as nurseries, outpatient care centres, etc. and the infrastructure to support them. it is also proposed to use eu funding to improve the quality of rural life. it is also essential to increase the opportunities for school, vocational and academic training and further training, as well as to improve the social security of women in rural areas. this will not only benefit rural women but also bring sustainable development to the rural area as an integrated economic and living space.
in writing. what if the farmer is the future of the common agricultural policy? this statement is somewhat provocative, but it is largely justified when one refers to the importance of the female population in rural life and on the farm. statistics show that in the european union, women farmers represent 43% of the agricultural workforce and 20% of women are farm managers, not to mention spouses whose work is often not recorded. in the age of specialisation of farms, the creative spirit of women is an undeniable plus which, coupled with their greater concern for a sustainable and quality environment, deserves to be recognised and supported at european level. this is the choice made this afternoon by the european parliament, which, in adopting the jeggle report, underlined the importance that women will play in the future in the revaluation of the rural environment. as the rapporteur rightly says in the explanatory statement: 'experience shows that the quality of life and economic power depend, mainly in rural areas, on the presence and commitment of women'. a simple, modern way of looking at farming in a new way.
in writing. i am pleased with the adoption of mrs jeggle's report, in which i was personally involved. the cap has a social value in recognising the fundamental role of women in preserving the future prospects of life and prosperity in rural areas (considering that 41% of the 14.6 million people employed in agriculture in the european union are women). these include promoting women's entrepreneurship and skills in agriculture, equipping rural areas with modern infrastructure to enable them to reconcile work and family life (through the creation of crèches, for example), aiming for greater representation of women in the political, economic and social bodies of the agricultural sector (with a clear aim of absolute parity), establishing adequate social security for women working in agriculture and ensuring shared ownership of agricultural holdings. if 'the first equality is equity', the recognition of the role of women in agriculture is taking on a new dimension.
in writing. - lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria had old soviet-era nuclear power stations which the international community considered could not be upgraded to minimum safety standards at economically viable costs. the accession negotiations were used to close the three nuclear power plants on pre-agreed dates and then to dismantle them. over the period 1999-2013, eur 2.7 billion was allocated to this purpose. at the end of 2009, eur 1.8 billion of this had already been committed. however, there is a considerable delay in the implementation of the decommissioning programmes. the european parliament fears that this delay will lead to dangers for the environment and human health. i am also pleased with this report because the european parliament fully endorsed my amendments to the committee on budgetary control, which call for absolute transparency in the management of the funds and the spending of the funds. the european parliament also agreed to my request that the commission should report to the european parliament annually and inform it whether the forecast that the financial resources allocated can be absorbed over the next three years is being fulfilled. this report provides the basis for following this process very closely, and that is a good thing from many points of view.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, but also in favour of the amendment calling for a revision of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). because what i regret is that the egf, in its present form, does not require an inquiry into the financial health, tax evasion or state aid situation of multinational companies whose restructuring justifies the intervention of the egf. i believe that this issue should be addressed in the next revision of the egf regulation, without calling into question the access of workers who have been made redundant to the egf.
in writing. − the control of exports of dual-use goods - that is, goods which can be used for both civilian and military purposes - is of the utmost importance for the non-proliferation of weapons. the ep's position rightly incorporates the achievements of the lisbon treaty into eu law. the ep also strengthens democratic control and transparency and enhances the eu's image in international export control regimes. it is also positive that the commission is required to report on the operation of this regulation, accompanied by a comprehensive impact assessment. the most difficult point of discussion between the council, the ep and the commission in all this is the question of when the control of the notification and registration of exports should take place: before or after the actual export. i think it is crucial that this check be carried out before the export event. in practice, checking after the fact will always lead to us being behind the facts. the ep has just decided to go for ex post checks only. that is why i voted against the final version of the report.
in writing. violence against women is a problem that is both international and european in scope. domestic violence, prostitution, trafficking, it is deplorable to see that we are still unable to protect women from violence in our societies. such gender-based violence constitutes a violation of fundamental freedoms and rights, as well as of the rights to security and human dignity. in this matter, it is a question of preserving the integrity of the victims, but also of safeguarding the main collective interests of society, such as freedom and democracy. the european union must take its responsibilities by introducing legislation to put an end to this violence. i therefore voted for the introduction of measures such as a mechanism to facilitate access to free legal aid, a financial assistance system to promote the autonomy of victims and to facilitate their return to normal life and the world of work. respect for human rights is a fundamental value enshrined in the treaty on european union. let us also respect women's rights!
on behalf of the alde group. – we all agree that the european union is more than just a common market and that it is also a political project to ensure that there is democracy on the continent, and that the rule of law and human rights are upheld, promoted and strengthened. if this were not the case, i do not think there would be much difference between us and china. this is the case in all member states, including hungary. the government there has now issued a new draft constitution that is due to be adopted in mid-april. it contains some worrying – in my opinion – references to voting rights for minors, bans on abortion, bans on same-sex marriages, irredentism and curbing institutions to see that they carry out the government’s will. president barroso, what will the commission do to defend the common european constitutional principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights as set out in article 2 of our treaty, when these are at stake in member states, as is the case today in hungary?
on behalf of the alde group. – president of the commission, i understand your answer, but you know that all 27 member states have to modify their constitutions in accordance with european values. hungary did that before the accession to the union. there are even countries that have done this after accession. poland is doing it at the moment; france is also doing it because there are contradictions between the lisbon treaty and some articles of the french constitution. it is important that you also oblige hungary, even after its adoption of the new constitution, to apply these principles also. it is important for the commission to look into this.
reporting on fraud and irregularities is very important for the legislator, because it gives us an insight into the way the funds are spent. it gives us insight into what might be wrong. it gives us insight into what can be improved. in this context, the present report is of great importance. i think that after the debate in the committee on the fight against fraud in this parliament we can maintain the following conclusions: first, the reports must be more precise. the real extent of irregularities and fraud must be effectively understood; secondly, the member states must improve their reporting. it 's not happening at its best , and i 'll use a nice word: not optimal. we must therefore put pressure on the member states, if necessary with sanctions. thirdly, the funds unduly spent must indeed be recovered and the commission must take the necessary measures to do so. we shall also discuss this at the discharge next month in strasbourg. italy is a problem child in this respect. fourthly, we must monitor more closely the compulsory reporting of irregularities by the member states. it is particularly strange that spain and france should fail to do so. i am the permanent rapporteur on own resources and i would also like to thank and congratulate the commission and especially olaf, the anti-cigarette and anti-tobacco fraud unit. the results there are astonishing and very good. the diabolo ii operation - it has been said - was a magnificent cooperation operation and so were the agreements made with british american tobacco and with imperial tobacco. it's worth 500 million euros to us. but this money must not just disappear into the coffers of the member states. this money really needs to be used, both by the commission and, above all, by the member states, to strengthen the anti-fraud measures in the member states. that's really a very important thing. the money raised by this agreement should be used to fight fraud.
mr hartong, i listened to your speech very carefully, but i also listened to mr geier, who said at one point that two net payers, the united kingdom and the netherlands, are also in serious default. what are you going to do in your own country, after having condemned the whole group of other member states, to ensure that the netherlands does not default as well?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the single market was a source of hope for european consumers when it was created. but as time went on, they seriously questioned the benefits that it could bring to their daily lives. i am thinking particularly of e-commerce, which is still underused because of a lack of trust. i am also thinking of the lack of protection for passengers and the failure of the member states to comply with the regulations on this matter. i am thinking of the persistent lack of european status for mutuals and associations. i am also thinking of the total lack of transparency in the financial services, but i know, commissioner, that you are working very hard on these matters. to restore citizens' confidence and finally make this single market work effectively, we need to take ambitious and targeted measures. that is what we are proposing in the three reports we are debating today. i particularly welcome the inclusion of the horizontal social clause and services of general interest, the first step towards a more social europe. it is our duty as institutions - and i have confidence in you, commissioner - to translate our proposals for a single market for citizens into concrete action as soon as possible.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the widely acclaimed report by former commissioner monti, in which he calls for the further development and completion of the internal market as 'a prerequisite for a highly competitive social market economy', has been quickly adopted by the european parliament. it is undeniable that the financial and economic crisis has hit europe hard. the further development of the single market, which is the largest market in the world, is one of our main assets in this respect. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. adequate access to capital markets, facilitation of online trading and a first step towards a common consolidated corporate tax base. the common man is also involved: study abroad, safety of toys, cheaper roaming charges. we cannot stress this enough as european policy-makers. the challenges are not small, ladies and gentlemen, and we must work towards a fully-fledged framework for an internal market for online services. with these three reports the european parliament is sending a clear signal that we are committed to reforming the internal market. let's make this work consistently.
in writing. − with the lisbon treaty, tourism is now also more strongly placed in the eu's sphere of competence. the statistics provide, of course, fundamental insights and provide interesting guidelines not only at eu level but also at national and regional level. for my home region, the german-speaking community of belgium, tourism is not only an important skill, but also an economically important aspect. these statistics are therefore an essential element of policy orientation. but here too, it is clear that the different levels - regional, national and crossborder - must interact to define the tourist location of europe's regions, especially in border areas.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i am opposed to the further increase in parliament's budget. parliament is selling this exercise as a reduction in parliament's budget, when in reality it is a reduction in the rate of increase in the resources used. a freeze on expenditure seems more appropriate in these times of crisis and austerity. the amendments calling for some austerity were all voted down (no business class for flights under four hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours); no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours; no air travel for flights under five hours). the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i also voted for the abolition of the museum of european history project. it is not because i do not find such a project interesting or important, but because i do not think that such a project should be set up by a parliament with funding from the ep budget. moreover, the project now planned for brussels is totally out of control in terms of cost. that is why i voted for the amendment which expressly states that the cost centre should be more closely monitored.
in writing. the european parliament has shown an unknown weakness by rejecting this afternoon (328 votes in favour/ 323 against, but an absolute majority of 369 votes was required) a resolution refusing to add a health claim to infant formula for infants under 12 months of age. this was a classic case of opposing the opinion of the european food safety authority. in the present case, efsa has authorised manufacturers of infant formula to mention that the synthesised version of dha, a fatty acid naturally present in breast milk, 'contributes to normal visual development in infants up to 12 months of age'. this is without any scientific proof, as confirmed by a letter sent to meps this morning by the world health organisation. i am bitterly sorry that this is a slap in the face to a large number of european actors: the european family confederation, the european consumers' association and the standing committee of european doctors, who were simply asking not to consider infants as mere consumers. i regret that parliament has simply forgotten to put common sense and ethics at the forefront of european food safety policies.
in writing. − i naturally share the view that political parties and the political foundations associated with them are essential instruments of parliamentary democracy. they do hold members of parliament to account, help shape the political will of citizens, draw up political programmes, train and select candidates, maintain dialogue with citizens and allow citizens to express their views. in addition, the lisbon treaty expressly provides for this role of political parties and their foundations. they are an important part of a political space at eu level and of a european democracy of which the european citizens' initiative is an essential part. i have voted against this report in the final vote to show that i am totally opposed to the rejection of amendment no 10. this amendment prohibited legal persons and companies from being able to make donations up to eur 25 000 per year under the financing and donations scheme. the fact that the ep allows this is a bad practice which opens the door to strong influence on political parties and european foundations through the granting of financial support by companies and lobbying organisations. i don't want to, which is why i'm voting against it.
in writing. − this report is of great importance as it looks at how the single market, as a key eu priority, can bring even more benefits to european citizens and businesses by making the actors involved work together more efficiently. in addition to dialogue and partnership between the actors involved, such as national parliaments, local and regional authorities and the social partners, and increased coordination, simplification of existing rules is also called for, and more efficient implementation by the member states is emphasised. in the context of this report, i particularly welcome the recognition of the important role of eures in facilitating the free movement of workers, as this contact point is of the utmost importance, particularly in border regions. but the measures for smes, which are to be provided with clear information on the internal market, are also of great importance.
in writing. − this report looks at the 19 initiatives proposed by the commission which put european citizens at the centre of the single market while aiming at a sustainable social market economy. i particularly welcome this report because it is of benefit to european citizens, especially those in border regions. the measures envisaged will mainly facilitate the daily lives of citizens and businesses in border regions. this report welcomes the initiatives on the recognition of vocational qualifications and 'youth on the move'. the commission will also be seeking to identify and remove tax obstacles and to take a firm stance on the avoidance of double taxation. the european union is also calling for fair working conditions for all europeans and full transferability of pension rights. these measures put citizens at the centre of the internal market and provide concrete measures to meet their specific needs.
that's right, for or against nuclear power goes through different factions. i do not understand why, after fukushima, the eyes of everyone have not been opened to this subject. the unthinkable has happened. a combination of factors has led to a catastrophe that is perfectly conceivable in our world. there is no such thing as zero risk. today, it takes three steps. firstly, the stress test, as the commissioner has proposed, in all openness, in all transparency and making sure that it is as broad as possible. but we must also make sure that we draw conclusions from this stress test. not safe: shut it down! secondly, we must ensure that we organise a phase-out of nuclear energy. it is not possible that nuclear power stations built for a life of 30 years will remain open after 40 or even 50 years. thirdly, it would be too much to ask if we in this european union were to opt for new nuclear power stations. there is only one way forward in europe, and that is through renewable energy, and we must seek consensus in this parliament.
in writing. yes, we have to get out of nuclear, that's obvious. but we cannot do this overnight. in belgium alone, 55% of our electricity comes from nuclear power. how would we get heat, food and light if we decided to close all the power stations tomorrow? that is why we must act on two levels. firstly, by raising the safety standards of existing power stations, in particular through the stress tests which are currently being carried out in the member states. beyond the necessary harmonization of these tests at european level, we must be as transparent as possible with our citizens. confidence in our nuclear energy must be restored. secondly, by stepping up our research and innovation to develop solutions as quickly as possible that save energy and promote sustainable and efficient renewable energy. the cheapest, least polluting and least dangerous energy is the energy that is not consumed. these efforts require binding regulation and massive investment at european level and in the member states.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, we are very aware of the intense diplomatic efforts that mrs ashton has made and continues to make, and we are also aware of the difficulties of the situations she is facing. indeed, whether in syria or yemen or bahrain, these are countries with which we have no agreements, apart from trade agreements, which contain no clauses, for example, on human rights, and we have very few levers. nevertheless, i would like to say three things. firstly, in relation to the people's aspirations, in relation to those who are in the streets today, under sniper fire, we must not only stand behind them, but also at all costs bring an end to the violence. i saw a syrian dissident today. what these dissidents are asking for, ultimately, is an end to violence so that they can speak out. and on that, i would say that even if we don't have an agreement with syria, we should use at that point all the sanctions we can have, if necessary, to stop this violence. the second thing i wanted to say is that these are generally countries - and this was the case with the gulf countries and libya as well - that we have armed and over-armed. i think that the minimum is to have better arms controls so that these countries and governments do not turn into powder kegs capable of turning against their own people. and finally, the question of double standards. i would like to say that we have been very cautious in relation to bahrain, and we have been very firm in relation to other countries. i know that bahrain is a particularly delicate situation, that saudi arabia has sent troops there and that saudi arabia and the gulf council are helping us against libya, but we would not trade the price of a barrel of oil and our support against the libyan government for the price of silence in relation to the shiites who are now being repressed by the government of bahrain.
i must admit that i was stunned to note the three principles put forward by the minister: rejecting violence, promoting dialogue to resolve some differences and grievances, and of course the political reforms that are needed. now, at this point, just calling for dialogue is not really going to make a difference and is not really credible. i think the european union should be much more forceful in enforcing these democratic reforms. we hear that the high representative has many official contacts, but how does she maintain contacts with civil society, how is she listened to? the european union must immediately stop supplying arms to the region, as has already been said by colleagues. if i see that, for example, no less than eight european member states supplied yemen with arms worth over 100 million euros last year alone, what does this european common position on arms exports propose? should not something be done about this urgently?
the forthcoming un summit on the least developed countries is a good opportunity to debate the meaning and the absurdity of development aid. the so-called aid quantity argument, the proposition that the more aid is given, the more economic development comes, has completely failed. i would like to use my speaking time to quote the kenyan economist james shikwati from der spiegel online of 7 april 2005. development aid maintains large bureaucracies, encourages corruption and complacency, and teaches africans to beg rather than to be self-reliant. moreover, development aid weakens local markets and dampens the entrepreneurial spirit that we so badly need. as absurd as it may sound, development aid is one of the causes of africa's problems. if the west stopped those payments, ordinary africans wouldn't even notice. only officials would be hit hard. so instead of giving more money, there should be less corruption, more entrepreneurship and more self-reliance. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted by a large majority) )
yes, i do agree with some of what mr berman says. we are indeed responsible for allowing dictators to remain in power. i am thinking, for example, of european policy towards cuba, where we have seen that fidel castro is considered a partner with whom one can talk. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank our colleague, mr janusz wojciechowski, for his report which stresses the importance of appropriate legislation in this area. however, whether the vaccine is live attenuated or inactivated, as far as we know at present, blood tests cannot identify the origin of the presence of the pathogenic organism in the animal's blood, i.e. vaccine or wild origin. therefore, until an inactive vaccine marked i.e. a vaccine whose pathogenic organism is of vaccine origin is developed, it will be impossible to distinguish between a vaccinated animal and an animal infected with the virus. this is a prerequisite for a region or country to be declared free of contamination. there is a high risk that countries free of contamination will create trade barriers to countries that use the inactivated vaccine. the european union should therefore encourage further research into an inactivated vaccine marked for increased biosafety within the union, which will allow a more effective combination of health and commercial approaches.
in writing. the eu's response to the disaster in japan is the right one: we reacted quickly without panicking. we have immediately opened the way for a thorough investigation under european supervision. it is crucial that 1. the stress tests are carried out by independent experts, and 2. the results of those tests are implemented seamlessly. that is to say, nuclear installations which do not meet the standards, which go under the radar, are shut down. of course, the plants elsewhere in europe, outside the eu, must be subjected to the same independent tests, under the supervision of the international atomic energy agency. the member states which do not wish to participate in this process are declaring themselves international pariahs, including in the field of international trade. nuclear energy is and will remain a transitional technology, which unfortunately will be with us for decades to come. we will even have to make new investments to meet our energy needs while stifling our climate ambitions. during that time we must do everything possible to reduce the risk of accidents to a level that borders on zero.
in writing. - this resolution cannot cover all aspects of the debate on nuclear energy in depth. i am convinced that we must aim to phase out this energy source and to increase the use of renewable energy sources. amendment no 10 also proposed that in the case of nuclear power plants in border areas, local and regional authorities should be involved in decisions both within and beyond the borders. this amendment was not adopted and so although there were good aspects to the resolution, this amendment 10 was decisive for me. i therefore take the view that the commission should be given the opportunity to present its proposals to the council.
in writing. i am angry that the european parliament has rejected this afternoon the resolution on such an essential issue as the lessons to be learned from the fukushima nuclear disaster. for our institution, there would be no before and after of march 11, 2011. but the strong signals were there! it was not too difficult to agree on simple principles: support for the commission to carry out with the member states these 'stress tests' in the 143 nuclear reactors in operation in europe; a precise timetable for 15 april on the criteria chosen: independence of expertise, priority given to the safety of nuclear sites that are inherently more dangerous because they are located in seismic or coastal areas, and communication of safety reports to the public; immediate closure of plants that fail the 'stress tests'. the european citizens expect our institution to be responsible and to exercise common sense, especially on such controversial subjects as atomic energy. it is perhaps not a bad thing that the choice of energy, and therefore the choice of whether or not to abandon nuclear energy, remains an exclusively national competence.
in writing. - we have not reached agreement today on this resolution which should draw lessons from the fukushima nuclear disaster. the greens have been advocating the phase-out of nuclear energy for years, because the risks to people and the environment are unacceptably high and alternatives are widely available. fukushima has made that clear once again. it is sad that the liberals and the christian democrats continue to believe in their nuclear dreams. even if, as is clear today in japan and chernobyl, they turned into nightmares. and even then, many do not want to wake up from their evil atomic dream. the only truly safe nuclear energy is not nuclear energy. the amendment calling for the phasing out of nuclear energy was voted down. a majority of this parliament still does not seem to understand that it is technically and economically perfectly feasible to generate our electricity in a totally sustainable way, including through energy efficiency, in 40 years' time, using solar, wind, geothermal, water and biomass. the nuclear lobby seems to be winning for now. that is why i am voting against the final vote!
author. − mr president, this is the first time that i have participated in a thursday afternoon debate, so there are some lessons i think i can pick up for the conference of presidents with regard to making the plenary session more attractive. i am pleased that this point has been put on the agenda, because the case of mr ai wei wei is quite a dramatic, as the latest information we have is that there is certainly no intention on the part of the chinese authorities to release him. the best thing we can do is to approve the urgent resolution we have agreed together with all the groups so that we can increase pressure on the chinese authorities. i have to tell you that i have my doubts that this resolution will change anything in the attitude of the chinese communist party and the chinese authorities. what we are in fact doing on human rights with the chinese is a game. we are talking about human rights, they are saying they will open a dialogue and we think that things have changed. nothing shall changes. that is the reality. we have the nobel prize-winner who could not attend the meeting in oslo. we now have mr ai wei wei, who is a well-known artist and was one of the last dissidents who had the possibility to say something. the only thing we can say is in an urgent resolution in which we deplore what is happening. in any case, i had hoped that we could ask why we should continue to participate in fora that the chinese communist party organises with our political parties. i deplore that there was not enough support from the other groups to come to an agreement on that. we could at least have agreed on a principle of not continuing to participate in fora with the chinese communist party, if mr wei wei and other dissidents were not released. for that reason at least i hoped for the support of all the groups here – with the other amendment the greens tabled, even if the best part of it was eliminated. yes, it is true, they tabled a fantastic amendment and then eliminated the best part! ok it was not their fault, but apparently the fault of others. (interruption by the president) i may be taking a minute more than i usually do, but for mr ai wei wei it will take ten years longer, apparently. if we can speak in favour of somebody who may be in jail for years, one minute longer is not too much, mr president!
for the greens/efa group madam president, i would like to continue by reacting to a number of things that have been said and i will start with what catherine trautmann said. we are told - and it is true - that the radio spectrum is a scarce commodity. i would first like to emphasize that this is a matter of common interest. it is a good which no one can claim as his exclusive property. so, for us, no actor whatsoever can claim to have some sort of pre-emptive right, acquired right, over the spectrum, and i think that's something that's established by this relationship. if it is a common and rare commodity, it is useful, on the one hand, to understand the use made of it today. hence the idea of a broad and comprehensive examination of the current use of spectrum by all actors, including those just mentioned by mr giles, namely, for example, the civil security services and even the military. it is really important to understand what the real use of this scarce resource is today because, in our opinion, it is far from optimal. on the other hand, it is a question of having a transparent process for allocating this rare property, but also sufficiently dynamic, to avoid the creation of new logics of acquired rights. i would also like to draw attention to the principles of allocation and auctioning of spectrum because indeed, not all uses are necessarily commercial in nature and therefore do not necessarily generate profits. i am thinking of course of the cultural dimension, as has been emphasized, but also of the use of public services - let us speak of civil security services - and even of military use. if we apply exclusively a market logic, we obviously run the risk of giving priority - or, at any rate, exaggerated rights - to market players whose size is known to create market distortions, in other words, small players do not always have the opportunity to compete with them. finally, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the exponential use of the radio spectrum also has implications for public health. i know that is not the subject of the report, but i think we will have to keep a very close eye on this because our citizens are worried.
- i'm the reporter. president. - ladies and gentlemen, i must congratulate you on the fact that for the first time in many years the council is present in this debate on discharge. we are very grateful to you for that. 22.6 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen, that is the amount that the 10th european development fund will spend over the period 2008-2013. the european development fund is thus the main financial instrument of the european union for development cooperation with the acp countries. the 10th edf is in fact very important in terms of financial commitment and 64% larger than its predecessor, the 9th edf. i would like to make five comments. the first point is that the european development fund has not been part of the regular eu budget until now. this is unacceptable, because it makes democratic control more difficult, leads to a lack of accountability and certainly does not ensure transparency of funding. in my report i remind the commission that in the discussions on the future financial framework it has committed itself to ensuring that the european development fund does indeed become a full part of the european budget. i hope that will happen now and i hope, mr president-in-office, that you will take that to the council, to the member states, to ensure that the european development fund does indeed become a full part of the union budget from 2014. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. second point: quantity is one thing, quality is another. as regards regular development cooperation, the european commission has committed itself to allocating 20% of its aid to primary and secondary education and primary health care. in my report i ask that the same be done for the european development fund. focus primarily on primary and secondary education, health care and even increase that amount to 25% of the total. cooperation with ngos, both local ngos and european ngos, is essential. the third point concerns financial management. the european court of auditors has examined the financial management of the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds in a very thorough manner, not only in the annual report but also in the many special reports, and has made very good comments, very valuable comments. there are, however, some concerns, such as the shortcomings identified in relation to public procurement procedures, the shortcomings in the prior checks at the european commission delegations and the failing internal control system in the partner countries. the court of auditors explicitly notes that the problem is not one of fraud but of shortcomings. i think we should take that. there is indeed a far too high number of unquantifiable errors. i hope you will also address this question to your colleague, commissioner. something has to be done. fourth comment: budgetary support. the comment on budget support is part of a wider debate. charles goerens is in the audience; he is the rapporteur in the committee on development cooperation for the green paper on budgetary support. we all recognise that budget support can be an important element in improving development cooperation. it is not merely a saving method, but it also has a number of drawbacks. the advantage is that transaction costs are low, that there is an increased own responsibility of the partner countries, of a better dialogue between partners and donors, but at the same time there is of course the risk of embezzlement, of undesirable use of funds. i think that debate will be taken up in future debates here in parliament. fifth and final observation: the investment facility. the investment facility is a vehicle used by the european investment bank to channel loans to our partner countries. that mechanism is not currently covered by the discharge nor by the court of auditors' declaration of assurance. that is not acceptable. we have to make some adjustments. the positive aspect of this is that there was a very good debate between the representatives of the european investment bank and the members of the committee on budgetary control. they also submitted a report for the first time. i think we can learn a lot from that. my report makes a number of important comments on this. we also give a number of contracts to the european investment bank and to the european commission. we are asking for better coordination of resources. the european investment bank, the european commission, we are actually asking for a review of the actions of the european investment bank by the end of september this year in order to be able to start the next discharge with good documentation, we are asking for a greater involvement of local partners where the investment bank co-finances projects, we are asking for more direct and less theoretical reporting and we are asking for a general audit of the entire resources of the european investment bank. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that i am presenting a rigorous evaluation of the operation of the european development fund, but i think it is a fair evaluation. i think my report offers a number of ways of improving the management of development cooperation funds and i therefore urge you to adopt my report by a large majority.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the committee on transport and tourism has not been able to say only positive things in its opinion, as the previous committee did. nevertheless, we welcomed the fact that the commitment to the trans-european networks was very strong and that galileo had a very good year in 2009 at last, which unfortunately was not the case in previous years. we also found that the coordinators of the transeuropean networks do a good job because they also contribute to a large extent to the overall financing scheme of these major projects. we believe that other items which are important to this parliament, such as road safety, should be improved. only 73% of the appropriations have been committed. we believe that this programme can continue and work better, especially with reduced resources. finally, i would like to say that we want to see greater coordination between transport and cohesion policy. it is not acceptable that we set priorities in one committee and other committees do not take any account of this. but that coordination is currently taking place in the evaluations we are carrying out. we hope to report better results in 2010.
i would like to speak on behalf of the green group. first of all, the commission. i very much appreciate the approach of mr chatzimarkakis. i think he's handled these discharge exercises in a brilliant way. he has focused in advance on a number of issues in a very specific way, he has put six questions to the commission and i must say that we have got what we asked for. i should also like to thank the commission. this is my 12th discharge. i think this is the first time we have worked together in such a constructive way; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. they have met both the shadow rapporteurs and the main rapporteur on several occasions and i think that, thanks to the constructive dialogue, we have achieved a great deal. i very much agree with what mr gerbrandy has said. we are in a time of austerity; so we have to be good with our money. indeed, 80% of the european budget is spent and managed by the member states. the political responsibility, mr president-in-office, of shared management must finally be taken on. that is why we are still calling for a national declaration of control. i think that's a basic requirement. there is also a need for better control. i think that the member states should also be more intensive than they are at present in auditing the resources they spend at european level. the lead rapporteur shall also pay close attention to the detection of cases of misconduct and the recovery of funds or the establishment of corrective mechanisms; i do think that this deserves a great deal of attention and that the comments made there should form the basis for the next discharge exercise under the rapporteurship of mr fjellner. the european parliament: i see our secretary-general sitting next to the vice president. i should like to thank mr welle very much. i was the last parole officer. there was some tension between me and the general secretariat. i wrote a rather strict report at the time, but i must thank mr welle because he and his administration have given excellent answers to all the questions put and have worked very hard. i believe that in the end the tension that existed between us for a while may have led to a better result and probably also to a better budget for the european parliament. i would also like to say to the members here that when we talk about the budget of the european parliament, we must move away from the culture of more, more and never enough. we as an institution must set an example, so we must also dare to save. i would like to make one comment. i have serious reservations about the house of european history in particular, not about the content of the project itself, but about the costs involved. i am of course very pleased that such a house is to be built, but i am extremely sorry that there has never been a serious debate on this project in the plenary. but we are going to spend, if we add up all the figures, about 136 million euros on the house of european history. that is a lot of money, ladies and gentlemen, and there has been no serious debate on it. there's been no debate about where that house should be, what it should look like. it all happens behind closed doors, often in the cenakels of the bureau, and as a democrat, i cannot condone that. as regards the lux-price: the commission has already made a number of comments on this in the report by mr itälä, whom i congratulate on his work. i must say that my group does find the lux prize very valuable. we are certainly prepared to include some critical remarks on the functioning of this prize, but we do consider it valuable that the european parliament is supporting this project, because it means support for valuable film projects. i would also like to say a few words about mr stavrakakis, and i would like to mention one of his reports on the council. i am addressing myself directly to the president of the council, to the hungarian presidency. i find it incredible that the council, which is always transparent with others, is apparently much more reserved when it comes to the council itself. our demand is very simple, mr president-in-office of the council, we simply want, as parliament, as discharge authority, to have access to all documents. we want a public debate on the council budget. we do not want to debate the content of the council budget and say: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000 and whether he is aware that the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000. finally, i would like to make a comment on the agency. we have problems there. we are postponing the discharge because there are obvious problems with the tendering procedures; the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the award of contracts. there are also problems of conflict of interest among experts and staff of the agency. i think that the postponement of this discharge will lead to a debate between now and the autumn and i hope that we can achieve an end to conflicts of interest within the agency as well.
madam president, it is a pleasure to see you here again. i would also like to summarize the debate by saying that the budget of the european union is actually too large. there's just too much money. we cannot spend the money for the european regional fund properly. a large part of it is being misused. that is the conclusion of the court of auditors. the same applies to the budget of the european parliament. we have too much money. we are going to spend money on prestigious projects like the house of european history which may be intended to rewrite history. i would like to speak about the mausoleum for mr poettering, because as i look at the pictures it is beginning to look like that. there is a spending pressure, there is too much money and one cannot spend the money. if i look at the commission's report on the 2010 budget, we see that there is a residual balance, a surplus of eur 194 billion, which has not yet been spent. madam president, when i saw you come in, i thought: you're whiter than white. in the netherlands we would say: you are the white tornado. unfortunately, mr šemeta, i cannot say the same about the budget of the european commission. our budget is not whiter than white, but greyer than grey and darker than darker, and i am very disappointed in that. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
- i'm the reporter. - the president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, at the end of this debate i would like to express my thanks to the court of auditors. we have mr caldeira in our midst. he has not been able to speak now; but he did speak at the beginning of the whole discharge exercise a few months ago in november. i would like to express my sincere thanks to him and his team, his colleagues, because without the work of the court of auditors we would not be able to keep such close watch on the european budget and the budgets of all the sub-institutions. i think they are doing an incredibly important job, not only in their annual report, but also in the many sub-reports, the special reports, that we get from them. i think we have to learn a lesson in that regard. i think that these special reports are not given enough attention in this parliament. i think we should make better use of these special reports, we should debate them not only in the committee on budgetary control but also in the many committees, for example in the committee on development cooperation when it comes to development cooperation; i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, and also the committee on the environment, when it comes to the environment, so that the work you and your colleagues and all your staff are doing is properly appreciated and the european citizens can also see that the money of the european taxpayer is being properly monitored. thank you for all the work.
, in writing. i fully support the decision of the committee on budgetary control to postpone the discharge to the european medicines agency on grounds which i consider to be very serious. i would like to stress in particular the lack of guarantees as to the independence of the experts and the management and, consequently, the potential conflicts of interest. the question arises in particular in the light of the late withdrawal from the market of certain dangerous medicines which have caused many deaths in europe.
in writing. you know my attachment to democratic values... bruno gollnisch, a member of the european parliament and also a leading thinker of the fn, had asked for his parliamentary immunity to be defended because of measures applied by the french authorities in the context of a judicial investigation concerning him as president of the fn in the regional council of rhône-alpes, and of which the international league against racism and anti-semitism had become a civil party in january 2009 for incitement to racial hatred. article 8 of the chapter on the law and procedure applicable to the immunity of members of the european parliament states that members may not be sought, detained or prosecuted on the grounds of opinions or votes expressed by them in the performance of their duties. the constitution of the french republic provides the same in its article 26, second paragraph. at a time when the french fn is crashing in the polls and when there is reason to question the general trivialization of this party (both media and political), i am satisfied that the european parliament does not defend the parliamentary immunity of bruno gollnisch and have asked for it to be lifted so that justice can do its job.
in writing. - the fact that a member who is in danger of losing his parliamentary immunity is not given the opportunity to defend himself in plenary is reason enough to vote against the report calling for the waiver of immunity. it is also outrageous and unworthy of a parliament that members of parliament should lose their immunity and be prosecuted for expressing their opinions. if the european parliament is to be taken seriously by voters in the future, it must defend unequivocally and without compromise the right to freedom of expression of its own members and of all citizens in europe.
in writing. by adopting mrs fraga estévez's report this afternoon, parliament gave its approval to the conclusion by the european union of a binding international agreement to combat illegal fishing, thus demonstrating its commitment to responsible fishing. it should be recalled that illegal fishing remains one of the greatest threats to the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and is as much a scourge as intensive fishing. countering this fishing practice, which undermines marine biological resources and marine ecosystems, is a key objective for the european union. the recent announcement by commissioner maria damanaki of a new fisheries control system ensuring the traceability of fish from the place of capture to the plate is encouraging. i note in particular the introduction on 1 january 2012 of a new points system (up to the withdrawal of the licence) which aims to ensure the uniform treatment of serious infringements, with deterrent fines of at least five times the market value of illegally caught fish. this traceability system, together with the powers of control and sanction given to inspectors posted throughout europe, is an indispensable tool in combating illegal fishing.
in writing. i voted again in favour of the provisions which state that real savings could be made if parliament had only one place of work in the same city as the other institutions of the union (i.e. brussels). the secretary-general's report on the preliminary draft estimates for the financial year 2011 itself points to the exorbitant annual cost of the geographical dispersion of parliament, estimated at some eur 160 000 000, or 9% of the total budget of parliament. it is true that, for the time being, the decision to change this situation and to achieve savings of some eur 160 000 000 per year while significantly reducing the parliament's carbon footprint is entirely a matter for the european council. but by this vote i am inviting the president of parliament and the members who negotiate the union's budget on behalf of parliament to propose to the european council that the union should be able to make these savings.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of mr itälä's report, but i have a reservation on paragraph 113. i am totally opposed to this paragraph, which proposes a new interpretation procedure for the 'working groups'. i cannot agree with it because the proposed system: - is not compatible with the principle of equal treatment of the official languages of the union and of their users; - in the long run undoubtedly leads to the exclusion of languages other than the six mentioned; - it is impossible to organise it in a workable way, simply because the request for a supplementary language may have to be submitted before the member knows the agenda of the sitting; - makes language policy a power game. if we really want to cut back on language issues, we must demand equal efforts from everyone. and if it is no longer considered important for some members to be able to use their language, it is no longer important for other members either. there is therefore only one alternative if the interpreting work in the "working groups" is to be cut back: active and passive use of english and english only. in that case, everyone is equal before the law and there's real cutbacks.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. i particularly wanted to see the development of imports of the products covered by this regulation monitored effectively as early as possible and that customs supervision of imports covered by the regulation be introduced. i also support the idea of presenting a quarterly report on the application and implementation of monitoring.
in writing. the investment policy of the member states must be able to be the subject of coordination and decisions at the level of the european union. the present system is characterized by a myriad of bilateral treaties which overlap, overlap and, in the end, are often contradictory. in the context of the development of a genuine european investment policy, i therefore thought it useful to vote in favour of the obligation on member states, in the event of renegotiation of bilateral treaties or negotiation of new treaties, to provide for a dispute settlement mechanism ensuring that the commission is allowed to participate in the procedure at least as an amicus curiae and that the confidentiality requirements are lifted so as to allow the european executive to intervene in this capacity. i have also asked that, no later than five years after the entry into force of this regulation, the commission submit to the european parliament and the council a report on the situation regarding the review of existing bilateral agreements, in particular the number of bilateral agreements that have been renegotiated by the individual member states.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let us be very open and blunt about this: what we have seen in recent weeks on this issue has been shameful – italy issuing temporary residence permits to refugees from tunisia, then france reacting by reintroducing internal border checks, as if the european union had suddenly ceased to exist. let us be very open and call this by its name: it was a ping-pong game by two governments, and by berlusconi and sarkozy, on the back of refugees who are, in fact, in trouble. that is what has been happening and, in my opinion, it has been disastrous not only for schengen but also for the european union and its image because the reintroduction of internal border checks contradicts the whole essence of the union and the basic principles of the treaty. that point has been made several times here and mr barroso has also made it. moreover, what occurred was absolutely out of proportion. i would not go so far as to echo mr schulz in calling this a marginal problem – 27 000 tunisians do not constitute a marginal problem – but he is right to say that, by comparison with, for example, the 350 000 people who fled from kosovo during the kosovo war, we are clearly not talking about a migration tsunami. and so we come to the problem: the communication from the commission. in my opinion, it was not very clear. the communication states that, as a last resort in truly critical situations, a mechanism may need to be introduced – and, as i read it, that means a new mechanism – allowing for a coordinated and temporary reintroduction of controls. that is the problem with the whole communication because, if this means that the commission is proposing an additional possibility for the reintroduction of border controls, not provided for in the existing schengen acquis, i can tell you that our group will fight such a proposal with all available means, and i hope the entire parliament will do likewise. if, on the contrary, the sentence in question means that the commission wants to restrict the current provision, then that has been foreseen: national security and public order are the two elements covered by the existing schengen acquis. if the intended meaning is that the commission wants to restrict the current provision allowing member states to reintroduce border controls, then, mr barroso, you can have 100% support from our group. so, what i am asking of ms malmström and mr barroso is a rewriting of the communication and specifically of the sentence which states that a new mechanism shall be introduced for the reintroduction of border checks. all they need to do is to state that they will strengthen the existing provision in the schengen acquis.
president, schengen provides that checks at the internal borders of the eu are abolished, but that the external borders are checked. the problem is that the agreement is not being respected, because the external borders are not being controlled effectively. so we must dare to admit that 16 years after the schengen was established, the treaty has not been a success. we must also dare to admit that the eu is not the solution but has become part of the problem. the member states must therefore be given the opportunity to protect their borders without eu interference. more measures are urgently needed. for example, frontex should send back boats with fake refugees to their countries of origin instead of playing some kind of refined reception committee. the networks of traffickers must be dealt with very harshly. member states should stop rewarding illegal aliens with residence permits. illegal and rejected political refugees must be effectively returned. if all that does not happen, i can guarantee you that schengen is finished and that would not be a bad thing. i would also like to protest, mr president, against the use of words here, against abusive terms such as populist, extremist, etc. for people who simply want to protect the borders of their country. this has to stop. this is not correct. we also have to admit that the rules have to be applied; but we are not talking about applying the rules, we are just beginning to scold.
member of the commission. − madam president, this has been a very interesting and good debate on a very important subject. there was talk earlier about a ping-pong game going on. that ping-pong game is probably between the european parliament and two member states, so please do not use the commission as a ball. we are trying to have a coordinated, responsible and coherent response to everything relating to migration and borders because it all goes together. we cannot have a visa policy if we do not have border control. we cannot have credible protection of people who ask for asylum if we do not have a common asylum policy in the european union. we cannot have legal migration that works if we do not also work with integration and we cannot fight irregular migration if we do not have a proper and decent return and readmission policy. so, in order to have all this together, we need a clear framework and we need a european framework. the commission has therefore presented this communication. with all respect to the hard-working people in the commission, i will reveal a secret to you. we cannot produce a communication like this in two days. it is not possible. it has been planned for a long time. this is not a response to one or two presidents or prime ministers – this is something that we have been planning for a long time, and it is all there. those with whom we have been working together on a daily basis will know that since day one i have been working with them and the council to achieve a joint common european asylum system. it is hard work, it is difficult and we are working very slowly, but we are making some progress. we are working together on legal migration, we are trying to reinforce frontex, and i have been promising you a paper on integration since my hearing last february and, already last year, we proposed better governance of schengen. this is not a response to one or two prime ministers calling for something. it is something well thought out and it is something that will lead to further legislation and proposals in the light of the european council meeting in june, which will have as a theme – also planned for a long time – migration issues. of course, the situation in northern africa and in the mediterranean accelerates the need for us in europe to have our house in order. is that a reason to reinstall internal border control? no, of course not. is there a reason for european action? yes, there is. we have about 25 000 tunisians coming to europe. we have discussed this on many occasions here in the plenary. of course, every individual comes for a reason, namely that he – because it is very often a he – has no work in tunisia. i feel very strongly about every individual’s fate here, but not all of them can come to europe. it is much better – and that is why we are working with the tunisian authorities and italy in order to see how we can support italy to create jobs and growth – for these people to find a future in tunisia, because they are not refugees. however, there are refugees coming, and increasingly more so now. this week a lot of people have come from libya – third country nationals, even libyans – and that might increase. these people are clearly a reason for european action and solidarity. the commission has invited all member states to a conference on 12 may in order to discuss relocation and a prolongation of the malta project in order to assist malta with the thousands of people who have been going there. but we will also have the unhcr there, so we will try to ask member states to take increased responsibility for the refugees running away from the increasing violence in libya who are stranded in tunisia and at the border. turning to schengen, i agree with you – or most of you – who have said that schengen is a fantastic achievement. the fact that we can travel from finland to malta, from portugal to estonia, without ever showing a passport is a wonderful symbol of european integration. i want to protect this and further promote it. i am happy that i can count on your support in this. however, the system is not perfect. we knew long before all this started that there were some weaknesses in the systems. evaluation has not worked, because member states are evaluating each other and that is not a good thing. we need a european mechanism with the involvement of the european parliament. i presented this in november last year and i remember that i got quite a lot of support from this plenary to do this. we need to have tools to help the member states perform better in protecting eu external borders. we need to strengthen monitoring and we need more – not less – europe. so, in order to assess this situation and to decide on the necessary means, we really need a european approach. the events of last week have confirmed this. the shortcomings should never automatically lead to the reintroduction of border control. there has to be an assessment of the shortcomings in all other ways possible, such as providing financial and operational support. member states can also help each other. we are also working together with you on strengthening frontex. the point of departure is strengthening current legislation. i am convinced that the current rules can cater for most situations. where there are differences in interpretation, the commission should consult with member states in order to clarify the rules. this can be done by issuing guidelines or recommendations. there are particular circumstances where there might be a need to reintroduce border controls. that is already provided for today and it has been the case in a few situations – for example a major event such as a terrorist threat. there could be a major event where member states, under very clear circumstances, need to do this. but we need to strengthen the european dimension of this and to prevent member states from unilaterally taking action. that is what we are talking about. we live in turbulent times. many of the things that are happening are a reason for joy – in egypt and tunisia – but there are also a lot of concerns. we need to be calm in this situation. we need to try to handle it in the short term, but also in the long term. we need to strengthen our rules, not to undermine them. we need to strengthen the rules based on european law, on our values and on international commitments. we need a european leadership to stand up against simplistic solutions – and i have heard some of them here today – and populism. we need more europe, not less. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i would also like to thank you very much for this debate and the contributions i had from the honourable members of this house. first let me start with our clarification concerning the asylum package, as i received very concrete questions on that. as to the specific proposals on the table, the council welcomes the start of the trilogues between the parliament and the council concerning the qualification directive. as to the dublin regulation and the eurodac regulation, important progress has been made at technical level. two main issues, however, remain outstanding which are inextricably linked to the political discussions. the first is the suspension of transfers under the dublin regulation and the second is access for law enforcement under the eurodac regulation. many delegations in council are of the opinion that suspending dublin transfers to member states that are subject to practical pressures would create a poor precedent and would undermine the dublin regulation. a large number of delegations have also expressed a strong wish to give law enforcement agencies access to the eurodac database. given these views in council and considering our shared commitment to establishing a common european asylum system, a constructive debate is needed between all the institutions involved: the council, parliament and the commission. finally, the council awaits with interest the revised proposals of the commission concerning the procedural directives and the reception conditions directive, which are expected, if i am not mistaken, in early june. so, ms weber, since you suggested, with reference to the work of the council, that we are questioning and undermining codecision and are trying to isolate parliament, i hope that my clarification was enough for you. of course we are very pleased to share all the information with you and we are very committed to making progress on these dossiers, which are, i think, of vital importance for all of us. let me continue in my mother tongue for some horizontal general concluding remarks. ahogy már a bevezetőmben is hangsúlyoztam, a tanácsbeli nagy vita még előttünk áll. hat nappal ezelőtt látott napvilágot a bizottságnak az előterjesztése. mi rendkívüli bel- és igazságügyi tanácsi ülést hívtunk össze május 12-ére, ahol már egy orientációs vitát tudunk tartani. abban bízunk, hogy ez a munka és a munkacsoporti vita könnyebb helyzetbe hozza majd az állam- és kormányfőket, hogy a legfontosabb politikai döntéseket a júniusi európai tanácson meg tudják majd hozni. ebben a pillanatban tehát én a magyar elnökség álláspontját tudom önökkel megosztani. és itt hadd mondjam el önöknek újra, nem először ebben a házban, hogy a mi alapvető filozófiánk az az erős európa, egy olyan erős európa, amelyik az embert helyezi a gondolkodásának a középpontjába. nekünk ez az alapvetésünk, minden politikánkat, minden lépésünket ez határozza meg. ez alapján tudom önöknek elmondani, hogy ebben a politikailag rendkívül érzékeny ügyben mi lesz a mi kiindulópontunk. mi nem leszünk partnerek abban, hogy bárki megpróbálja lebontani a schengeni rendszert és a szabad mozgást. ebben a házban a hozzászólások túlnyomó többsége is amellett érvelt, hogy ezt a közös vívmányt meg kell tartanunk. hadd idézzem iacolino olasz képviselő urat, aki „patrimonia della civilta europea”, „közös európai örökségünk”-nek nevezte, vagy gál kinga asszonyt, aki azt mondta, hogy a legkézzelfoghatóbb eredménye az uniós egységnek a szabad mozgás. a magyar elnökség minden ezzel szembemenő törekvésnek ellen fog állni. de ez nem jelenti azt, és hadd csatlakozzak malmström biztos asszonyhoz, hogy a rendszert ne kellene tökéletesíteni. hónapok óta, évek óta tudjuk, hogy a 2011. év kihívásaihoz kell igazítani ezt a rendszert, és igenis ezt meg lehet tenni. senki nem akarja, hogy szétessen az, amit nagyon sok év munkájával közösen hoztunk létre. tehát, ami a belső határok visszaállítását illeti, azt gondoljuk, hogy csak rendkívüli helyzetben, óriási kihívás esetén, meghatározott időre és közösségi döntéshozatallal lehet megtenni. ezt elmondtam a bevezetőmben, malmström asszony elmondta, barroso biztos úr elmondta. ismételten elmondom, hogy ez a mi kiindulópontunk. mi az, amiben még tudunk, és mi az, amiben nem tudunk partnerek lenni? meg szeretnénk különböztetni azokat a menekülteket, akik valódi menekültek a nemzetközi jog alapján. őket segítenünk kell, azért, hogy hűek lehessünk önmagunkhoz, a közös értékeinkhez. az illegális migrációval szemben pedig fel kell lépnünk. az, hogy a közös határok, a külső határok védelme az egy közös ügy, ezt már említenem sem kell. meg kell erősíteni a frontex-et, rendelkezésére kell bocsátani azokat az eszközöket, amelyek ehhez szükségesek. ezen dolgozunk önökkel együttműködésben, remélve, hogy mielőbb döntésre tudunk jutni. schengen ügye nem csak azt jelenti, ami most a bizottsági közleményben szerepel, hanem napirenden van a schengeni övezet bővítése. a magyar elnökség egyértelműen elválasztja ezt a két ügyet. senki ne akarja azt a két országot, amelyik rengeteg munkát, energiát és pénzt ölt abba, hogy méltóképpen felkészüljön és megfeleljen azoknak a nagy elvárásoknak, amelyeket a schengeni zónához való csatlakozás jelent, hogy ezt valaki negligálhassa, és tönkretegye, azzal, hogy most éppen nem megfelelő ehhez a hangulat. a magyar elnökség alatt februárban már elismertük, hogy románia készen volt a technikai standardok szempontjából, bulgáriának volt még házi feladata. örömmel jelenthetem, hogy május elején a sch-eval értékelő csoport megállapította, hogy ezt a munkát bulgária elvégezte. én abban bízom, hogy még a magyar elnökség alatt ki tudjuk azt a tanácsban mondani, hogy a technikai felkészülés készen van. a két ország a schengeni technikai kritériumokat teljesíti. a politikai döntést, amikor arra a tagállamok készek, meg kell majd hozni. erről mi az összes szereplővel folyamatosan egyeztettünk és egyeztetünk most is, és igyekszünk olyan megoldást találni, amely minden érintett fél, románia és bulgária, illetve a schengeni rendszer miatt aggódó tagállamoknak mindegyiknek elfogadható. és végezetül egyben megjegyzés: azt hiszem weber képviselő úr volt a néppárt részéről, aki azt mondta, hogy nagyon kell arra vigyáznunk, hogy a bevándorlók, hogy az európai problémák, a munkaerő-utánpótlás kapcsán milyen politikát folytatunk. ezzel mélyen egyetértek. nem felejthetjük el, hogy vannak saját munkanélkülieink, de azt sem felejthetjük el, hogy egyébként egy elöregedő társadalom vagyunk európában, és munkaerő-utánpótlási gondjaink is lesznek. a magyar elnökség ezért tűzte zászlajára azt, hogy foglalkozzunk demográfiai kérdésekkel, hogy segítsük egymást abban, hogy lássuk, melyek azok a tagállamok, amelyek nagyon sikeresek a demográfiai politika terén, a családpolitika terén. szeretnénk, ha a családok helyzete az európai unióban könnyebbé válna. szeretnénk, ha több gyermek születhetne európában, mert minden tagállam a maga eszközével ezt elősegíti, és ez a megoldás az elöregedő társadalom problémájára, és ezt jó lenne, ha nem migrációval kellene megoldanunk.
, in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of persons within the eu is, along with the euro, one of the absolute pillars of the european project. there is no reason to question this today. the response to the thousands of refugees literally pouring into southern europe cannot be that we close our internal borders, even temporarily. the only response is to work towards a common european asylum and immigration policy in the short term. we cannot and will not accept that the arrival of 30,000 refugees on the shores of italy or greece will call into question the pillars of the eu. of course italy is right to call for european solidarity in tackling this problem. therein lies the solution. but blocking the internal borders, even temporarily, is a panic reaction unworthy of the eu leaders.
, in writing. italy's decision to issue temporary residence permits to thousands of tunisian immigrants arriving on its soil, followed by france's request to temporarily re-establish border controls, has called into question one of the most tangible elements of european integration: the schengen area. the commission's proposals in its communication of 4 may, which include an extension of the 'exceptional' circumstances which would allow the reintroduction of internal border controls, leave me somewhat perplexed. we are not going to put one of europe's finest achievements in jeopardy because of the will of two presidents! immigration is a challenge that requires a european response, and i therefore call for a common migration policy. it's time to take this case to the next level. i hope that at the european summit in june, when this issue will be discussed, populist sentiments will not pollute the atmosphere.
the commission's proposals to tighten up asylum and migration policy contained a certain stupidity and some good motives. the reference to internal border controls is more a matter of political opportunism than of leadership and insight. but this concession to france and italy is fortunately only symbolic. i am also glad that the commission has shown in its proposals that it too recognises that sound solutions for a more efficient asylum and migration policy should not be sought under the church tower, but that some things require more european cooperation. there are huge differences between member states in the processing of asylum applications and the outcome of these procedures. a single european asylum system is therefore needed, so that asylum seekers can see that europe can help where needed, but does not give a free pass to adventurers. we must link this to developing meaningful partnerships between europe and its neighbours to support growth and development. i hope that the commission will no longer allow itself to be used as a toy in the internal profiling of some politicians. what we need are solid european solutions to a european problem. these proposals are a good basis, but i think it is better to have more.
mr president, i too would like to welcome this text, which i shall be happy to vote on tomorrow. i would simply point out that the recent scandals we have seen are attempts at corruption, and nothing else. this is serious, but it's also recent. the work we have started is much earlier than these recent events, these serious events, which are the subject of other work. they're fortunately isolated. on the other hand, we see that the means employed by a number of groups are considerable, that the engineering is flawless in trying to influence the decision as much as possible, and this register is therefore a step in the right direction. i have helped to draw it up and i am also pleased with the work that has been done. but there are other steps that must be taken. it must become a dynamic instrument, one that we evaluate every year. it's anything but frozen. i believe that the evolution of technology and the means of lobbyists will force us to constantly review it so that it is effective and that, by means of directives, we can identify who is lobbying, for how much money, and in what way, and i am also in favour of the ecological footprint, i mean the legislative footprint that could be represented by the number of lobbyists, the people met, and that we can know exactly who said what, who influenced whom. well, publishing is one thing, explaining how it works is another! citizens also need a way to consult these registers so that they can make good use of them in their apprehension of how we make decisions. that is why our group will vote for this text without reservation.
, in writing. i can only applaud the fact that the commission and parliament are joining forces to set up a common 'transparency register' for lobbyists, think tanks and other interest groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. moreover, there is nothing wrong with organisations defending their interests if this is done in an open and balanced way. the principle of the 'legislative footprint' whereby rapporteurs indicate with whom they have had contact in the context of the preparation of their reports is a good choice. i have already used this in my report on the safety of toys. clear agreements on the generalization of this principle will help to increase transparency. it is also a useful instrument for breaking the myth of lobbying among the general public, whose general interest we as members of the european parliament represent. finally, the fact that the council has finally declared its intention to join this register means that there will be a single register for all eu lobbyists, something that we have been working for a long time with the european parliament. i therefore support this approach.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, stress tests are the latest fashion. we have a deep economic and financial crisis, so we're going to put the banks through stress tests! we have a nuclear crisis, so let's run stress tests at the nuclear power plants! as if the very institution of stress testing was going to provide assurance to our fellow citizens or the financial market. because obviously everything depends on the assumptions that are made and as you said, commissioner, we cannot say that last year's financial stress tests were very credible in this respect. moreover, nuclear stress tests, as your colleague mr oettinger has acknowledged this afternoon, are also, at least for the time being, a laughingstock, since the possibility of an airplane crashing into a power station is not taken into account. and so, i would say that in this case, the plane that crashes into a power plant, it is obviously the risk of failure. commissioner, you say that we must take into account plausible hypotheses and therefore we do not take into account the hypothesis of a lack of a sovereign state in europe. so i would like to make the following point: either you consider this a hypothesis that you reject, and i would say that this is a denial of reality because if you look at the figures for the greek debt or the irish debt, it is obvious that sooner or later these states will have to restructure their debt, or you are playing for time, and i would say that this is also irresponsible, because the later we go, the more it will cost the community. i therefore appeal to your sense of reality and responsibility, commissioner. you are an ambitious european, you know that those whose resistance is tested every day are our fellow citizens, who know very well that until we take the bull by the horns, we cannot guarantee both their security and that of the financial market. to take the bull by the horns today means to restructure the financial industry in europe in a profound way. i know you have started, but that will also mean a european budgetary federation, but we shall return to that point tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on saturday i had a long meeting in cairo with the new egyptian prime minister, mr sharaf. the conclusion of this meeting, and my conclusion also after this meeting on my second trip to cairo in the last two months, is – as you have indicated – that we need to give massive help to these revolutions in north africa and especially to developments in egypt. we must stop making our little paternalistic adjustments that we have announced up to now. i shall give a short comparison. do you know how much money was transferred under the us marshall plan? for years in a row? 1% of gdp every year. usd 162 billion in actual money. and what are we talking about and promising egypt? one billion. not 162 billion, but one billion. not in 2011, not in 2012, but in 2013 when we have the possibility to do so. i think that is nothing at all. what i expect from you and from the commission – because it is apparently commission money we are talking about – is not big plans about changing the neighbourhood policy. we need to do that in the future, but what i expect is direct budget aid given to egypt as fast as possible, because by the end of the year they will have no money in their budget and that could be the beginning of a counter-revolution in egypt. direct budget aid or cancelling the country’s debts – that is the way forward immediately. an announcement today in that direction would certainly be helpful for egypt and for the egyptians. my second message is about syria. let us be honest, baroness ashton. syria is a huge disaster. what is happening there – and i have no other words to describe it – is nothing less than an arab tiananmen. an arab tiananmen. people massacred by tanks and by snipers every day. 800 people killed to date. 8000 people arrested to date. people tortured in the most brutal way in order to release passwords on facebook and the names of comrades working on facebook. soldiers who do not want to shoot at their own people are themselves shot by the secret services of the army and of bashar al-assad. from what is happening today in syria it is very clear that there is only one way to describe bashar al-assad, and that is as the most brutal dictator in the world at the moment. that is the clear analysis we can make today. (applause)so what can be done? i see 800 people killed to date, 8000 people imprisoned, some of them tortured every day, and we are freezing the assets of 13 people, but not assad. i say this is an unbalanced approach. it is in fact ridiculous, and it is not helping to press the assad regime to change its direction. it is not enough to say 13 people and one of assad’s brothers is there, and one of his nieces or nephews is on the list. no, there are hundreds of people you have to put on the list immediately, as fast as possible, to apply real pressure. i can understand your approach a little bit. you are saying that if i leave assad off the list maybe it will help him change his attitude later on. ok then, make that very clear here today in the debate. i want you to declare that you give assad a few days. if, in these few days, he does not stop what is happening at the moment then freeze all assets, not only of the 13 people but of the whole assad family. (applause) impose a travel ban not on 13 people when 800 are killed, but on the whole assad family and declare what is very important. they are waiting for that. yesterday we had a link directly with people in syria who are saying that you have to strengthen the sanctions, otherwise he will not stop. declare that the assad family will never be considered by the european union as the real representatives of the syrian people, and that they will be accountable for their crimes. do it right now. that is what we expect today from you. you can help to stop this arab tiananmen. it is not true that we play no role: we play an essential role and the people of syria are waiting for this clear message today. not tomorrow. today. (applause)
madam president, madam high representative, you have been the subject of much criticism in recent days, madam president, some of which is political calculation from below and my group has condemned it. others, however, cannot be swept away in a flash, and i would like to share my concern with you. it is true that we do not always see clearly the european union's foreign policy, but above all the aims it is trying to achieve and, in a word, its purpose. your statements are restrained but sometimes minimalist, and so we infer that there are probably disagreements within the union, which is a message, but a negative one. so you move, you meet, you telephone, you pay for yourself, no doubt, but the results of these efforts, unfortunately, are diluted in the media noise and, therefore, the union's foreign policy appears very pale in the face of the thunderous speeches of some european heads of state. but now, thanks to the arab revolutions, an extraordinary political space is opening up before you, and european diplomacy should be able to read very clearly in it, because beyond the particularities of each country, it is true that everything is interconnected. for example, the reconciliation between fatah and hamas would have been unthinkable without the arab revolution in egypt, and also without the bloody repression that has just taken place in syria. indeed, it is because bashar al-assad crossed the red line that hamas suddenly does not feel very comfortable in damascus, is considering qatar, is considering cairo, and that it wanted to negotiate in extremis when it had been negotiating for ages. and we must seize these opportunities! so what is our policy today with regard to syria and the middle east? i told you, it's not enough. and i share the anger of some of my colleagues with regard to the syrian exception and, this time, with regard to bashar al-assad, who escapes sanctions. and we don't have enough explanation for that, ma'am. another point. syria could well - except for a last-minute bid, which would have been pushed by the us, kuwait or nepal - head the un human rights council as of may 20. do you see syria presiding over the un human rights council? mrs. ashton, the sanctions are not enough. have you campaigned for syria not to chair the un human rights council? are you pushing for an international investigation into the massacres? even - and i am mr cohn-bendit - if you cannot persuade the heads of state, say so, don't let us guess! it is this ambiguity that weighs on us. as far as the middle east goes, i'm not exactly in your league. you timidly hailed the fatah-hamas reconciliation. but will you talk to hamas? are we going to repeat the mistakes of 2007? the situation is very complex, as we all know. but i think we should take this chance. hamas supported the arab peace initiative. both sides, in forming this government, have made incredible concessions. we have accepted, in the agreement governing the formation of this future government, which will take place perhaps in a month's time, the idea of elections, the palestinian authority, the fact that abbas could negotiate, the idea of the 1967 borders, which are indispensable and which are an implicit recognition of israel. so don't tell me you're the same as you were two years ago. it's unthinkable for us. madam high representative, this is an emergency. political prudence cannot replace boldness, it must go with it. parliament will always be behind you if you have the courage to give a strong vision.
madam president, words are tools, words are instruments and words can be weapons in foreign policy. therefore they should be used sparingly and prudently, but there are occasions when they must be used decisively. i would like to say to the high representative that i sorely missed her voice during the very first few days of the horrors perpetrated by the syrian authorities. i believe that the courageous citizens who were – and still are – demonstrating in syria at great personal risk have missed your voice even more. there are rare occasions when one needs to speak up immediately. this was one of them. let me now turn to the middle east. i believe that withholding of taxes collected in palestine by the israeli government is an ill-inspired action, and what is more it is inconsistent first to demand that the authorities of the west bank and gaza should find an arrangement – an agreement – and when the agreement comes to take this decision then. moreover, this decision is extremely cynical as it is very likely that the european union will have to make up for the financial shortfall in any case. so i support all my colleagues who have called – and i call myself – for a new impetus to a peaceful solution of the israel-palestinian conflict, which of course must be based on the two-state solution.
in writing. in order to prevent consumers from inadvertently buying products made from materials of animal origin (fur and leather), i supported this report, which provides for mandatory labelling of 'non-textile parts of animal origin'. this will also help to prevent allergy problems which some consumers suffer from.
in writing. i welcome the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the very complex issue of textile product names and labelling. consumers should be properly informed about the presence of non-textile products of animal origin, such as fur, in order to make an informed choice. i also stress the need for the commission to look with the greatest interest at the question of social labelling. i believe that consumers should be informed of the social conditions under which a textile product was manufactured in order to make them responsible for the working conditions of the workers in the textile industry. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. the agreement adopted today after two years of intensive negotiations will simplify the placing on the market of new fibres and improve consumer protection in the internal market through clear, visible and legible textile labels. the european parliament was also able to express its clear support for this regulation. textile products containing non-textile parts of animal origin, such as fur or leather, will in future be clearly labelled. the explicit requests of the european parliament to investigate further the use of non-linguistic symbols on clothing labels and the possible links between allergic reactions and chemical substances used in textiles were also accepted. the european parliament's request and the european commission's commitment to submit legislative proposals on the traceability of textiles in 2013, if necessary, after a thorough study, is also an important step forward. for these reasons i voted in favour of the agreement which parliament could reach with the council at second reading.
in writing. − the modern information society and the scarcity of frequency bands make strategic planning and harmonisation of the use of the spectrum all the more necessary. this applies, of course, to mobile telephony, wireless broadband, radio, television, but also to radio connections at concerts or theatres. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres and the establishment of a european network of information centres. the latter applies, for example, to places of worship with limited financial resources, which cannot always afford to be refurbished. the goals of achieving full broadband coverage in the eu by 2013 and universal high-speed internet access by 2020 are commendable but may not be realistic in all countries. the proposal also lacks the indication or consideration of the specific challenges in border areas where increased coordination is needed.
in writing. despite being the largest economy in the world, the european union is lagging behind other international players in terms of digital strategy and digital economy. europe must take initiatives on broadband and internet use to become a leader in broadband development. wireless broadband is essential to ensure that all citizens have access to new and innovative services. we need to bridge the digital divide and ensure that all european citizens have a broadband connection by 2020. in addition to smartphones, tablet pcs and electronic keyboards, among others, mobile broadband is playing an increasingly important role in service provision and innovation in other areas, such as healthcare, education, culture and public administration. the accessibility of new consumer technologies and equipment must also be guaranteed. the radio spectrum policy programme should set realistic but ambitious targets that will enable european companies to compete in the global market on a more solid basis.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes that the list of interest groups in the various european institutions be common. to date, more than 1 700 organisations are accredited as interest groups in the european parliament and 3 900 in the commission. in order to make a valid stand on a technical subject, it is normal to ask the people who are most familiar with such matters. it has always been so and it will be so in the future. lobbying is a useful and essential element of legislative work, provided that transparency is maintained. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide transparency register. citizens will find all the information on the contacts of the eu institutions. this 'one-stop shop' system will also facilitate the registration of special interest representatives, both commercial and non-commercial organisations. parliament also called for the inclusion of the european parliament's opinion on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000 in the annual report. i regret that registration is not compulsory, but as the saying goes, "chi va piano va sano".
in writing. i did not vote in favour of the casini report on the establishment of a common transparency register. i think that the establishment of such a register is an infringement of the freedom which every politician should enjoy. each member of parliament takes political responsibility for his decisions and positions. it's sanctioned by the voters.
in writing. it is imperative to fight for transparency within the european institutions and as such i welcome the agreement with the commission to finally establish a common register of interest groups within the european institutions. i would like to make one comment, however, to regret the council's reluctance to join this common register. is it necessary to go backwards to defend opacity against openness today? the representatives of the member states also have a duty of information and transparency towards european citizens. i also have a wish for the future: it seems to me essential to gradually move towards an american-style system, based on 65 years of experience, and based on the publication of essential documents by lobbying companies (for example, for any contract over $10,000). finally, a word on the legislative footprint, a false good idea. not because it would undermine the principle of parliamentary independence, but because it would lead to endless discussions in parliamentary committees about why one lobbyist is chosen and how often one meets with another. in conclusion, the important thing is to achieve an efficient and flawless system. we're still a long way from that.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes that the list of interest groups in the various european institutions be common. to date, more than 1 700 organisations are accredited as interest groups in the european parliament and 3 900 in the commission. in order to make a valid stand on a technical subject, it is normal to ask the people who are most familiar with such matters. it has always been so and it will be so in the future. lobbying is a useful and essential element of legislative work, provided that transparency is maintained. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide transparency register. citizens will find all the information on the contacts of the eu institutions. this 'one-stop shop' system will also facilitate the registration of special interest representatives, both commercial and non-commercial organisations. parliament also called for the inclusion of the european parliament's opinion on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000 in the annual report. i regret that registration is not compulsory, but as the saying goes, "chi va piano va sano".
in writing. i voted with my socialist colleagues against the resolution on the state of negotiations in the framework of the eu-india free trade agreement because it does not take sufficient account of the social standards to be respected in all trade agreements. according to the indian ngo save the children, 60 million children are estimated to work in fields, restaurants or factories in india. i regret that the conservative majority in the european parliament refused to recognise this reality by rejecting an amendment which highlighted the european parliament's concern about the use of child labour, often exploited in dangerous and unhealthy conditions. we also asked the commission to address this problem in the negotiations on the free trade agreement and invited the indian government to do its utmost to eradicate the root causes of this phenomenon and put an end to it. in rejecting this position, the right-wing majority in the european parliament has put indian and european commercial interests ahead of the protection of children's rights, and i cannot endorse this intolerable position.
in writing. forests cover more than 42% of the union's territory. the wood sector accounts for more than two million jobs, mainly in smes, and a turnover of 300 billion euros. the forestry industry employs 350,000 people. the volume cut/increase ratio is stable in the union at around 60%, but projections suggest that this ratio will increase beyond 100% in several countries, causing a decrease in standing timber reserves after 2020! i am convinced that sustainable forest management is essential to maintaining the capacity of the union's forests to fulfil economic, ecological and social functions. that is why i have called on the commission to come forward with proposals to supplement regulation no 995/2010 on wood to ensure that all wood and wood products placed on the european market come from sustainably managed forests. the commission and the member states must make it compulsory to implement sustainable forest management in the union.
in writing. climate change and forests are inextricably linked. in the fight against climate change, the protection of forests is essential. forests could be better used in this fight, not only by preventing logging but also by afforestation and reforestation programmes. as a result of climate change, each forest type and forest sector is exposed to specific and unpredictable threats such as storms, droughts or fires. it is therefore crucial that the european union reinforces its strategy to combat these phenomena. sustainable forest management must seek to reconcile production and forest protection aspects. sustainable forest management is essential to maintain the capacity of forests to fulfil economic, ecological and social functions. greater attention to the maintenance, balance and enhancement of forest services is essential. the preservation of biodiversity must be one of the priorities of our political action.
in writing. it goes without saying that the protection of forests is a key environmental issue. well-managed forests are the main carbon sink and play a key role in the fight against climate change. on the other hand, undergoing intensive deforestation, they account for 25% of all emissions of co2, a greenhouse gas caused by human activities. the european union, including sweden and finland, which alone account for 33% of europe's forests, as well as the countries bordering the mediterranean, have an interest in strengthening their strategy to combat the phenomena that damage forests, such as air pollution and fires. in this context, i welcome the adoption, in the context of the vote on the green paper on 'preparing forests for climate change', of paragraph 38 of the arsenis report, which 'urges the commission to submit a legislative proposal for the protection of forests against fire' and in particular envisages 'a ban on all construction for 30 years on land that has been affected by a forest fire'. this is a good way to counteract the widespread practice of arson for the purpose of real estate promotion.
in writing. as you know, i am a strong supporter of turkey's eu membership. i am convinced that europe has at least as much interest in accession as turkey. turkey is fortunate to be on the border of two worlds. it has a dual vision, both of western europe and of asia. as jacques chirac said: 'the european union and turkey have a common destiny.' the accession of turkey is proof that dialogue between east and west is possible, constructive, peace-making, innovative and inventive. does europe not have between 15 and 20 million muslims? turkey is a founding member of the council of europe and the osce, a member of nato and the western european union (weu). it has just been elected as a non-permanent member of the security council. finally, its presence at the g20 shows the importance and the geostrategic role it can play in the concert of nations. we must restore trust between our governments and realise the hopes of our people and young people. we must use the years ahead to achieve this integration.
in writing. today we are witnessing a dramatic shift in the geopolitical landscape of the southern mediterranean region. to ignore this great and beautiful aspiration would be to risk these revolutions for the better being exploited by some for the worse. the people of these countries must be shown that the eu supports their desire for change. from the beginning of the libyan conflict, i suggested that the international community should support the overthrow of the gaddafi regime by all means. the duty to protect human beings wherever they live and whoever they are is a universal right and a sacred duty. what does self-determination mean when it results from dictatorial practices or when it leads to justifying the ineffable? self-determination and, moreover, an absolute majority do not allow any regime to deny universal values. the delay, hesitations and semantic arguments about the level of intervention allowed this regime to weaken this citizen revolt. it is urgent that the eu establish a credible approach to the southern dimension of our neighbourhood policy.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which calls for a strengthening of the role of the european union in the system of multilateral organisations (the united nations system, international financial institutions, nato, the osce, the wto, etc.). at the beginning of may 2011, the un general assembly granted the eu "super-observer" status, allowing it to speak and exercise a right of reply in the assembly on the same basis as other member states of the organisation. this is a first step which should be continued and strengthened. another important element is the reform of the security council. its legitimacy must be strengthened by reforming regional representation. this report calls on the high representative/vice-president of the commission, and i am very much in favour of this, to seek common positions of the union on the issues to be decided in the security council, so that these positions are implemented by the practice of a common vote and that the differences of the past are not repeated.
in writing. faced with the great challenges of our time, the nations are powerless to act alone. only multilateral action can give states a handle on the challenges facing the world. the economic, financial, climate and food crises and conflicts have made us aware of the urgency of establishing a global governance or, as jacques attali says, a world state. europe has a role to play in this new political space of global dimension, because it is a global and soft power that is based on the norm, the rule and the example. with the treaty of lisbon, it has the necessary basis to become a force not only on the economic level but also on the political level.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the president of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee novel foodsconciliation procedure concerning the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1331/2008 and the repeal of regulation (ec) no 258/97 and commission regulation (ec) no 1852/2001 concerning novel foods (2008/0002 ((cod)).
i thank you, mr pittella, also for the enthusiasm you have shown in your statement. i give the floor to mrs győry, on behalf of the council, to reply. i understand, however, that you have a voice problem and that your representative will speak for you. i give you the floor on behalf of the council.
before i give you the floor, commissioner, i would first like to welcome here, on behalf of all of us, a delegation from the consultative assembly of the republic of indonesia, who have taken their seats in the official gallery above us. i warmly welcome them and in particular the delegation led by his excellency mr lukman hakim saifuddin, who is the vice-chairman of the consultative assembly. indonesia is a very important partner of the european union in south-east asia. it is the first asean country with which the european union signed a partnership and cooperation agreement in november 2009, and it is the country that chairs asean this year. our relations with the other parliaments are excellent. a delegation from parliament visited indonesia only a few months ago and it is therefore my great pleasure to welcome our friends and colleagues from the indonesian parliament today. we hope your visit will be fruitful and profitable. (applause) i would like to thank
we now return to the debate on the statement by the chairman of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee on novel foods.
i think that mr leinen has said it very rightly. this is a matter which is at the crossroads between the interests of the meat and agricultural industries on the one hand and the interests of the consumer on the other. i think that's the core of the problem. i think that we as a parliament have made a significant effort together with the rapporteur, whom i congratulate on all her efforts. we've worked hard, but we've also been flexible. at one point, we were willing to make some concessions, but it was never enough. i do object to the council's lack of flexibility in this respect. but i am not really happy with the commission's position, not exactly with your position, mr dalli, but at a certain point one of your colleagues, the belgian commissioner de gucht, went behind the back of the conciliation committee to speak in the committee on international trade of our parliament, and he gave a lot of false reasons there, reasons connected with the wto, which we all know - as mrs lepage rightly said - that those reasons do not apply here. i think the rapporteur will come back to that later. what's the next step? we did waste some time. i think we should indeed now ask the commission to come forward very quickly with a new proposal on novel foods; we know that could be in there, because there was a quasi-agreement; the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. one word of caution, commissioner, i want this done on time. i do not want this to be put off until the end of the term and then rushed to the end of the term or postponed to the next term. it is this parliament which has negotiated this dossier in first and second reading and in conciliation. it is for parliament to complete this dossier.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. the position of commissioner de gucht was discussed several times in the debate. mrs lepage asked commissioner dalli whether he was aware of the council's legal opinion. i have heard mr dalli answer our questions a great many times, but not that question. it's a crucial question, though. is there perhaps a disagreement within the commission, when mr dalli is there as consumer affairs commissioner and mr de gucht is going around making false arguments which are refuted by a council document? i would like to hear the commissioner's views on this.
the debate is closed.
mr president, mr bokros, i shall continue, since you have introduced the point very well. i think, mr rehn, that we should listen to what is being said here. i think that when you put the figures side by side, you can only conclude that a restructuring of the greek debt, and presumably the irish debt, is inevitable. and i think everybody realizes that. it seems so obvious sometimes that one may wonder how it is possible that the european central bank, the commission, the council do not see it. or do you refuse to see him? in other words, the first option is that you decide, for ideological reasons, that there is no question of having a flaw. and now i would say that's denial of reality. on the contrary, you might feel that it is better to wait. and here i would really like to appeal to you because the longer the time goes by, the more painful the restructuring will be, the more expensive it will be. and above all, the more it will cost the taxpayers because the more time passes, the more the greek public debt is borne by public or para-public entities - i am thinking of the european central bank, i am thinking of the efsf - and, increasingly, it is the taxpayers who will be put to the test. you know, mr. rehn, there's been a lot of talk about stress tests, stress tests, these last few days. we're talking about nuclear power plants, we're talking about the banks. but those whose resilience is tested the most every day are our fellow citizens, and in particular the most disadvantaged among them, who may bear a more than proportionate share of the burden of responding to this crisis. so, it is certain that we cannot say that the crisis is just the banks, just the companies or just the politicians, as some like to simplify. i believe that this is a collective responsibility, and that it would be healthy for everyone to contribute their fair share to the response. and i would like to end by emphasizing that, while i may often disagree with you, we must honor the work you've been doing these past few days. i'm sure your nights aren't very long, and i promise you that the day you find a life a little more decent, i'll be happy to invite you to dinner.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, research and innovation policy is one of the three main pillars of the union's policies, and i would say that, more than ever, it will be an absolutely key and strategic tool for our future. why would you do that? because we have the chance, or the challenge, to live at the dawn of a civilization change. think about it, we must ensure the conditions for a dignified existence for all, not only here and now, but also elsewhere and for future generations, and this in itself is a colossal challenge. but on top of that, for the first time in human history, we have to ensure that it's within the physical limits of the planet. that, of course, changes the situation quite a bit. we believe that europe can be a world leader in this profound transformation of our infrastructures, our organisations but also, and more importantly, of the way we produce, consume and live. we, as leaders, are the best way of ensuring the competitiveness of the european union. this allows me to say that competitiveness is not an objective in itself. what we are seeking is to put ourselves in a position to respond to challenges which, let us not forget, threaten the very existence of humanity on this planet. but we say that competitiveness will be a given if we are indeed among the best. a lot of things have been said that we agree with. i would just like to emphasize two points again. first, we need to maximise the impact of every euro spent. this requires better alignment between the different policies of the union, better alignment between what is done at union level and what is done at member state level. this also means moving from a logic, it seems to us, where the general rule is subsidies and the exception, lending or risk sharing, to a logic where we try to catalyse private investment using public funds. so it's not always by giving money to a lost fund that we do this best. finally, we must dare to put an end to a number of great white elephants, projects such as the iter project which, in fact, consume a substantial part, think about it, since we are talking about 7 billion out of 60 of the european research money. we have to stop this.
draft report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. - president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we all know that we are in very turbulent economic and political times in europe. solidarity is under pressure and nationalist and also populist tendencies are on the rise, as one of our british colleagues has just proved, with blood in his veins. colleagues, trends are a threat to the future of the eu and to the prosperity and well-being of europeans. we have been elected to answer that. the answer, commissioner, can and must come to a large extent from the cultural sector. we must definitely invest much more in creating a common european public space. education, as has already been said, can make a very important, even crucial, contribution to this. we are convinced that we can make much better use of the cooperation between the cultural entrepreneurs on the one hand and the schools, both higher education, universities, colleges and secondary education on the other, that it offers many more opportunities than we are actually taking advantage of today. commissioner, you just said it yourself. this is a sector with great potential for our economy and for employment, and we must therefore take concrete incentive measures, such as a lower tax on online projects, because the current system, especially the vat rate, is out of date and absolutely unfair. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the report makes very concrete proposals in this respect and we hope, commissioner, that the commission, but also the competent national and regional authorities, will take up this glove and implement these proposals.
in writing. - this report reiterates the importance of promoting the mobility of young people in all areas for the construction of europe. the alignment of study programmes and the corresponding mutual recognition must be achieved in all areas of training, especially in craft sectors where there is a great need to catch up. the training authorities in the countries concerned should also intensify their examination of the need to remove additional barriers which have been created at the administrative level or at the level of certain professional chambers. the mobility of trainees also leads to better recognition of many professions and prevents social dumping, because equal training also leads to progressively equal pay.
in writing. the youth on the move initiative focuses on learning mobility, but it is also essential to ensure that the education young people receive is responsive to the needs of the labour market and therefore provides them with the skills and knowledge they will need. unfortunately, young people are one of the social groups most affected by the global financial crisis and must be supported to enter the labour market and be able to secure their own future and support the economy. education and training are key factors for greater prosperity and social cohesion in europe. student mobility is a key element of the europe 2020 strategy. it offers many opportunities for the intellectual emancipation of students, for the fight against school drop-out, unemployment and poverty, and for the development of international cooperation in higher education as well as in vocational education and training. student mobility is also one of the major challenges of european integration and construction. however, this mobility must be achieved with financial means that are commensurate with the ambitions and with the removal of practical obstacles to such mobility.
in writing. early learning is the foundation for successful lifelong learning for children. it sharpens the child's intelligence, stimulates his natural curiosity and develops his motor skills, enhances manual work, and promotes mental health. it socializes the child, develops his mother tongue and accustoms him to the sounds of a foreign language. he's taking her to the basics of reading and arithmetic. the education and care of young children, however, takes different forms in different countries of the european union, depending on the interpretation of childhood. they are generally less intentional and less invested in than other levels of education. the services of education and care must be available to all parents and children, regardless of their background or financial situation. parents, for their part, must be full partners. since preschool is the most important period for the emotional and social development of the child, the staff working with these children must have the necessary qualifications. in all cases the primary objective must be to consider the child's best needs and interests.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution on the review of the small business act by a large majority in the european parliament. smes, which account for 99% of european enterprises, provide two thirds of private sector jobs and generate more than half of the total value added created by enterprises active in the eu. smes play a key role in innovation, research and development. with the adoption of the small business act in 2008, the european commission took a first decisive step for these smes by introducing the 'think small first' principle in all areas of legislation. many proposals were completed within three years, such as the directive on late payment. but we still have a lot of work to do to make life easier for smes in view of the administrative burdens they face and the often difficult access to finance. the resolution calls on the european commission to continue to take better account of the key drivers of economic growth and prosperity, namely smes.
in writing. innovation is to european policy what education is to young people, a passport to the future, an insurance policy against almost all risks for a society that advances and preserves social cohesion. this formula makes perfect sense in the post-crisis world in which we are witnessing a faster economic recovery on the american side and the still insolent growth of the emerging powers of the so-called bric group. the european union is lagging behind and the labour market is struggling to recover. the ultimate paradox is that switzerland, which is not an eu member, remains the european innovation champion. that is why the call made this afternoon by the european parliament (merkies report) for a real 'change of mentality' is important. because innovation is not just about technological inventions, the number of patents filed per capita. it is above all about investing in the fabric of smes, the main wealth creator in europe, through venture capital, guarantee facilities, loan support and simplification of the legislative environment. in this case, will the sweet dream of 3% of gdp in r & d become a reality?
in writing. when voting on a parliamentary report on the innovation union, i wanted to support the amendment rejecting the idea of framing innovation by directing the resources of the structural funds and certain parts of the common agricultural policy funds towards innovative activities. it is obvious that innovation must be supported, but this must not be at the expense of other policies which are fundamental to the future of the european union, such as the common agricultural policy. the cap must be reformed by promoting certain fundamental objectives, but the european union's integrated policy alone cannot be stripped of its powers.
in writing. domestic work, often precarious, undervalued and unreported, accounts for 5-9% of total employment in industrialized countries. a majority of these domestic workers are women and immigrants, who are more likely to be exploited and underpaid. the adoption of an ilo convention on domestic workers will be an essential element in ensuring respect for human and social rights by recognising domestic work as having the same status as any other work and providing a legal framework for domestic workers. the parliamentary resolution adopted today sends a strong signal to all member states to sign this convention which i hope will strengthen the social inclusion of workers by giving them access to the standard social rights to which all workers are entitled.
in writing. while globalisation has undoubtedly promoted the multiplication of trade, we must combat the danger of the uniformity of our cultures. culture is a vector of openness and a driving force for democracies, acting against any nationalist withdrawal, racist temptation and exclusion that are fuelled by economic and financial crises, climate and food. cultures are meant to enrich each other in a spirit of mutual respect. they are an inexhaustible renewable energy. cultural creation often draws or expresses a vision, a commitment, a relevant or impertinent bias. it is the exercise of a right, including the right to denounce. we need artists, their critical view of the world, their role as educators of our societies. they anticipate the future, they project the future of society because they see faster and further than politicians. we must work to create a plural world that preserves its creative capacity and generates novelty and difference. we need to rethink the system of global governance. a new political space of global dimension, taking into account the political dimension of cultural diversity, must be created.
in writing. sarajevo was a beautiful city where three peoples, three cultures and three religions coexisted. the siege and the ethno-religious war that lasted 4 years (1992-1996) deeply disrupted this capital, which became religiously "islamized" and linguistically "bosniakised". our challenge now is to rebuild bridges between communities. culture can help. it helped them to endure the four years of war. culture is a vector of openness and a driving force for democracies, acting against any nationalist retreat, racist temptation and exclusion. it can help them to rediscover european multiculturalism today. this mosaic city has been and can be the living metaphor of europe. we must work to create a plural world that preserves its creative capacity and generates novelty and difference.
author. - mr president, from the very beginning you all understood that the debate was quite lively and that there were two tendencies. i would say that my group is not on either side, but simply on the side of justice and reconciliation. i don't think that in countries that have experienced terrible wars, like sri lanka - but there are many others - there is reconciliation without justice. what is the united nations report that mr van orden describes? he simply refers to facts and calls for an international justice mechanism, which we know is going to be agreed by the government. that's the least of it. how do you want to reconcile a people? it is on both sides, mr van orden, not just on the tamil side, it is on both sides that there have been crimes, it is on both sides that there are responsibilities, it is on both sides that justice must be done. the report also says - and i apologize - that the reconciliation committee just mentioned has not provided evidence of a high standard. i am afraid that a national judicial body will not finally clarify the facts. that is why, quite simply and on behalf of all those who have suffered on both sides, i say that our assembly today can only support this report for more light and more justice. that's the only message i'd like to get across today. i shall not have used up my speaking time, but that is the essential message for this assembly.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make four comments. first of all, i would like to return to ms schmidt's speech, to talk about the process. while the stakes are as high as the imf managing director's position - compared to the energy sometimes put into hiring third-level managers in companies - i find the way this is done to be a lack of professionalism. instead of a relatively open, transparent, criteria-based procedure, what do we have? we have a series of caucuses where heads of state and government come together and say, "i'd promote this or that". this does not strengthen the credibility of the european union. but after the dominique strauss-kahn episode, europe cannot afford to give half a thought to the candidate it is presenting. i think it's a lost opportunity. i do not hold you responsible for this - you are not in a position to do this - but we would certainly benefit from a much more orderly, much more common and much more professional approach. secondly, i would like to reply to mrs swinburne. it is time to give an open answer to those who, like you, mrs swinburne, like you, mr farage, continue to spread the illusion that we europeans can influence world affairs, including our own, by speaking with a multitude of voices. mrs swinburne, it's nice to talk about voices speaking in harmony, but you know very well that's not how it works. and that at some point, if there is not something that corresponds to a democratic federation, the voices are not in harmony, because each one responds to its own electorate. that's how it happens. and if you imagine, mr farage or mrs swinburne, that you are going to defend the so-called sovereignty of the united kingdom - and that applies to all the states of the union, to small states like mine, to large states like germany, france or britain - if you think that, alone, you will still succeed in making a difference on the planet, i think you are sticking your finger in your eye. my third point concerns the attitude of the imf compared with that of the european union in the crisis. and now, commissioner, i'm coming after you. it is our duty, however, in all the discussions at troika level in the various member states that we are trying to help, to conclude that the imf is the most reasonable institution today - and i am almost tired of saying this after all that we greens said about the imf in the 1980s and 1990s - while the commission and the central bank are the toughest under the conditions. this is a situation which we as europeans cannot afford. i can't understand that you want to be more catholic than the pope i don't know if i can say that to a finn, but i say it anyway!
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the seventh framework programme for research is the largest research programme in the world: €54 billion and 600 million for the period 2007-2013 and over 9 000 projects funded so far. the question is whether its efficiency is worth the capital investment. in the light of the foregoing, i think that asking the question is partly answering it. europe is having a little difficulty doing as well as it could, and the main reasons for this are known, and they have been mentioned: the fragmentation of the union in research and development, which follows, roughly, a north-south division; the european backwardness, also, in terms of research and development expenditure by enterprises; the rapporteur then referred to the difficulty for researchers and smes to access the various programmes. optimism is not excluded, and fortunately, because the council, parliament and the commission are here in perfect sync and aware of this need to reorient european research and innovation towards the great societal and economic challenges. i am thinking, of course - and this has been said - not only of climate change, but also of energy security, post-fukushima, which will have to be managed, but also of food security, which is being crushed by e. coli. it is also essential not to disperse. i naturally agree with mr audy in his desire to set clear and limited priorities for research in europe. this is the idea expressed in paragraph 9 of the report. europe must give itself the capacity to serve large, specific objectives. the rapporteur also mentioned the 28 billion still to be spent over the remaining three years. i shall conclude by mentioning a specific area, since we are talking about priorities and specific areas: nanotechnology, which i believe should be invested in more, as there are many sectors where this is possible: medicine, agri-foodstuffs, electronics, new materials, new energy. it is up to our experts to mark this revolution, but the european union must take - i conclude in two words - this leadership and win this conquest of the infinitely small.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in seal products. you have already referred to it. i was rapporteur for the committee on the environment a few years ago, but i remain a strong advocate of banning trade in seal products. i therefore urge my colleagues and the commission to keep this point in mind. about two years ago we voted overwhelmingly in this parliament to ban trade, despite the immense pressure from canada on this parliament and the other institutions to weaken that legislation. the vote of millions of european citizens who have opposed the inhuman slaughter has been decisive for us. the ban has not failed to have an effect. among other things, that law almost brought down the market, because the number of animals killed dropped from 217,000 in 2008 to 38,000 this year, and fur prices also dropped from $100 in 2006 to $15 in 2009. canada is now trying to tap into new markets, for example in china, but will also vote to ban trade there. it is therefore regrettable that canada is still trying to challenge this european law at the wto. that is why it is so important that parliament sends a strong signal to canada now. we will not give up the law we have worked so hard for, both inside and outside the union. i hope that the members will support a massive amendment which i have tabled with a number of colleagues tomorrow.
mr president, the death toll has increased further: 23 victims and more than 2 200 sick people in europe, to whom, of course, all our thoughts turn this morning. the german authorities have not yet been able to formally identify the source of the outbreak. in the meantime, vegetables in europe are being shunned and this health crisis has turned into an economic crisis as well, of course, and a social crisis. the vegetable sector rightly demands compensation and - the commissioner has said this - the ministers and commissioners concerned will meet on this subject this afternoon in luxembourg. beyond what has already been said about the precautionary principle, about the essential traceability - the first point - it is also a question of how this general warning indicating the spanish cucumber as the culprit could have been disseminated without evidence or almost. how, commissioner, does the commission intend to draw the necessary conclusions from this serious crisis so that our food alert system is more than ever based on sound and well sustained scientific evidence?
mr president, commissioner, as you said, the problem is not local, even if it is localized. i would urge you to say this more loudly and clearly, because we are in dire need of more european instruments and coordination on these issues. the message has been extremely confusing and has had a lot of consequences, including - as has been explained many times - for spanish producers but also for others, because they are not the only ones affected. the balance between early communication on the one hand and openness on the other is difficult. but precaution or the precautionary principle does not imply that we communicate wrongly, far too quickly. so things need to be put right, and those responsible for early communication also need to support the compensation. that's what you'll be discussing this afternoon. that is what is important, although obviously my thoughts go first, as everyone else does, to the victims. the farmers, however, are waiting for just compensation. the other issues of antibiotic resistance and traceability remain central issues on which we will have to work further.
president, commissioner, we must of course learn from the mistakes that have been made. there is the problem of coordination, there is the problem of coordination in germany - this has also been said by several german colleagues, both from the majority and the opposition - the two federal ministries, the 16 länder, the lack of coordination. there must be a strict national control system and we must examine how that is being done in germany, but above all in the other 26 member states. because now we are pointing the finger at germany, but perhaps we will be allowed to point at our own member state in the future. so the question must be asked: are the internal control systems in all national member states sufficiently strong? the european systems - mrs roth-behrendt has rightly said - are there, they work. there may be a lack of coordination. there's been a lack of communication. so that's what we're going for. i would first like to ask the commissioner whether he will respond to the request made by mr leinen and mrs roth-behrendt, among others, to find a genuine european solution. and secondly, can you say what you want to do at the summit on agriculture and how you want to compensate the farmers who have suffered damage?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, solidarity must play a part, it is a founding principle of the european union, but it must not allow the various actors to be discharged of their responsibilities. it is not normal that the german authorities did not, from the outset, give the european union a hand in a drama that has gone beyond their borders, at the end of their first press conference which wrongly implicated the spanish cucumber. it's not right to make accusations without evidence, to communicate without being sure and to cause such confusion. it is not right that all the principles of crisis communication should be flouted in this way. we have, because of this, gone from crisis to psychosis. these rumors and witch hunts fuelled by the authorities themselves have done enormous harm, it is irresponsible. the relationship of trust between consumers and producers is broken again. in order to prevent this tragedy from becoming a terrible waste, we must learn the lessons we need to learn: how best to ensure that crossborder traceability is seamlessly established and how to set up a european communication and crisis management unit. if we don't learn from this failure soon, 23 people will have died for nothing.
in writing. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our concern is first and foremost with the victims of this epidemic and their families. this disastrous situation must not be repeated; we need to learn from this early on, so that in the future, we can detect the cause more quickly, and communicate more efficiently and coordinatedly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. a lot of economic damage has been done that could have been avoided if more care had been taken with crisis communications. the affected entrepreneurs are entitled to compensation. that is why we are calling for the creation of a european emergency fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as commissioner dalli said this morning: "this is not a national, german problem. this is a european problem.' let us therefore also look at the matter in a european context. this crisis is also an opportunity to make it clear to the european citizen that europe is not leaving the victims of such a public health disaster in the lurch.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, in the matter before us, several important points must be raised - and i here reiterate the concerns of my fellow citizens. firstly, european consumers must be able to know what is on their plate. it is therefore essential to ensure full traceability of agricultural products at european level. secondly, we must ask germany to do everything possible to find the origin of the bacterium. in this respect, i welcome the commission's decision to send experts to germany. but the european executive must also do its work on a larger scale and check whether all the control, analysis and research systems have been properly complied with, because the food alert mechanisms must be improved and strengthened. thirdly, we must extend the scope of audits to the european level to ensure the effectiveness of monitoring systems. fourthly, let us not forget the farmers who have been wrongly suspected of having done nothing to cause harm to themselves. and many will suffer from consumer distrust! in this respect, european solidarity is needed in favour of concrete compensatory measures. thank you.
in writing. the response to the outbreak of ehec infection in northern germany raises important questions. first of all, we must consider the causes of this contamination and the elements which hinder its control. is there too much antibiotics in the feed? is too much intensive farming playing a part? to what extent do we need better labelling and tracing? these are important questions, especially as the review of the common agricultural policy is approaching. in addition, it has also become clear that there are still substantial pain points in the european crisis management system for food crises. especially in a situation like this, where there are two competent ministries per region in addition to the federal government, there is too much fragmentation and ambiguity in the approach to and communication about the crisis. in such crises it is crucial, both for consumers and for food producers, that a european coordination cell be set up as soon as possible, both to provide communication and to coordinate scientific research. this will allow much faster and more efficient searching for the causes of contamination by also making full use of the expertise of other european researchers and laboratories.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, if the plenary, hopefully by a large majority, approves the agreement we have negotiated between the institutions, we will be witnessing an important moment for the transport sector in europe, a milestone which could guide policy for the next decades. the immediate, concrete impact on the ground will of course depend on the political will of the member states to take advantage of the new opportunities. we're not imposing anything. we are only making things possible and in particular the application of a principle which we have been advocating for a number of years as a parliament, namely 'the polluter pays', the internalisation of external costs. some of us who are veterans know that we have been fighting hard for this since 2006, when mrs wortmann-kool led the last revision. in 2008 a commission proposal followed, which we have been working on for three years. those who have followed the case closely know how difficult it has been to achieve this result. it is a compromise, a compromise between the institutions, but also a compromise within the institutions, supported, for example, by the smallest possible majority in the council, but also opposed here in parliament. some think it is not ambitious enough and others think it is all going too far. it is the merit of the negotiating team and especially of the shadow rapporteurs who, together with myself, people from the council and the commission, have reached this delicate balance. i ask each of you to support the package we have achieved as a step in the right direction. it gives member states the opportunity for the first time to add noise and air pollution to the existing infrastructure charges, which are not yet applied consistently everywhere, in such a way as to encourage fleet renewal. at the same time, it allows member states to achieve more variation in the charge depending on the time of day the truck is on the road. this gives the authorities control over the way in which mobility is improved. at the same time, there is also a strong commitment, the strongest possible commitment, by member states to reinvest revenues in the transport system to make it more sustainable and to reinvest at least 15% of revenues in the trans-european transport network. at the same time - and this was an important question from the european parliament - there is clarity on the transparency requirement. member states must explain the level of revenue from these charges and what they will do with it to improve the transport system. the package will also be applied to a larger part of the fleet, in particular all vehicles over 3,5 tonnes. that is the principle, that is the norm, that is the agreement. it will also be applied to the whole motorway network. we have emphasized the importance of the interoperability of the system. one box per truck to cross europe, not 25 or 26. that's enshrined in the legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we had quite a discussion about that. the solution we have found in the form of a number of declarations by the three institutions is sufficient to establish no precedent. in conclusion, the eurovignette is not a panacea. we are not going to solve the mobility problem completely with this, of course not. it is an important part of a solution to a more sustainable transport system. price incentives will be an important element of that, but we will have to do much more than that. but it is a step in the right direction and i and my colleagues ask for your support.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, we are not going to win a beauty prize with what is on the table, despite the persistent and hard work of the rapporteur, whom i congratulate on that. the most important and the most difficult point i found was earmarking. what are the member states using the revenue from this levy for? will this make their transport economy more efficient? do we oblige them to do that? we didn't. so we don't have what we want at this point. it is a bit perverse that member states want to keep the road open to preserve revenue, even if the external costs are maintained. the aim of the levy is to reduce external costs as much as possible, preferably to zero. so better infrastructure, research for cleaner trucks, and so on, that's really what the money should be used for. one point that still bugs me is: if you have a variable charge during rush hour, how do you fight traffic jams if you don't treat all the causes of those traffic jams the same way? this is a question which we had on paper at first reading, something the council did not want to know about. so the efficiency of some of the things we do is not really 100%. what we do have - and mr ertug has already referred to this - is more openness. member states are required to report on how much they collect and what they have done to improve the system. so i hope there's a discussion between the payers, the trucking industry, and the government about the use of this money, about efficiency. that's one of the good things. i am not enthusiastic, but i did defend this in my group because we are writing an important principle, namely the internalisation of external costs, into european legislation for the first time. that means we can start the process of making the calculation for all modes of transport for all external costs so that your economy improves, and also improves your sustainability. the commissioner has included in the white paper a number of measures which make this step necessary. if we do not approve this, we will also be stuck with the white paper on a number of points. it is strange that in the council - and i am not blaming the hungarian presidency, madam president, you have done your best - it is always so difficult to reach an agreement. this is an important, an essential first step in a long process.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur and his colleagues for their work. it was not easy to find a compromise here. this is also because many people in this house are not, of course, 100% in agreement with the result. some were for it, others were against it. but i want to warn you, before i go on, about the absurd situation that those who expect more will join forces with those who expect nothing, and thus make the whole thing fail. i hope that those who want to internalize the costs and who consider this to be a very small step forward will support this compromise. this is largely the position of the epp, although not of all delegations, because we are in favour of internalising costs in all modes of transport and we are also in favour of using the means of mobility. that was one of the most important points for us. we are not concerned, as has just been said, with increasing the cost of transport. the price tag doesn't make him more efficient. we want to ensure that we have a proper balance, that part of the money raised in the context of mobility is also invested in this area. another important point for us is interoperability. we do not want technically different toll systems in europe. 27 different systems in the future is unreasonable. i come from a border area where they charge six times the toll for a half hour drive through the area. it's not sustainable. the council should be a little more flexible than it has been in the past. we're also putting emphasis on eco-friendly trucks. that means that we are also setting a direction here, and as already said, what is being introduced here is not binding. so those who are in favour of internalising costs are certainly not happy with this. i would also like to see it made compulsory in all countries. we have had this debate so many times in this house. what do we want tomorrow? twenty-seven different charging systems, or do we want all countries to operate under the same rules? or do we have to wait for another crisis to call europe again? because one thing is clear to me, even with the eurovignette: only europe can provide the solution. the various fees in the individual countries do not bring them. (applause from the centre)
mr president, today there is nothing to be proud of, we are far from a green transport system, as has been said. what's in this text? what's he saying? it simply allows member states, on a voluntary basis, to use a polluter pays system. and it's so tight, so limited, that it's going to cost roughly three to four cents more. how can we imagine that with three or four hundred more mark-ups we will have a real effect on the transfer of modes? so it's not a big success from an ecological point of view. this is what has become of the famous principle of internalising external costs, after the council's 'roller-coaster' - sorry, madam - after so much resistance, and despite the rapporteur's considerable efforts. we shall nevertheless vote in favour of this principle because it is an important one. it is a principle like others - we have already spoken of the precautionary principle - which has earned its noble letters in european directives. we shall vote in favour of this principle. it is only a principle, the whole battle is still to be fought and we will continue to fight it to have a real change of modes and a greener transport system, better for health and for the fight against climate change.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i thank everyone for the support and the comments, including the opponents. the transport sector is important to our economy. however, it also causes costs, infrastructure costs, but also other costs such as fine dust in the air, noise, traffic jams, and so on. with this revised directive we are finally creating a european framework which will enable member states to recover these costs in full from those who have caused them. at the same time, it also allows member states to generate resources to reinvest in the transport system to make it more sustainable so that those external costs are actually reduced. they can improve the liveability of our society, increase efficiency in the sector and also contribute to a more level playing field between modes of transport, thus also giving rail and inland waterway additional opportunities. i have already stressed in my introduction how difficult it was to achieve this. the commission's white paper also aims to make the internalisation of external costs compulsory by 2020. that promises heated debate in the years ahead. in the meantime, i hope first of all that there will be enough support from this house to enable us to move forward and to show that europe can also make decisions that are good for our citizens. secondly, i hope that some countries will now really make use of the new possibilities and with good results will be able to catch up with other countries. that way we can build a wider base of support to go further. the european commission has already had a lot of homework to do in this directive. in the coming years we must examine whether we should not internalise other external costs, whether we should not make it compulsory, or whether other types of vehicle should not be included. that's something for years to come. just this first step forward.
in writing. the main mission of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) is to collect information on drugs and drug addiction in order to produce and disseminate objective, reliable and comparable data at european level. the emcdda is, in fact, open to any third country which shares the interests of the eu. croatia had been applying for it since 2005. it will also be part of the european information network on drugs and drug addiction. for me, this report also reflects the need to improve the exchange of data between member states and european agencies and, above all, to prepare for possible accession in a more measured way than the 'great' enlargement to the countries of central and eastern europe (ceecs) that took place in 2004 and 2007.
in writing. the primary objective of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) is to collect data on drugs and drug addiction in order to prepare and publish objective, reliable and comparable information at european level. the republic of croatia will thus participate in the observatory's work programme, be linked to the european information network on drugs and drug addiction (reitox) and share data with the emcdda. the republic of croatia is a transit zone for drugs from producer countries and remains one of the main transit points for drug trafficking to the european union. however, in 2010 it adopted a programme to implement an action plan to combat drug addiction and a national prevention programme for young people. the training of police officers and the provision of necessary equipment also continued. croatia's participation in the emcdda will thus enable it to understand and better deal with this problem through an exchange of information. this participation is also an encouraging signal for croatia's forthcoming accession to the european union.
in writing. the objective of this proposal is to extend the scope of the proposal for a regulation on the crossborder transport of euro cash by road between member states in the euro area (main proposal) to the territory of member states which are about to adopt the euro. the period before the changeover to the euro leads to an increased need to transport euro cash. i welcome this extension of the scope (although it should be noted that the legal basis here is article 352 tfeu, which means that the european parliament has only the power of approval).
in writing. global navigation satellite systems (gnss) applications are a central and indispensable component of activity in all transport-related fields and their proper functioning makes transport safer, more environmentally friendly and more economical. the european union cannot remain dependent on systems originally designed for other purposes by other countries. given the high added value of the gnss and galileo projects to european industrial policy, their success is essential. a targeted action plan is the best option to provide new momentum and make a significant contribution to safety and environmental objectives and to improving the flow of traffic for road transport. in addition, satellite navigation systems must ensure interoperability between different systems, including conventional systems. the extension of the egnos system coverage must be a priority. it must then be extended to the whole of the european continent, but also to the euro-mediterranean partnership countries, as well as to the middle east and africa. finally, the commission should propose measures to ensure a sufficient level of funding without affecting other funds allocated to transport policy.
in writing. the european parliament today approved by a large majority the revision of the eurovignette directive. the text provides that heavy goods vehicles will pay for air pollution and noise pollution. the agreement approved today allows member states to charge road hauliers for the cost of air and noise pollution, in addition to the price of using motorway infrastructure. this is an important revision, but it is only a small step in the right direction. because the regulations are not binding! i am therefore still waiting for new proposals which make these new measures compulsory by including the cost of all environmental damage and extend the polluter pays principle to all modes of transport. the text also insists that the revenue from toll collection be effectively used. on this point, parliament obliged the member states to invest part of the revenue from tolling in improving road infrastructure and mobility. it should also be possible to extend these sampling to projects such as reducing air pollution and noise pollution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this compromise on the revision of the 'euro-vignette' directive, the aim of which is to introduce the 'polluter pays' principle for heavy goods vehicles on motorways. the member states will finally be able to include in their taxes or tolls the real costs of air and noise pollution from road transport, whereas only infrastructure costs could be taken into account until now. the compromise falls short of the european parliament's ambitions and will not, on its own, revolutionise road transport, whose sector and member states are clearly not yet ready to shoulder the real cost of the ecological footprint. the average additional cost should not exceed 4 cents per vehicle per kilometre, and trucks with the cleanest engines and operating in off-peak hours would be exempt. but this reform was on the back burner before the belgian presidency put it back on the council's table. and this is a step forward that i welcome, a positive first step towards more sustainable road transport.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation dates back to a decision of the european council of june 2006. at the time, the eu decided to extend the existing national accounts and the statistical data to be collected to the main aspects of sustainable development. to complement national accounts and data, the commission has proposed a regulation to establish european environmental economic accounts. in accordance with the commission's proposal, the member states should therefore be provided with a common methodology and accounting standards, definitions, classifications and rules, which should be brought together in a framework binding on each of them. although i believe that priority should first be given to data already available (i.e. collected at regional, national and european level), i am of the opinion that if the need for these additional modules is proven, does not generate unnecessary bureaucracy and additional costs, in this case eurostat should be allowed to collect data from member states for the creation of economic and environmental accounts at european level. that is why i also welcomed the establishment of these new european environmental economic accounts and proposed to extend their scope to other modules.
on behalf of the alde group. – yes, i noticed that some of my colleagues are still on the fire drill. yesterday commissioner olli rehn announced a number of important steps in the commission. first of all, he asked for a number of changes to a rescue mechanism. he said it is necessary for this mechanism to be able to provide countries with flexible credit lines. he said that this mechanism has to be able to go to the secondary market and, most importantly, he said that this can be done by discounted swaps with its own aaa rated bonds. this is very important because it means that you can swap bad bonds from countries in difficulties with the rescue mechanism’s aaa bonds. secondly, he also said that the commission should start to examine the possibility of eurobonds – finally, i may say. my question to you, mr barroso, is can you confirm that this is also the position of the commission? secondly, as time is pressing, will you propose these changes to the rescue mechanism at the next european council meeting in two weeks’ time?
on behalf of the alde group. – i do not think that the crisis concerning greece and the euro is over. it is not over. so we have to find additional instruments. one of the additional instruments is, in fact, what olli rehn is proposing – a swap of bad bonds from some countries for a smaller package of aaa rated eurobonds. that is the way forward. these eurobonds can be issued by the efsf, by the esm or by a new european agency in the future. that does not matter. it is the mechanism that is important and it is important that, for the first time, i think, olli rehn and the commission recognise that it is the way forward.
the agenda shall include the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on sudan and south sudan (2011/2717 ((rsp)). i understand that mr piebalgs is taking her place, and i thank him for that. i therefore give the floor to you, commissioner, on behalf of the commission and on his behalf.
the s&d group is calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of civil society organisations. indeed, it is in terms of dignity and emotion that the sudanese people speak of this event. mr piebalgs, i had prepared a three-minute speech. when i listened to you, i wondered if i should talk. i would like to compliment you on this: i think we can be proud here in this parliament of the action of the whole european union, of the way in which this sudanese matter has been handled and i really cross my fingers with the sudanese people that we will succeed in carrying this through to independence and beyond. you have mentioned the main issues, that is the abyei issue that is still unresolved, the political decisions that had to be made - we said it - on citizenship, debt, currency, etc., but above all you have talked about what you want to do in terms of development and in humanitarian terms, about the fact that justice must be done and that we are not going to sell out the international criminal court. actually, you said the gist of it. i'll just add a few points. as regards the development and humanitarian problems, it is true that much remains to be done in south sudan, that the north must continue to be developed and above all not be isolated. everything has to be done because the country has lived on oil. it has not developed a diversified economy, there is no education, no roads, no hospitals, etc. the needs and expectations of the people are immense and if we do not want them to be disappointed by independence, development and humanitarian aid will have to remain for a long time to come. let us keep that in mind. on the question of human rights, women's rights and political pluralism, polygamy exists even in the south. women are bought with cows, eighty per cent of women are illiterate, children's rights have yet to be established, political pluralism has yet to be invented, there is no culture of political pluralism - we saw this during the elections and the referendum. it is at once exciting and wonderful. i met with the election commission of south sudan, north sudan, but mostly south sudan. they want to make laws, they want a good constitution, they want to build their country and they say to us: "we'll get the money, don't worry, but help us, be there". i think that in this respect you have been able to answer that request. your passage, mrs georgieva's passage in the past and mrs ashton's probable coming for independence are major events. the fact that you wanted to present a strategic plan for south sudan is what we ask after every election, especially not a one shot, a follow-up, a future for the countries we are going to. for all this, mr piebalgs, today - i have completely changed my text - i would like to thank you, because as i say, it is good to be able to be proud of the european union, especially in these difficult times.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 9 june 2011, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft council decision on the application of all the provisions of the schengen acquis in bulgaria and romania (14142/2010 - c7-0369/2010 2010/0820 (nle)) (a7-0185/2011)
i am afraid, mr president, that the european parliament would once again show its most alien side if it were to approve the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. in any case, it is certain that there are several member states which will oppose this. and they have good reasons for doing so. the recent europol report on organised crime, for example, states that criminal groups from albania, turkey and the former soviet union will take advantage of the opportunities and opportunities that the accession of romania and bulgaria will offer. the report also mentions the visa exemption for the balkan countries, which was another of the frivolous measures. there is the problem of illegal immigration through turkey, which will be even more massive when bulgaria joins the schengen area. what guarantees does the commission give that this problem will be tackled effectively? not one. what measures have been taken to prevent further problems arising from roma causing nuisance and crime? neither did any of them. what about the judicial reforms and anti-corruption measures that are still needed? the romanian and bulgarian citizens who travel to schengen countries with good intentions will in any case - i am convinced - understand that the inconvenience of border controls does not outweigh the need to protect all other europeans from organised crime and mass illegal immigration.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have here the letter from the representative of her majesty’s government on the sure report. the letter says that her majesty’s government is disappointed by the draft sure report. colleagues, i think that means that we have a very good draft sure report here today! i have to tell you that beyond the three or four words saying that her majesty’s government is disappointed by the report, the other parts of the letter are a real provocation: a provocation to europe and the european union, because their main point is that no increase in the multiannual financial framework (mff) is possible, and that we have to stick to the old mff, the same figures, the same resources, naturally the same rebates, and certainly the same rebate for the uk. we must change nothing at all. her majesty’s government is nevertheless a government that wants to take decisions, that wants to reform not only the uk but also the european union. so i do not see why we have to stick to the old mff and simply continue with the policies of the past. i think that the time is now ripe to say to the public that it is not by cutting this eu budget of 1% [eu gdp] that we will solve the fiscal consolidation of the different member states of the european union. this 1% is only one-fortieth of the total expenditure within the european union. there are other ways to make savings. another suggestion that we can make to her majesty’s government is that, if it wants to make savings in the british public sector, it can do so by increasing the role of the european union. let me give you three examples. first of all, foreign policy. in the us there are 28 000 diplomats. in europe there are 93 000: there are four times more diplomats in europe because we are not working together under a single foreign policy. there is a saving to be made there. if the british government invested more in the european union they could make savings on their foreign policy, in william hague’s department. another example is monetary policy. around 44 000 people are responsible for monetary policy in the european union. in the us there are 18 000 in the federal reserve board. that is three times fewer civil servants. if the british government wants to make savings it can join the euro, it can give more the european union more powers and responsibilities, and it can make savings with regard to all those people working on monetary policy in britain. if it wants to make savings in great britain it can do so in the research sector simply by adopting the european patent immediately. that would make enormous savings in its research budget. that is the answer that we have to give to her majesty’s government. (applause)
mr president, as far as i know, mr böge is a member of the cdu in germany. i wonder whether his plea for own resources of the eu reflects his own personal position or the position of his party in germany?
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. firstly, i do not find in this report, which is very substantial, any serious attempt to propose structural savings, such as the abolition of what i consider to be completely unnecessary european institutions, such as the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and a whole host of european agencies of all kinds. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. secondly, i am absolutely hesitant about the repeated proposals for european taxes or for the issuing of european public loans, which will have to be repaid by someone sooner or later. and the fact that such a thing would not increase the overall tax burden on citizens is simply a lie, a fraud of the lowest order, in this report. moreover, it would reduce the last bit of supervision and control by the member states over the expenditure of the european institutions. these are the main reasons why i cannot support this report.
mr president, this morning mr daul came running to speak here in the plenary on the need for a bigger eu budget, but he was running so fast that he was running out of breath and had to stop speaking. this reflects very well the debate on the multiannual budget. the eu budget is fixed at about 1% of eu gdp; the commission and parliament say, ‘that is not enough, we want more money’. yet the eu is unable to spend the money available; billions of euros in regional cohesion funds remain unspent. some money has to be returned to member states. so why do you need more money if you cannot spend the money you have? but then, here in this parliament we have a couple of ‘pavlovs’: mr schulz, mr daul, mr verhofstadt, all absent now – they have run away instead of speaking here to focus the budget on quality rather than quantity. for example, by limiting regional and cohesion funds to the poorer member states, saving 30% of those funds, and investing that money in innovation and future oriented policies. but i am sure that the eu pavlovs will yet again run into the brick wall of the eu council later this year.
mr president, for the same and different reasons, but in any case aggravated by the crisis, national budgets - as has been said - are all in difficulty, that is obvious. in each of our countries, regardless of the majority, efforts must be made from the budgetary point of view. in this situation, there are two options. the first is that of carrying out the necessary efforts alone, trying to manipulate expenditure and revenue with more or less success, sometimes even, in some cases - as i have heard - by venerating austerity as an end in itself and the deep cuts in public expenditure and in replacement income, thus aggravating the situation of our citizens. the other option - and this is the one i want to defend - is to pool and consolidate our budgetary efforts, which allows us to play the game of budgetary solidarity and the game of own resources together, inter alia, by means of a tax on financial transactions. and this is the work of budgetary complementarity that we want to do in the famous convention, the one that we have already served to the council during the conciliation and that we will strengthen in this report. we must work together: the european union, national parliaments, governments, to find together ways of uniting our expenditure and our budgetary methods, because we cannot want both the butter and the money from the butter, that is to say, both the rebate and, at the same time, expenditure on infrastructure. we cannot want to give less and at the same time receive more. i therefore believe that this convention, this system of dialogue between governments, the european union, national parliaments and the european parliament, is the right way, also in the long term, to restore confidence in the european project.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report is important for the future of the european project, which must be solidary and ambitious, especially in the context of the current budgetary crises affecting the member states. in a very liberal approach, a majority of the heads of state in the council adhere to a blind and incoherent approach to budget cuts, ready to sacrifice investment in major future policies such as those financed by the european budget. the freezing of this budget would be harmful to growth, contrary to the arguments of some colleagues. an increase of at least 5%, as reflected in this consensus report, must be the minimum to meet the challenges and achieve european solidarity. this european solidarity requires the financing of the 2020 strategy, particularly in its social objectives, including the fight against poverty. european solidarity must also be confirmed - i am convinced of this in this report - by the creation of intermediate regions so that cohesion policy can cover the whole of europe to the extent necessary. finally, another example is the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is a real instrument of solidarity for european workers, and whose usefulness has been recognised in this report. this increase in the volume of the multiannual financial framework is a necessity which should not be seen as a burden for the member states, in particular because of the added value of the european budget and the future financial transaction tax.
in writing. the right to freedom of movement is one of the most fundamental and visible rights conferred on citizens of the union. in the schengen area, it is now possible to move around without any identity checks at the borders. what a change from the days when europe was dotted with border posts where checks, sometimes piecemeal, were the rule, not to mention the impossibility, if not the danger of their lives, for citizens of eastern countries to cross the iron curtain! currently, there are 25 participating states. romania and bulgaria should soon join this circle, at least that is my wish. these two countries adopted the schengen acquis when they joined the european union in 2007. in view of the results of the evaluations and visits carried out by the teams of experts, i am fully in favour of the full participation of these two member states in the schengen area, even if some issues remain to be resolved and will require follow-up. however, i would add that it would be unfortunate to impose new conditions along the way, unknown at the time of application and evaluation.
in writing. since the financial and economic crisis, they have been the talk of the town: credit rating agencies (cras). but what about their now indispensable role? the european parliament has dealt with the matter. while rating agencies have several interesting functions (such as centralising information on the credit quality of issuers, which is particularly useful in our globalised world, etc.), in fact, the evolution of the regulatory framework has elevated these 'information intermediaries' into 'regulatory authorities'! but that is a pitfall to be avoided! the financial crisis has highlighted the three major problems in the sector: the lack of competition, the excessive reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework and the fact that ncas are not legally responsible for their ratings.
in writing. the external dimension of social policy aims to promote basic social standards in third countries in order to meet the united nations millennium development goals and to ensure the protection of workers through compliance with international labour standards. the eu is far from behind and that is why it must be able to take advantage of its credibility and 'good reputation' in this area to build social alliances with its main trading partners and promote this at the wto and ilo level. in order to sit at the same negotiating table as the eu, these third countries must be required to subscribe to the same basic international labour standards.
in writing. future estimates of employability and qualifications require 15.6 million new jobs in the eu for graduates of higher education and 3.7 million for graduates of secondary education (source: cedefop). on the other hand, 12 million jobs will be lost to those with lower levels of qualification! in the face of this predicted disaster, strategy 2020 had to set itself the objective of making vocational education and training more attractive. the report calls for a results-oriented approach to learning, improved recognition of formal and informal learning, and the establishment of help centres and pathways for learners with more difficulties.
in writing. in a globalised world, quality education and vocational training are the keys to entry into the labour market that every young person should have. the global economy requires skills, flexibility, availability and language skills. in the face of these demands, it is our duty as women and politicians to implement strategies to ensure: • learning based on results; • educating for entrepreneurship; • provide gateways for people with low skills who want to enter the world of work, in particular through adapted education; • simplify the procedures for the recognition of foreign diplomas in order to help workers' mobility; • to establish a european framework for quality placements throughout the eu; • lifelong learning to enable workers to adapt to market conditions or to the needs of the enterprise. • promoting creativity and information and communication technologies. • supporting women's work by helping to reconcile work and private life.
in writing. the future financing instrument for development cooperation will need to be sufficiently resourced in the run-up to the mdgs. donor countries must meet their commitments to spend 0.7% of gdp on oda by 2015. as i have said before, there is no justification for reducing aid. official development assistance now stands at over usd 120 billion. we can do more and better. doing more and doing better also goes beyond increasing resources. budgeting the european development fund (edf) would be a welcome step forward, provided it does not lead to a reduction in the total amounts of funding at eu level. i am also in favour of more general or sectoral budget support and fewer projects where macroeconomic and governance criteria allow. on the one hand, it makes it possible to mobilize financial resources rapidly to rebuild or reconsolidate the state. on the other hand, it is the only aid that is guaranteed to be absorbed optimally. finally, i believe that we must ensure that aid is more effective.
in writing. impact assessments are particularly useful tools for improving the quality of legislative action (e.g. policy proposals). since then, however, these impact assessments have had to be adapted: further adaptations are needed, in particular through the establishment of an independent mechanism, since the impact assessments proposed by the european commission are often inconsistent from a qualitative point of view and generally serve only to justify a legislative proposal rather than to allow an objective examination of the facts. the report voted today provides, and i welcome this, for the ia to be carried out in a totally independent manner; the commission has also proposed that ai take into account a wider range of criteria (socio-economic, environmental, etc.) and that maximum transparency be ensured, particularly at expert level. how often this question is asked in this house, but how important it is!
in writing. there is currently no european contract law, although the desirability of such a law has been debated within the european institutions for over 20 years. the commission now intends to propose by regulation the introduction of an optional instrument, commonly known as the '28th law', which could govern crossborder contracts. the desire to simplify contract law and to develop crossborder trade is commendable, but i doubt whether it is appropriate, since there is a high risk of circumventing national rules which provide maximum consumer protection. i have therefore decided to abstain on this own-initiative report pending a proposal for a commission regulation on this subject.
in writing. the european parliament has always supported the european union's global navigation satellite system (gnss), which is being implemented through the galileo and egnos programmes. unfortunately, today the european union is dependent on the global positioning system (gps) of the united states. however, galileo offers clear advantages over the gps system. in addition, egnos is used daily by 80,000 european farmers and has recently been certified for civil aviation and should soon be certified for maritime transport. space policy and the gnss programme are of strategic importance and must bring tangible benefits to citizens and businesses. in this context, the commission should ensure the compatibility and interoperability of galileo with other satellite navigation systems. finally, it is important that these european programmes receive the necessary funding to be implemented.
in writing. − the report on the eu's multiannual financial framework in no way takes account of the sights of the member states, the voters and the taxpayers in europe. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. it is a matter of extreme arrogance and worldliness not to take that into account. europe must put its finger on the pulse, limit itself to its core tasks and also implement a series of savings itself. only in this way can the confidence of the electorate be regained.
in writing. doing more with less money, as some member states advocate, is impossible! that is why the report adopted this afternoon on the new multiannual financial framework post-2013 is important. it provides the guidelines for the european union to move towards an era of competitiveness, solidarity and good governance. it recalled that, in the absence of significant budgetary reallocation or additional resources, europe would be unable to fulfil the new tasks assigned to it by the lisbon treaty or to embark on a path of sustainable growth. however, there are many areas which can contribute to synergies or economies of scale: the european external action service, humanitarian aid and civil protection, pooling of defence resources, research and innovation, major infrastructure projects (especially in the energy and transport sectors). another idea that must be put forward is the gradual abandonment of environmentally harmful subsidies, on the model of what the commission has done for tobacco. i also welcome the fact that the european parliament has reaffirmed its choice for own resources because it is legitimate for the union to manage its own budget.
in writing. the european union is built on fundamental values and principles such as equality between women and men. but by approving the new constitution, which states that the fetus must be protected from the moment of conception, one of its member states, hungary, has trampled on these values by opening the way to a challenge to the right to abortion. i also learn that the hungarian government has launched a billboard campaign against abortion rights, funded, and thus apparently backed, by the european union. i would like to remind you that the right to abortion is a fundamental right for which thousands of women in europe have fought and are still fighting, often at the risk of their lives. i am glad that the european parliament has supported it and that the hungarian people support it, and that it is recognised in 23 out of 27 member states. in addition to not being associated with such a policy which is against the fundamental rights of women, the european commission must do everything possible to ensure that the hungarian government stops any campaign aimed at undermining the right to abortion. this is about protecting our common values.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed of the utmost importance to know whether the directive on misleading and comparative advertising is being properly transposed and applied in the member states. but we must also deal urgently and in depth with other fundamental aspects of this problem, which can also be applied to other forms of crossborder fraud. firstly, the information which must be given to consumers in advance by the commission, the member states and their organisations. it is not right that more and more citizens are being cheated. secondly, victims should have access to collective redress to defend their interests. we've been waiting for these appeals for over 20 years. thirdly, the current discussion on the reform of alternative dispute settlement could also include provisions to deal with these scams. we expect you, commissioner, to take concrete and very rapid measures in this respect.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in natural gas and repealing regulation (eec) no 4064/89 (com (97) 0241 - c4-0414/97). in this respect, the modesty preached by the colleagues of the european people's party is a little out of place. if fukushima has taught us anything, it's that we're not prepared for disasters, that we're not prepared for all kinds of things that can happen with the greatest possible consequences. in that respect, commissioner, i am not interested in whether you receive a lot of compliments or a lot of criticism. what i'm interested in are the results. we are concerned, very concerned. because the worst that can happen is that we will have stress tests, results that are the perfect alibi for many operators of very old nuclear power stations, including in the region where i live, to keep them open longer instead of closing them. i have two questions. how will you ensure that independence is truly guaranteed? secondly, how will you ensure that the results actually lead to the closure of the oldest nuclear power stations?
madam president, i would like to congratulate commissioner oettinger on his unwavering determination from the outset on this difficult issue of nuclear safety, given the fact that this is largely a matter of national competence. our first demand - it has already been said - is, of course, the revision of this euratom treaty, which has remained virtually unchanged since its inception. the audit of the 143 european nuclear reactors will, of course, ultimately be limited to the so-called "fukushima" scenario. you have clearly defined the limits, commissioner. this is already a first victory, it is a real break with the culture of secrecy that has characterized this sector for more than forty years now. the nuclear industry, more than others, must understand that transparency is crucial to all these safety issues - you have certainly repeated the word more than ten times, commissioner - as is independence, with the appointment of seconded experts, both from operators and from state trustees, and on this issue we remain unsatisfied.
it is essential that we set the bar high with these stress tests and that these tests are effectively applied throughout europe according to the same criteria. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear power stations are not used in the same way as the nuclear power stations in the community. the fact that there is an independent, objective european investigation of each nuclear installation is very positive because it strengthens european energy policy. i would like to thank you for that, commissioner. all european citizens have the right to know whether these nuclear power stations are actually safe. that acts of terror and cyberattacks are not covered by these stress tests, let's face it. you have explained why and we understand that. but that should not, of course, relieve the european commission of its duty to continue to harass the member states and to put pressure on the national safety services to ensure that they effectively investigate whether the plants are also prepared for these risks. the credibility of these tests depends, of course, on the implementation of the results. we must take into account that some of the 143 nuclear power stations in europe will not survive these tests, that there will be 'victims' and that some of them may have to be closed. of course, that is a unique moment to switch to renewable energy sources. it is clear, and mr leinen said it earlier, that at the moment a solution is first and foremost at european level, that we will have to move towards joint european investments, coordinated investments and also towards joint european financing through project bonds. we are counting on you to take the lead in this new step towards the development of a european energy policy. thank you, and good luck.
in writing. the security situation in abyei state is of great concern. i urge the parties to engage in a peaceful dialogue by resuming talks with the african union. i am calling for a referendum as provided for in the global peace agreement (gpa). both north and south will have to commit to resolving several crucial outstanding issues, such as the demarcation of the border between the two states, the sharing of oil revenues, the use of pipelines, citizenship and the organisation of popular consultations in blue nile and south kordofan. support for south sudan must be one of our priorities. we encourage it to sign and ratify the cotonou agreement, which will open the door to new cooperation prospects. we encourage it, as we do khartoum, to establish a pluralistic and multiethnic democracy, an independent civil society, with a key role for the judiciary, alongside the legislative and executive powers. we look forward to welcoming a south sudanese parliamentarian once south sudan has signed and ratified the cotonou agreement within the ppa. we must keep our eyes on the north, not ignore it or isolate it diplomatically.
author. - mr president, this is not the first time that the tragedy of madagascar has been discussed in this house. since the february 2010 resolution until today, things have hardly changed, if not for the worse, for the people of madagascar. i think of him first of all because he is the main victim. beyond that, there is a power struggle going on today that seems to have no end. the european parliament had already clearly expressed, more than a year ago, its support for the idea of a democratic process that could lead to elections. that still hasn't happened. rajoelina is still in place. he cannot stand for re-election, we remind him of that in this resolution, and that must be clear. i would simply like to make the case that the negotiations with sadc, which have so far failed to produce a conclusive result, should have a chance of succeeding. that is why i am choosing a tone of voice that is measured against the situation, so as to give a chance to a negotiation which should take place very urgently and, i hope, be successful.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all the key question of this debate today is what we can expect from this european council on thursday and on friday. what i hope, and what my group is hoping – as, i think, are the majority in this parliament – is that we can end this summit with a more decisive, more comprehensive and bolder approach to the current crisis. let us be honest, we do not have a global comprehensive approach to this current crisis. it is not on the table today either in the council or in parliament. i would say to martin schulz that i also have some questions about rating agencies and the role they are playing in the current crisis, but let us try to find errors and the sources of the crisis within our own ranks, and maybe not outside the european union and outside its institutions. let us be honest about another thing: the crisis is not over. those who think that by giving some additional money to greece this crisis will come to an end – as regards greece and the euro – are wrong. this crisis is not over, and this crisis will continue if, first of all, we do not find a structural solution for greece and, secondly, if we do not create a real, economic and political union in europe. such measures should end the crisis as regards the euro and greece. again, is it possible to have one currency and 17 governments, 17 economic strategies and 17 bond markets – as we have today and is a situation which does not exist elsewhere in the world? it is only us in europe who think that we can have one monetary union and 17 different policies, 17 different governments and 17 different bond markets. it is not only us – the federalists in the european parliament – who are saying that. yesterday, mr lipsky, the current managing director of the international monetary fund (imf), said that europe should create one political and economic union to face this crisis. yesterday it was mr geithner, the us minister of finance, who was saying ‘maybe they can stop and talk with each other; let them create an economic and political union’. if they know on the other side of the atlantic what we have to do, why do we not have the courage to take this enormous step forward to an economic and political union? that is the key question for the tomorrow’s council. as regards my second point, we need to help greece – and not only in a defensive way. we need a bold austerity programme, and that is currently what is being discussed with the greek government. maybe there are plans to go further than what is on the table now. if so, we need a positive plan for it. they cannot emerge from the crisis based only on austerity. they need to have growth and investment and we can deliver on that within the european union. let us, for example, give guarantees for private investment. private investment no longer exists in greece. let us give them loans from the european investment bank. why not use part of the privatisation programme not for fiscal consolidation but to create new investment and growth in greece. i now have a request for mr daul, and will therefore continue in french. je vais le dire en français. m. daul a la nea dimokratia dans son groupe. il faut être très clair là-dessus. il faut aussi – si nous voulons donner de l'argent de tous les autres pays à la grèce – qu'il y ait un consensus politique en grèce. je crois que nous pouvons faire appel à m. daul, qui a dit des choses vraies, pour convaincre ses amis politiques d'aboutir à ce consensus politique pour parvenir à cette politique de la grèce. (applaudissements) nous avons besoin de cela. je sais bien, c'est une lourde tâche que nous vous confions, joseph, mais je sais que vous êtes à la hauteur de ce défi. il est vrai, en effet, qu'un pays qui est dans une telle situation aspire à l'unité politique, et ce n'est pas en jouant à des petits jeux politiques, comme on est en train de le faire en grèce, qu'on va en sortir. j'en ai fait l'expérience en belgique, en effet, monsieur lange, pendant neuf ans. mr president, let us be very honest. we need a bolder economic governance package than we have on the table today. i want to ask president barroso something directly: yesterday, the spokesman for the european commission said at the press conference that there was no need for more reverse qmv in the governance package. i would ask you, mr barroso, to rectify this. i would ask that the commission, together with the european parliament, employ a more communitarian method for the economic governance package. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, in most of the countries mr daul is talking about, we are in coalition with the christian democrats, so this must certainly have an effect. but i do not think that this afternoon, before such an important council, we should play the partisan card of opposing one government to another. my appeal to you, joseph, is not to play the liberal card against the epp card or against the socialist card. what i asked you to do was to convince your friends in the new democracy party, many of whom are also our friends, by the way, and some of whom have even now joined my group, and who aspire to one thing: to bring the greek people together to get out of their crisis. and you can play a big part in that. i'm counting on you. (the speaker agrees to answer two 'blue card' questions from mr komoutsakos and mr ransdorf (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr president, it is obvious that if we do not resolve the greek problem we will have huge problems in the whole euro zone. we already have problems in portugal today; we already have problems in ireland today. the difference in spreads today – between portugal and germany, between ireland and germany – is more than 800 basic points. so what we are doing – with the solidarity that we needed from the beginning of this crisis but which was not there – is not only for greece; it has to be for all member states of the euro zone. it was because of this lack of solidarity that, in december 2009, we created a far bigger problem – the problem we are facing today.
madam president, let us admit that we came close to the worst with the introduction of 1 267 amendments, which is why the socialist and democratic group opted for the introduction of a minimum number of amendments. we are pleased to have a strong and united position alongside our fictitious rapporteur, stéphane le foll, and to have been able to contribute, with the other groups and the rapporteur, to an ambitious compromise. what i think is essential is that aid should be directed mainly to active farmers, not to landowners, to give priority to food security, but also to sustainable agriculture, which is more environmentally friendly, ensures better management of resources and plays a role in combating global warming. we also welcome the mandatory inclusion of greening in the first pillar and a fairer distribution of direct payments between member states and between agricultural sectors. for the first time in history, we have introduced a degressive system of aid based on criteria relating to employment and environmental aspects. as for young farmers, support and encouragement measures have been taken to support and encourage them to set up. in short, all the ingredients are in place for the commission and parliament to work together to shape the new common agricultural, food and environmental policy that we so badly need.
motion for a resolution (doc. a 2-211/87) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (87) 0173 - doc. that is the importance it attaches to european agriculture and european farmers. it is still 40% of the budget, and it would have been worthwhile for the hungarian presidency to have stayed for this debate. i wanted it said.
in writing. agriculture is undoubtedly the economic sector in which community integration has been most advanced. today's debate comes as the commission is due to make crucial reform proposals in october. the report we have discussed is a compromise in this house. it maintains two strong pillars: the first pillar of direct aid must be appropriately endowed in line with the challenges facing agriculture and therefore financed at the minimum level of current funding, but it will nevertheless be more complementary to the second pillar on measures to support sustainable development. in my view, we must just take the necessary measures to ensure that the greening of the first pillar does not add to the ecological constraints already heavily imposed on farmers, whose primary role is food production. a hand is also being extended to young farmers who are having difficulty getting started in the profession. but it is clear that to achieve these objectives there must be no cuts in the union's budget! what good is it to have ambitions if you cannot afford to achieve them?
for the greens/efa group mr president, the greens want economic governance. not to please, not to make a nice picture, but simply to, by building on the euro, give europeans the tools to enable them to meet the challenges of the 21st century, namely to ensure a decent life for everyone, not just the happy few, and to do so, and this is what is new, of course, within the physical limits of the planet. as such, we support the texts on budgetary frameworks and the macroeconomic pillar of the economic governance package. all the indicators that have been selected seem acceptable to us, even though we would have liked to see income inequality included, which is a very clear symptom of the malfunctioning of both the economy and society and should therefore be a warning indicator. our agreement on the macroeconomic aspect is, however, conditional on the fact that the symmetry is maintained. in other words, we believe that all member states should be treated equally, both those with current deficits and those with surpluses. there is no reason to introduce preferential treatment, since the surpluses of some are the deficits of others. on the stability and growth package, we cannot accept an instrument whose only result is and will be austerity, austerity, austerity, that is to say, which will ultimately mean that the most vulnerable in our societies, and only they, will pay the price of the crisis. we wanted to achieve a balance, not by reducing budgetary discipline, but by adding investment discipline to it. our proposal was to make the objectives which europe has set itself in the europe 2020 strategy binding and equally binding, as binding as the budgetary or deficit standards. i regret that there has not been a majority in this parliament to support finally making this strategy a little more serious. we could have agreed to vote on this stability and growth package as it stands if it had been accompanied by an ambitious fiscal package, combining a financial transaction tax, an energy tax, a fair taxation of transnational companies and, of course, a fight against tax evasion, in such a way as to give the member states and the union the means to achieve their ambitions. there's not even a shadow of it, there's nothing. the pipeline is as empty as it is empty, despite what mr barroso has said today. i will say this to the right: you have chosen to make a narrow majority with the eurosceptics - it is your choice - in order to be able to make an economic governance which, i have already told you, is unfair and will be ineffective. so we are meeting you, either in this parliament when your deal with the eurosceptics has collapsed, or in the polls in france in 2012 and in germany in 2013, and i think the voters will agree with us.
mr president, it is now clear that monetary union requires budgetary union plus compliance with the rules. that is the lesson of the euro crisis. i think the package we agreed last wednesday is very balanced and therefore, commissioner, i have the honour to inform you that the belgian delegation in the ecr group will support this package. i do have some criticisms. i think that in general eurobonds are not the miracle solution. gideon rachman wrote yesterday in the financial times that you cannot cure alcohol poisoning with a bottle of vodka. i have had theological discussions with mrs goulard on this. we didn't get along, but i appreciate her as an opponent. i also think that the theory of economic imbalances is very vague and unclear. it is not that germany has a trade surplus because portugal has a trade deficit. this is really like an eu economics for dummies. that is why, mr president, the best text is before us. i will support it and i think that we and this parliament are called upon to deliver at this time and in this crisis period in the eurozone and i would like to do that.
mr president, two points: greece. we must not misrepresent history! it is a right-wing government which, for two terms, has been falsifying the figures with the help of goldman sachs. today, a left-wing government is trying to restore order, and it is the people who should pay for mistakes made on the boards of banking companies? secondly, in my country, belgium, thanks to a government with a socialist majority led by your colleague mr dehaene, we have reduced the debt from 130% to 80% of gross domestic product in 12 years. because of the mistakes of the banking world, fortis in particular, it was necessary to help the banks so that the system would not... (the president withdrew the speaker)
president. - mr president, i would like to begin by paying tribute to all those who have worked hard on the package in recent times, but i also join the previous speakers of my group. this package is insufficient and unbalanced for us. it is not so much a question of technical details as it is a question of the crucial questions: what is the emphasis? what should be the objectives of a more integrated economic policy? it is not that we do not want european economic governance, but we do want to define what that is, what the essence of european economic governance is. of course, it has been made clear during the crisis that monetary union also requires economic cooperation. there's some kind of dna construction error that's crept in, and we need to fix it. for us, it is much more than agreeing on savings and meeting budgetary targets. of course, mr langen and colleagues, we are in favour of sound public finances, but what is important to us is how we can all move forward, how we can get out of the quagmire. how can we prepare for the future and thus create growth and jobs through a common economic policy? that is to say, by integrating an ambitious investment strategy into the system, by linking it to the 2020 objectives, in other words, by agreeing together on how we will, for example, improve our education system, combat poverty and become more competitive and compete with third parties through investment in research and development. i am surprised that some people, like mr verhofstadt yesterday, are advocating an investment strategy and at the same time are satisfied with this package. i personally think that's inconsistent. the six-pack is therefore, in our view, a missed opportunity to set up a genuine economic governance.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a very deep crisis and we must not only ensure that we get out of it together, but also that we prevent ourselves from ever getting into it again. that is precisely why we need a strong legislative framework and precisely why we must also take our responsibility as co-legislators, as parliament. after all, we are the generation that decides the future of our children. the epp has the courage, mr president, to push through such a set of rules. we must now have the courage to decide what is necessary. we must also have the courage to choose to push those decisions through, to enforce them, even if it means going against the grain. we understand the people who are taking to the streets, and what we are doing is giving a structural response to the concerns of those people. good jobs, sustainable growth and room in the future for an adequate social policy. if we want to remain a relevant player in a globalised economy, we must ensure that there is more coordination between economic and budgetary policies, more coordination also between economic policies and the competitiveness policies of the member states. we need to invest in the economy, of course, but above all we need to ensure that no one can take the liberty of deviating from agreed rules, because then everyone else will be dragged into the same pit. the package which has finally emerged from the negotiations, ladies and gentlemen, gives a strong answer to these requirements and also to the mistakes of the past. the only thing we have to do - and this is inspired by past behaviour - is to strengthen the preventive arm of the stability pact, because if a member state goes down the wrong path, we cannot leave it to political bargaining in the council, which will ultimately be the reaction from europe. so i hope that we will vote well here tomorrow, that we will support the package, but at the same time that we will give ourselves the opportunity to enter into a final negotiation with the council to strengthen this point.
mr president, we must establish economic governance to get the european union out of this continuing crisis. we must coordinate our policies, be transparent in the management of our national budgets and, above all, reduce our deficits. but seriously, do you really think you're on the right track? the european right is about to simply scrap the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it does not want to implement taxation on financial transactions or eurobonds, and it has its eyes on the rating agencies that did not see the subprime crisis coming, that is to say, the trust that can be placed in them. let us be clear: we are in a crisis caused by neoliberalism and the blind trust that governments and europe have placed in deregulated markets. and how do we hear out of it? by reinforced neoliberalism and austerity. we need growth, we need to boost demand, and we're not going to do that by putting our fellow citizens on their knees. you're on the wrong track.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and mr rapporteur, it is clear that good european economic governance is necessary. but by voting for these six texts, we would leave no room for manoeuvre for the member states to pursue growth-promoting investment policies. at a time when citizens are losing confidence in the union, when greece is on its knees, when the rating agencies are dictating the law to the states, this parliament should cut short the dogma of austerity at all costs. today, in the face of a crisis of the neoliberal model, the union wants to respond with neoliberal revenue, systematic cuts in expenditure, especially social spending, which is recognised as a bulwark against economic crises. in fact, i do not see how we can accept these texts without the contributions desired by the progressive groups in this parliament. it would be schizophrenia, even though we have adopted resolutions on the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, and we are drawing up reports on implementation, as i am doing, on the platform for the fight against poverty. this proposed economic governance (the president withdrew)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. fukushima has sparked this debate, causing many to change their minds drastically. it is good that this subject is being dealt with with room for both supporters and opponents in parliament. but regardless of the point of view, the problem of waste is a reality and we must treat it as well and as safely as possible. i therefore welcome this report, which contributes to a more stringent and safer waste policy, treats each member state equally and points out the responsibilities of waste producers. i am a supporter of the polluter pays principle and we must not under any circumstances shirk our responsibilities. that is why i am also calling for a ban on the export of nuclear waste to third countries. this is not just an ethical issue, but above all a matter of safety and protection of people. we have no control over the waste policy in third countries. that is an unacceptable risk. we must treat our own waste ourselves and demand, through strict legislation and proposals, that this be done in the safest and most technically optimal way.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i simply want to say to martin, on behalf of my group, that we shall continue the fight for this important package and for the vote by parliament, including all the elements of the package. and we will continue these negotiations and continue this fight, so he can count on us. but, after this vote, i also now count on the constructive help of the socialists to win this battle.
the explanations of vote are closed.
in writing. in these times of economic and financial crisis, it is imperative to have leaders and officials who are cold-blooded and independent. jean-claude trichet, president of the european central bank, has managed during his term of office to free himself from the pressures of the heads of state and government. his successor will have to show the same qualities and the same intransigence. i voted in favour of the nomination of mario draghi of italy, who has an excellent reputation and made a good impression at the hearing of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i hope that his career, particularly as governor of the bank of italy, will enable him to cope with the many challenges that await him as head of the european central bank.
in writing. following the huge wave of redundancies by general motors belgium and four of its subcontractors in the motor vehicle sector last year, belgium requested assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund on 20 december 2010 for the retraining of the 2 834 workers made redundant. this european fund was set up to provide additional support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. i welcome the adoption today by parliament of this aid which will enable displaced workers to receive aid, particularly for job search and training. good news for the thousands of families affected !
in writing. - the former employees and the four suppliers of opel antwerp are still rightly angry at the way they were treated by gm. opel antwerp was a modern and high-performance car assembly company. nevertheless, gm has very arrogantly decided to cut 2,834 jobs. antwerp was not given a chance, despite many attempts to find a successor. belgium rightly requested support from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), which was set up to provide additional support to workers who are experiencing the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively. i am glad that the ep is explicitly saying today that there was a lack of willingness on the part of opec management to adapt to the challenges of the moment. the ep also rightly criticised the way in which the opel crisis was dealt with by the member states concerned. there was a lack of coordination of long-term measures to support this sector in the various national recovery plans. all this tastes very bitter.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the romanian mep adrian severin, and rightly so. after allegations of corruption against him following articles in the sunday times last march (remember the corruption case that shook the parliament...), the romanian national anti-corruption directorate brought charges against mr severin, on the basis of information that he had accepted an offer of payment of eur 100 000 from representatives of an alleged consultancy company, set up by the sunday times, in exchange for his support for a draft amendment to the directive on deposit guarantee schemes. something to follow.
in writing. − crossborder cooperation is essential in border regions. the euregio and the saarlorlux must therefore be strengthened. i therefore welcome the retention of crossborder cooperation as a priority of structural policy. in particular, the demands that at least 70% of the budget for territorial cooperation should be allocated to crossborder cooperation and that the funds for territorial cooperation should be increased from 2.5% in the current programming period to at least 7% of the total budget in the next programming period are very welcome. the creation of european associations for territorial cooperation must also be facilitated, as this new instrument will make it easier for local authorities and citizens to access enhanced cooperation, thus benefiting many regions, especially border regions. overall, this report is an important step towards securing the future of crossborder policy in the eu and allows the german-speaking community of belgium as a border region to further strengthen and improve its partnership with the border regions. in the area of cohesion policy, i am pleased that the committee has accepted my proposal to align structural funds used for transport more closely with the general eu orientation of transport policy. it can also help to speed up important projects in border areas.
in writing. − in order to learn from the mistakes of the economic and financial crisis and to counter the current debt crisis in some member states, greater coordination and monitoring of economic policies in the member states is essential. this report gives an opinion on the precise design of this new coordination and monitoring procedure. the debate on the large deficits of the länder should be better taken into account in belgium in particular, especially during this transitional period in which belgium has no government. this transitional period is highly problematic because of its strong impact on the belgian economy, social policy and the financial sector and does not contribute much to improving the situation. if a country like belgium wants to be sure that tomorrow europe will not be making decisions for belgium, then it would be time to ask federal policy makers today to assume their responsibility towards the citizens, rather than intervening in the commission to preserve the index or social policy in belgium.
in writing. - i voted with conviction in favour of the economic governance compromise package as we have negotiated with the council. the package which has emerged from the negotiations already provides a number of answers to the mistakes of the past, including in the field of budgetary discipline. that is certainly a major advance. however, my group and i have serious reservations on certain points, particularly as regards the implementation of the preventive part of the stability pact. in order to arrive at a comprehensive agreement before the summer recession, it is important to give the negotiations with the council in the coming weeks every chance and not to send political signals that could put a mortgage on a positive outcome. the package reflects a precarious political balance which i do not wish to jeopardize. that is why i did not vote for some of the amendments. but this should not mean that i would not support some of the elements of these amendments in their essence. i am thinking in particular of amendment no 9 which calls for convergence in the field of taxation. i can certainly support some of the elements of this, such as the financial transaction tax or the introduction of a consolidated eu corporate tax base.
in writing. - we are in turbulent times with the eu and the euro and we are counting on a quick and structural solution to the problems in greece. but anyone who looks beyond this will have to admit that europe will emerge from this crisis much stronger. the strengthening of eu surveillance of the economic and budgetary policies of the 27 member states is an essential condition for the survival of the euro. we must continue to ensure that the social fabric of europe emerges unscathed from this stormy period. respect for national traditions in the field of wage negotiations, which must be maintained at all costs. the main prize won by parliament is undoubtedly the inclusion of the european semester in this legislative package. because that means not only that governments will have to ensure sound finances, but that europe can also hold you accountable if you do not invest enough in education, in employment and in the fight against poverty. the economic strength and financial health of the eu will be dramatically enhanced by this package. but of course that cannot be an end in itself. they are instruments for achieving growth, employment and social prosperity.
in writing. the ep adopted its position on european economic governance today. the eu needs tougher european economic surveillance and the reform of the stability pact. but the short-sighted approach of the centre right does not provide a good basis for credible and coherent reform. the unilateral focus on austerity without seeking to increase eu revenue is not the basis for a sustainable fiscal policy. the poverty in the eu will only increase. fiscal consolidation must be linked to public investment and other collective spending if we are to create more jobs and avoid too much socioeconomic instability. you can't demand quality education and cut the budgets for it at the same time. that is why i voted against the wortmann-kool, feio and goulard reports. the greens, however, are in favour of a macroeconomic approach which would bring the trade balances of the various member states into greater balance. economic measures must be placed in a broader framework which also includes other elements such as solidarity and responsibility. that is why i supported the report on the macroeconomic pillar, where a comprehensive and systematic approach can prevent future crises. i therefore voted in favour of the reports by mr ferreira, mr haglund and mr ford.
in writing. today, parliament adopted the revised text of my colleague andré schwab's consumer rights directive. i welcome the adoption of this directive, which will strengthen the basis of common consumer protection rules, particularly as regards the sale of goods online. i also welcome the fact that the legislator has left member states the possibility of providing for more consumer-friendly measures in their respective national laws. however, like many consumer associations, i regret that options have been set up to allow member states to derogate from certain provisions of the directive for commercial or sectoral purposes.
in writing. a well-protected consumer is a secure citizen and a sign of the maturity of our modern democracies. this is where the directive adopted today is important. not a day goes by without the european consumer, when making a purchase online or accepting a modification to a telephone subscription contract, being confronted with a question about the conformity of the signed or approved contract. in response to the often unbalanced relationship between traders and consumers, the european parliament has negotiated essential rights, including: - a 14-day right of withdrawal, whether the purchase was made on the internet, by e-mail, by telephone or by a salesperson. - if the seller has not informed the buyer of the right of withdrawal, the purchased item may be returned up to one year after the date of purchase. - all deliveries must be made within 30 days. after this period, the buyer may withdraw without giving any reason. the vote comes after tough negotiations between parliament and the member states, and is a clear signal that the same rights should be exercised throughout the union.
in writing. the directive adopted today by a very large majority in the european parliament marks an important step towards better consumer protection in the european union. the new rules will considerably strengthen consumer rights, in particular with regard to information, delivery and termination of contracts. the right of withdrawal is extended to 14 days for all european citizens, which is a major step forward. but if there is one area where the directive is innovative, it is in the exercise of consumer rights in online commerce: the prohibition of pre-ticked boxes, complete information on the different costs are all consumer protection tools.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this report. the strengthening of nuclear safety and security rules was necessary for several reasons. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nuclear waste disposal system is not disrupted by the nuclear accident in japan, but also because the so-called 'highly active and long-lived' radioactive waste is still being stored on a temporary basis. spent fuel is usually stored safely near reactors, but it is clear that for permanent storage the level of safety should be much higher. so it is our responsibility to demand maximum security! that is why i also voted for the amendment to ban nuclear waste management facilities in seismic or coastal areas with a high risk of sea level rise and tsunamis. i also support the polluter pays principle and i also voted in favour of the amendment calling for cost assessment, monitoring, regular reporting to the european commission and the involvement of national parliaments.
in writing. it was important that the european parliament gave an opinion on the revision of the radioactive waste directive. it is a sign of responsibility and maturity to ignore differences on whether to maintain or abandon nuclear power and to reject an effective policy of disposing of nuclear waste. that is the first lesson of today's vote. clearly, nuclear safety is also about strengthening the rules on nuclear safety and security in the post-fukushima scenario. i particularly welcome the adoption of amendments nos 124 and 130 which call for a ban on nuclear waste management facilities in seismically hazardous or coastal areas and for the development of a safety briefing to accompany any radioactive waste management activity. it is to be hoped that the european energy ministers will hear this strong message in favour of a culture of safety. this necessarily requires that priority be given to deep-burial solutions, such as permanent dry rock storage or permanent storage in deep cavities (3 000 to 5 000 m deep), which are still being studied. and the use of transportation as the ultimate solution for highly radioactive waste.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on the cizelj report following a proposal from the european commission to lay down rules on the management of radioactive waste. - why? - why? i did not vote against because this outcome gives commissioner oettinger the opportunity to stick to his original proposal and to ban the export of radioactive material to third countries. this is against the wishes of a number of member states who would like to see the existing ban on such exports lifted. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. moreover, if the eu wants to use nuclear energy, it must manage its own nuclear waste. what some member states want is to border on european public crime. it is regrettable that the export of spent nuclear fuel to russia and ukraine for reprocessing is not prohibited. the european green group welcomes the fact that a majority of meps rejected further exports and approved a green amendment banning the storage of radioactive waste in seismic zones. but i could not vote for this report either because the rules proposed are far too weak.
in writing. the cap needed to be revised to better address the challenges of food security, climate change, sustainable management of natural resources, maintenance of the natural environment and maintaining a vibrant rural economy. the sector had to be made more competitive and the cap more equitable, green, cost-effective and efficient. it had to be formulated in a way that was understandable to all, not just farmers but also consumers and taxpayers. the report is moving in the right direction, doing everything possible to make agriculture a more dynamic and competitive sector, to be better able to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in addition, the report provides for adequate budgetary resources to be maintained after 2013, which is a victory in itself.
in writing. the common agricultural policy is the only genuine european policy. it has long been a shield against shortages and sectoral crises, but it is no longer the refuge for farmers and their families who are suffering the full effects of the volatility of commodity prices and global competition. i would like to see the continuing decline in farms in belgium and the dramatic fall in employment (down 56% in 30 years). the cap must therefore be reformed to meet the challenges of today's production and food security, environmental protection and renewable energy production. the report which was voted on this afternoon takes up, and this is good news, the broad lines laid down by the european commission in favour of a gradual reform based on a more balanced, more targeted aid system with a marked 'ecological' orientation. it is obvious that we must set up rules to regulate the market and help small farms, which have so far been the big losers in successive reforms. this is the only way to give young people hope, to motivate them to take over the family farms, to convince them that agriculture is simply a sector of the future.
in writing. − the future cap must guarantee access to healthy and locally produced food for all. i am in favour of family farms, of stable and fair prices for farmers and consumers, of a shift towards sustainable and social agriculture respecting the limits of our natural resources. i am voting for an end to dumping european surplus production on markets in the south because this market-disrupting practice is putting the knife to the local producers in the south. they cannot compete with the underpriced imports from europe. we need to shift livestock production to animal-friendly and ecological production, ending our dependence on imported soybeans for animal feed. that is why i voted for all the amendments limiting subsidies per person per company. that is why i voted in favour of the amendments which provide for a greening of subsidies. that is why i supported the amendments which favour organic 'low input' farming. that is why i supported the amendments which restrict the large concentration of power in the market in favour of agribusiness and retail. that is why i supported the amendments which favour small family farms and voted against the worst mass import of soya beans in europe. that's why i'm voting for food sovereignty.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 2.30 p.m.)
mr president, whenever the eu gets into difficulties its leaders start to blame so-called populists. mr barroso does that regularly and i hope he is listening to me. it is a sign that they are increasingly becoming estranged from reality. ordinary people are worried. they were told that the euro would bring about economic convergence, and the opposite is now happening. they are asking themselves what is going to happen to their savings and their pension, and what future there will be for their children in europe. are these people populists, mr barroso? should those accusing others of populism not rather look in the mirror, mr barroso? they were over-promising and under-delivering, mr barroso. they run into troubles of their own making yet blame others, as you did, mr barroso. i think it is time we started consolidating the achievements of european integration rather than building the tower of babel, mr barroso. there is nothing populist about that, is there mr barroso? on the contrary, it is populism to claim that eurobonds are the magical solution to our debts. how can we reduce debts by making more, mr barroso? the man in the street is becoming critical about europe. there is a majority of people out there, outside this chamber, asking fundamental questions to which the european union leadership has no reply. mr barroso, that explains your frustration.
mr president, mr prime minister, i am speaking to you specifically as a member of the committee on social affairs. progress has been made in various areas, particularly with regard to the roma, but unlike the previous presidency, which had advanced many social elements concerning the homeless, the minimum income or the fight against child poverty, your presidency leaves this semester with few social elements. you mentioned the priorities for growth, employment and the protection of the european social model. unfortunately, we will not hear from you this semester about your defence of this model in the negotiations on economic governance, the budgetary debates or in the recommendations to the member states. you have subscribed to the dominant idea on the right, that the only way to stimulate the economy is through budget cuts, particularly in social spending. a striking example is your decision to close the pikler institute, which has developed an internationally recognised teaching method from hungary, and which is helping to combat child poverty. there is no doubt that some of your social positions have been contrary to the commitments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we shall soon establish in a legally binding manner the conditions under which member states may restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. we are advocating a system of liability whereby the polluter pays for the damage caused by the deliberate introduction of gmos. member states may prohibit or restrict gmos on the basis of additional environmental motives, such as the prevention of pesticide resistance in weeds or pests, such as the preservation of local biodiversity, such as scientific uncertainty about the possible negative effects of gmos, such as the socio-economic impact and the excessive cost of coexistence of conventional organic and gmo agriculture. it is essentially a matter of protecting the autonomy of farmers and consumers, against the notion that anything is technically possible, against the belief that everything in this world is for sale. this report balances the debate on respect for the environment and the socioeconomic survival of farmers, and that is why i support the report by mrs lepage.
mr president, the debate on gmos must be based on irrefutable scientific and legal arguments. from a legal point of view, there was a need for a variety of arguments, as well as strong arguments, for member states wishing to restrict or prohibit gmos on their territory. the rapporteur has widened the range of room for manoeuvre for the member states, which is a good thing. i'll support his report. beyond this report, however, there is a lack of scientific basis, which must also be irrefutable. the council has repeatedly called into question the scientific assessments of efsa, which are always positive in relation to gmos, unlike national scientific assessments. to restore confidence, commissioner, we should not simply apply existing legislation, which is intended to provide a lot of scientific guarantees, particularly in terms of long-term impact assessment. why have the council recommendations of october 2008 remained a dead letter? (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. wherever you are in the european union, you can reach the emergency services by dialling 112, the single european emergency number. however, only 26% of eu citizens are able to spontaneously identify 112 as the emergency number in the eu. the commission and the member states should therefore step up their information campaigns to make the 112 emergency call number known to all union citizens and persons travelling there, and organise and support public promotion and awareness-raising activities. it is also essential to ensure that every segment of society has access to this service, including people with disabilities. there is a need to significantly improve the accuracy and reliability of caller location information. emergency response agencies need to ensure better coordination between themselves, both at national, cross-border and european level, in order to achieve the highest level of efficiency. it is also necessary to establish performance indicators for the quality of the 112 service, taking into account in particular the needs for accessibility, multilingualism and quality and timely interventions.
in writing. awareness and reliability are the two messages that the vote on the resolution on 112 - the european emergency number - sent this afternoon. first of all, make the 112 number known, which is free and accessible throughout europe. that's the biggest challenge. the task is immense when we consider that only 26% of europeans identify 112 as the number of emergency services in the union, with huge disparities between member states. and it is precisely these member states that can fill this gap through comprehensive and targeted campaigns of awareness, information and promotion. reliability, in particular with regard to the precise and automatic location of the caller. this is invaluable information to ensure the best possible response from first responders. everyone knows the urgent need for a reliable emergency number, both at home and abroad. much has been done, but much remains to be done to make 112 a reflex for every european citizen facing an emergency.
in writing. - the european parliament has today drawn clear lessons from the global credit crisis and the european debt crisis. it voted to ban uncovered credit default swaps (cds) on government bonds and to restrict naked short selling. credit default swaps insure bondholders against payment problems of governments and corporations. however, these derivatives are also bought by speculators who do not themselves own bonds. those who hold credit default swaps without an underlying interest benefit from panic in the financial markets. because when there is growing doubt about a country's ability to pay its debts, the cds increases in value. the wind trade in cds has not caused the debt crisis of greece and other euro countries, but has greatly exacerbated it. speculators are only allowed to buy greek cds if they also actually own greek government bonds. that makes it harder to bet on a greek bankruptcy. speculators in the financial markets profit too easily from this kind of perverse trade, while european taxpayers bleed. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has adopted the proposal to ban the holding of uncovered cds on government bonds. i hope that the council of ministers will be convinced of this in the forthcoming negotiations.
in writing. i welcome the vote on the corinne lepage report, which is before meps today for first reading, because it aims to provide legal certainty to member states wishing to restrict or ban gmos on their territory. the report gives them a wide range of arguments to justify their decision and goes further than the original proposal of the european commission, whose recent positions on gmos are well known. i asked commissioner dalli why the existing legislation on this subject - namely directive 2001/18/ec - which contains many legal and scientific safeguards, was still not being applied. why have the recommendations contained in the conclusions of the agriculture council of december 2008, inter alia in terms of strengthening scientific evaluations at community level, remained unfulfilled until now? i believe that the guarantee of an independent and irrefutable scientific evaluation is an essential precondition for the confidence of citizens and member states. overall, i really consider today's vote a victory for the citizens, because let's not forget that according to the last eurobarometer in october 2010, 61% of europeans are still opposed to gmo cultivation!
in writing. i congratulate corinne lepage on her report. she was able to determine specific conditions for the opt-out. the report has the merit of improving legal certainty and eliminating litigation. it does not alter the centralised authorisation procedure of efsa, but recognises the right of member states to carry out additional national assessments or to broaden the basis of their risk management measures. although it is not intended to determine whether europe should be for or against the cultivation of gmos, i would like to stress that we cannot oppose research and development of new technologies. i am therefore pleased to note that the report provides for the possibility of allocating the necessary financial resources for scientific research. the same is true of the union's credibility in r & d and the competitiveness of european companies in relation to the rest of the world (64 million hectares of gmos are planted in the united states, 21 million hectares of gmos in india and canada).
in writing. the european parliament, by adopting this afternoon the report by corinne lepage on measures to ban the cultivation of gmos in the national territory of the member states, has just corrected an error made by the european commission. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the production of foodstuffs. it must be said that gmos remain a divisive issue at eu level. with obvious consequences: the cultivation of genetically modified plants continues to decline in europe: -23% in 2010 compared to 2008. this is another reason to complete the eu's authorisation system for gmo cultivation. it should also be borne in mind that to restore citizens' confidence, it is crucial to set effective criteria that respond to their concerns about the environment. the aim is to address the concerns of farmers who have opted for conventional or organic farming in the face of the risk of contamination of their fields by genetically modified varieties.
in writing. - mr president, like my group, i voted against the amended lepage report. the debate on gmos in parliament is always emotionally charged. the debate we are having today should be a debate, not for or against gmos, but about whether we want to give member states more flexibility if they want to restrict or ban their use. the package adopted today is a step backwards because it is fragmenting the single market. environment and health are by definition problems that we should tackle together. environment and health do not stop at the borders of the member states. i therefore call for a strengthened european approach with a stronger role for the efsa. we must be careful that we do not introduce a de facto 'ban on gmos' by unnecessarily extending the criteria for banning or restricting gmos. i would argue for a case-by-case approach, i.e. that gmos are allowed if it is scientifically proven that the genetically modified substance is as safe as the non-modified food. the research on gmos must also be continued, but it must be done in a scientifically responsible way, not on the basis of political dogmas.
in writing. freedom, democracy, equality, non-discrimination and respect for fundamental rights are core values for the european union. each member state of the union must ensure that these fundamental rights are respected, protected and promoted. while we denounce the violation of civil liberties and democratic control, and discrimination, including on the basis of sexual orientation, when these rights are not respected outside the union, we must also express our concern when these same rights are threatened within the union itself. while it is true that the adoption of a new constitution falls within national competence, it is nevertheless the duty of all member states, present and future, to respect the values of the european union, the european charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights in letter and spirit. the european commission must uphold these values and ensure that european citizens have the assurance that our values are indeed at the heart of our legislation.
in writing. i agree with the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. i think this is an issue that should not be politicized, so there should be no left-right split on this issue! we must prevent global warming of 2 degrees. however, the current crisis situation is also a real obstacle to the environmental progress announced before the economic crisis. and while i wish for this ambitious goal to be achieved, for the sake of the planet and future generations, i have doubts about its feasibility, although i hope i am wrong.
in writing. i unfortunately had to vote against the eickout report, which was considerably watered down by the plenary session this afternoon and the adoption of epp amendments falling short of the so-called "3x20" targets of the energy/climate package adopted in 2008. these are objectives that are not only aimed at combating climate change and protecting the health of future generations, but also at facilitating investment in innovation and future technologies. this vote is all the more regrettable because it goes against the choice of a part of european industry, which has already made the bet on a low-carbon society. in addition, the number of jobs in eco-industries is very encouraging: 3.4 million people currently, a figure that would be "boosted" with the eu's climate target being raised to 30%. the estimated creation of 6 million additional jobs in europe is also worth mentioning. the commission and the member states must not therefore turn their backs on their ambitious climate change objectives, or fall behind certain us states and china, which are surely converting to green technologies.
in writing. - this report sets out the precise points for the future: crossborder work and initiatives are among the most important engines of european integration. the control of expenditure and the european added value in practice must be strengthened. this also means that the co-financing of the länder and regions must be fully clarified in advance of the applications. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assist the member states in the implementation of the community's environmental policy.
in writing. the goerens report, which i voted for today, deals with the impact of budget support, the consistency of the eligibility criteria and the accompanying measures to strengthen the political dialogue between the european union and developing countries. the report highlights, on the basis of an assessment of global budget support in seven developing countries, that budget support can be an effective means of facilitating developing countries' strategies to eradicate poverty while enhancing the ownership and accountability of their governments, particularly in the management of their public finances. the report notes, however, that the commission's control mechanisms for the beneficiary countries need to be strengthened. this is why there is a need to involve parliaments and civil society more in the dialogue on poverty reduction policies and annual budget support reviews. finally, i took the opportunity to stress once again the need for coherence in development policies and to reiterate my wish that the cfsp should focus on the promotion of democracy and human rights, which are key conditions for sustainable development.
in writing. i am in favour of budget support because it increases the resources of the recipient state to implement its own budget according to its own procedures and, above all, according to its own policy choices. budget support strengthens governance by providing for debate and dialogue upstream, at the level of the state and its regulatory functions in particular. it increases the coherence of the national budget and, above all, it makes the states responsible for the priorities and results it sets. it allows each country to take full ownership of its own development. under the 10th edf, budget support rose from 25% to almost 50% of the aid allocated to the acp over five years. i would remind those who are wary of this type of aid that budget support cannot be implemented in all countries and in all circumstances. the eligibility criteria are specific and are assessed before the finalisation of a budget support programme, during its implementation and, above all, before each disbursement. a rapid alert system has been put in place to identify any slippage. in the event of abuse or fraud, the state must reimburse the sums which have been the subject of irregularities.
in writing. - budget support is an appropriate instrument for development cooperation, but it also has pitfalls. for example, beneficiary countries must have adequate own contributions in the areas of poverty reduction, macroeconomic management, public financial management and governance before they can receive budget support. in reality, there are huge differences between the recipient countries. budget support must be linked to a strong political dialogue. the leading role of the national parliaments of the recipient countries, civil society organisations and local government bodies is crucial. they are best placed to define the priority sectors, prepare the country strategy papers and monitor the budget allocations. in order to strengthen parliamentary control, national parliaments should consult with civil society organisations. the report calls for a system of information exchange between civil society and public opinion with a view to the follow-up of budget support. budget support, like programmed aid, should be seen as a transitional instrument and should not prejudice efforts to improve the ability of countries to raise their own resources, such as taxes, to break the dependence on donations from third countries. budget support may even be reduced in certain cases (emerging or oil and mineral rich countries).
in writing. − social services of general interest are essential social and economic pillars of our societies and provide a necessary counterbalance to an overly narrow economic interpretation of the internal market. they are the expression of a social europe because they promote social cohesion and guarantee social inclusion. to be clear, social services are not just for the most deprived but for all eu citizens. the lack of a clear legal framework leaves the court of justice with every latitude to interpret these services of general interest through case law. it's a very bad evolution. europe does not want legislation at the moment, whereas it is necessary to look for the means to finance these services adequately and to find guarantees for the employment they generate. the report by the proinsias de rossa rightly denounces these elements and that is why i supported it. yet it opens the door to private-public partnerships and privatization of these services. unjustly, because the liberalization of telecommunications, post, rail, etc. has not led to better services at an affordable price. - no, it's the opposite. that is why i fully supported the alternative resolution by the greens, which calls for separate legislation for these social services and thus puts a real social europe at the forefront.
in writing. official development assistance is necessary and cannot be reduced under any circumstances. there is no reason why we should not honour our commitments to allocate 0.7% of gdp to oda. however, the quality of the implementation, management and use of official development assistance needs to be improved in order to maximise its impact on growth and poverty reduction. official development assistance amounts to over 120 billion dollars. doing more and doing better goes beyond an increase in resources. i am in favour of 'more' general or sectoral budget support and fewer projects when macroeconomic and governance criteria allow it. when a country is eligible for 30% budget support, why should it not be eligible for 90%? it is necessary to recognize that, beyond the fragmentation and proliferation of actors, the international community faces a new challenge: the transformation of aid. we must realize that there are other types of relations, other ways of doing things and other ways of acting, which must now be taken into account, besides paris and accra. the response to these changes can only be inclusive and political.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, at the beginning of his mandate mr barroso promised to put on the table a bold multiannual financial framework based on a system of own resources. that is also the reason, if you remember, that in 2009 that we supported his appointment, and he kept his word. it is very important that, for the first time in the last two decades, we have a consistent radical change in the budget, in which we are going back to the initial idea in the treaty of rome, which is to base the budget of the european union on own resources. the second positive thing is that you also backed, as did the polish presidency, the idea of a european conference on the financing of the union. that is an old idea of mr lamassoure’s. one year ago in 2010 – you remember, mr lamassoure – the idea was impossible. today, if i heard the polish presidency correctly, it is becoming reality. it is also a very good thing that the european parliament and the national parliaments will be involved. the most important thing is to do it. the main task is before us. we have a good proposal from the commission. we have a presidency that is willing to start a real debate on this, also involving the national parliaments. now we have to face the biggest challenge, namely to convince public opinion that some of the arguments that are used against this proposal are completely wrong. own resources do not mean more taxation for the citizens, on the contrary. citizens will pay exactly the same. the only thing that is changing is that there will be a direct link between the citizen and the european union so that the citizen can directly control the european union. that is, in fact, a democratic advantage that we create with a system of own resources. it is not one penny or one pound more than they are paying but they have direct control over european expenditure. the second thing we have to explain is that, by making cuts to the european budget, you do not solve the problem of fiscal consolidation of the member states because the total deficit of all member states in the european union today is eur 800 billion. for example, if you cut the budget of the european union by eur 4 billion, because you say that you are blocking the increase in nominal terms, there is no increase in the union’s financial resources. what you do is gain eur 4 billion. so you are lowering the eur 800 billion fiscal deficit to eur 796 billion. but what the governments that are defending this do not say is that they will increase their expenditure on a number of issues. it is european cooperation that can gain money for the national member states. take the diplomatic service, for example: we have 93 000 diplomats in europe and in the us there are 25 000. take defence, for example: we have two million soldiers in europe and there are 1.4 million soldiers in the us. take monetary policy: there are 25 000 staff in europe and 11 000 in the federal reserve board in the us. this is, in fact, what is to be gained from a bold european budget. it can gain and it can cut money in the different member states of the european union. we have an enormous amount of work to do to convince public opinion because some nation states have used wrong arguments against this proposal. i think we have to fully back the commission proposal. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, mr verhofstadt is actually the only liberal leader i know who is so energetically in favour of taxation. i just wonder whether he will be able to convince the general public to spend more on the european union when all european citizens have to cut their budgets.
mr president, this is a typical example of the bad arguments people make. there is no real increase in the budget. if we have no deal with the council and we have to apply the interinstitutional agreement, we come to exactly the same figures as we have here. there is no increase in expenditure in this proposal. instead of the citizen giving money to the nation states and the nation states bargaining over this money with the european union, there will be a direct link between the citizens and the european union. i do not understand why a democratic group like the ecr is against citizens gaining more democratic power and having a direct say in the european union. are you democrats or what are you in fact? (applause)
mr president, i have here the french government’s reaction to the commission proposal. despite what you have said, the reaction to the commission proposal is positive. they are saying that what is presented by the commission on own resources can be the topic of a discussion, provided that these new own resources can also lower the nations states’ national contributions. contrary to what you are saying here, the french government has reacted positively to this completely radical change to the budget. i think the time is right for you to tell the truth to your own people. you do not want to give power to your citizens. what you want is to continue a system of national contributions where it is either the heads of state or the heads of government who are discussing the net payment positions among themselves. that is what is happening today.
mr president, the multiannual framework focuses on about 1% of eu gdi, but the commission puts some funds, like the european globalisation fund, outside the budget. this is wrong, as you have always claimed, with regard to the european development fund being outside the eu budget. now the commission is doing the same thing again. the overall budget should be pinned down at 1% of eu gdi. that is fair, reasonable and realistic. concerning the revenue side of the budget, mr lewandowski, we have a non-starter unfortunately: the introduction of increased european taxation simply will not fly. i know the countries that will be against it. unfortunately, mr verhofstadt is now conspicuously absent, and so are the british liberals and the german liberals. they are all in the governments that are against this. and they are still in the governments, mr schulz. mr verhofstadt, although he ran away and is now absent, talked about democratic rights originating from taxation. well belgium has the highest taxation level in the european union and i do not have the impression that citizens in belgium feel democratically empowered by this. on the contrary, they vote against it. mr lewandowski, you have to do your homework again. mr barroso, i would thank you for listening this time.
president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, the commission has indeed kept its word and as rapporteur for own resources in this parliament i am very pleased that it has also done so with regard to the promise to revise the system of own resources. it has proposed a new basic decision on own resources, which goes back to what has always been the basic principle in the treaty, namely that the budget must be financed entirely from own resources. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget, but it is still in the process of being drawn up. the commission proposal returns to 60% own resources. at the same time, the financing system is being drastically simplified and made more transparent. the proposed own resources - which is very important - will strengthen european policies, and in particular the functioning of the internal market. it is important to reiterate, however, as the commission and parliament have always said, that own resources are not intended to inflate the budget. the aim is to have a correct financing which emphasizes the european dimension of the budget, also in the way the funds are collected. and since these own resources also make it possible to reduce the contributions of the states, they are also a way of contributing to their budgets. the fact that the commission has put its proposals into a draft decision and a motion for a resolution means that the council cannot ignore them. we are counting on the fact that, as the presidency has promised, this will be discussed in depth with parliament and that the idea of doing this with the national parliaments will also be followed up. it must also remain a whole proposal, bound to a multiannual budget and it must not be picked apart. it 's all one . the commission has said 'three proposals, one decision' and that is how it must remain.
mr president, after three years of controversial, sometimes even heated, debate, this regulation on food labelling is finally ready to go. a compromise, to be sure, but one which i would call balanced and in which i would emphasize the mention, this extended mention of the country of origin which responds to a strong demand from citizens: to know the geographical origin of the product, and to be able, where appropriate, to favour local products. the very clear emphasis on allergens, and then this study on the harmfulness of aspartame requested from efsa and announced by the commissioner. on the other hand, trans fats, including the industrial hydrogenated fats in pizzas, pastries and other fried foods, are being given a reprieve which i cannot understand, given the damage they cause. the commission would therefore be well advised to shorten the three-year period currently provided for and go beyond a simple labelling statement. that is the price of ambition, i think, if it wants to give a new, stronger dimension to this fight against obesity, this scourge that 400 000 new people suffer from every year in europe.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). it is a major step forward that the obligation to provide nutritional information now applies to all foods and not just those with a health claim. the fact that this information should be given in figures and letters and in relation to standard quantities is the right choice. the traffic light alternative was fun, but far from effective. fortunately, the craft sector is exempted from these obligations, otherwise their high-quality products would often be doomed. i am grateful to all my colleagues for supporting me in preserving the existing language arrangements. it is essential, because what is the consumer's right to information if he does not receive it in a language he understands? finally, i would like to emphasize once again the difference in purpose between the indication of the designation of origin on the one hand and the obligation to trace it on the other. with that difference in mind, i have no problem with the fact that the compulsory indication of the designation of origin of ingredients in a composite product is provisionally off the legislative table and that its usefulness in all respects will first be thoroughly examined.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, more than in others, the principle of 'the best is the enemy of the good' and 'too much information kills information' is obviously relevant. so it wasn't easy; so we had to do better. we can be glad that the origin of a whole series of additional meats has been indicated. i would also like to thank glenis willmott for having really fought for this and i would also like to thank mrs sommer for having incorporated this element. the agreement we are going to ratify tomorrow is certainly a step forward, since the obligation to indicate the country of origin, which has hitherto been reserved for beef, honey, olive oil, fresh fruit and vegetables, has been extended to fresh pigmeat, sheepmeat, goatmeat and poultrymeat. it may be necessary to extend it to other foods. the compromise will not, of course, fully satisfy all consumers, but i realise how difficult it has been to get to this point, and i call on the commission to propose supplementary legislation on this matter as soon as possible, without necessarily carrying out the costly studies which you are recommended to undertake. i'm going to use an example to draw a conclusion: it's no use to define the portion. we're not asked to do that anymore. it is either 100 grams or 100 millilitres or the unit, if the packages are in equal units; as for the concept of a portion, it is completely theoretical and must remain so.
in writing. the least we can say is that the negotiations with the council have been long, hectic and the devil in the details! but the adoption of this regulation will now make it possible to inform the consumer without forcing him to make a choice. in this respect, i am pleased that the idea of a 'colour code' has not gone beyond the first reading. that would have been a misleading shortcut for the consumer. readable labelling has always been my priority. the consumer does not have to be an agricultural engineer to decipher labels! but remember that the responsibility for a healthy and balanced diet lies not only with the consumer and the information given to him. the sommer report is necessary but not sufficient. the awareness campaigns to improve food practices must continue! i am therefore awaiting the impact studies that the commission has promised on trans fats, allergens and the extension of the indication of the country of origin to all meat, because there are still many expectations! finally, i would like to deplore the fact that, in terms of visibility, the nutrition label is not provided for on the front of the products.
in writing. it is crucial that consumers are informed in a fair, objective and transparent way about the food they consume. although everyone believes that this is the main objective of this regulation, there was a lot of disagreement and a lot of lobbying by industry. there have been steps in the right direction, but there have also been missed opportunities. the clear indication of allergens, the display of palm oil and an extension of the origin labelling, although not sufficiently extensive, are good. what is missing is the mandatory indication of the five main ingredients (salt, sugar, fat, saturated fat and energy content) per 100 grams or 100 ml on the front of the packaging, as well as a ban on, or at least a mandatory indication of, saturated fats. i hope, therefore, that the commission's study will produce the results needed by consumers within three years. we also expect the commission to make objective and effective proposals on other subjects, such as the problem of non-stunning slaughter, the labelling of alcohol and the extension of the labels of origin. finally, industry must apply this regulation strictly and must be monitored by appropriate control and penalties.
madam president, commissioner, i understand what you are saying, but it must be admitted that in every incident involving a flight delay or cancellation, even for supposedly exceptional reasons, airlines try by all means to avoid taking passengers and paying them the compensation provided for in the regulation. a recent judgment of the court of justice of the european union has once again clarified that the concept of 'exceptional circumstances' is in fact very restrictive and that, in most cases, airlines are obliged to compensate passengers. i hear you talking about impact studies. this is the second time that i have denounced the trend towards very expensive studies, which we do not always know if they will be successful. do you not think, commissioner, that the main problem is the total lack of information, the crucial lack of information for consumers about the extent of their rights and about the complaint procedures, which are quite complicated, it must be said.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank inés for all her work over three long years and all the shadow rapporteurs who contributed to the result. commissioner, i read your tweet today and it contained good news. it showed that in 2010, there were 11% fewer deaths on our roads, and that we are well on our way to halving the number of deaths by 2020. the directive now on the table can only do a very small part in this and we must therefore accept it with conviction. the council has long been debating the legal basis of this directive. we lost a lot of time there. i would like to avoid wasting a lot of time in this house on the debate on correlation tables. this is an important discussion in itself, but i don't think we should link it to this case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the s&d group, i therefore said that the feeling of impunity must disappear and that this directive would help to do so. is the result perfect? no, of course not. it is a first step, the organization of the exchange between member states of the identity of drivers who commit an offence abroad. in future, therefore, offenders will be sent home with fines and reminders, and in this way they will be encouraged to follow the rules. we would naturally have liked to see the member states commit themselves to also taking the lead in prosecuting their citizens who commit offences elsewhere, but we may not take further steps on this subject for a number of years. that's the revision clause. in short, we have to support this, we have worked hard on this. it's a small step, but it's a very important one.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her contributions and her work, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, the council, the belgian and hungarian governments and the current presidency, although the council has not played the most glorious role in this dossier, because the result has been below our expectations. it's a very sensitive case. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was more than natural for us to remove the technical obstacles which still existed, such as the fact that radar equipment is used in one country and not recognised in another. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we were wrong, we are one step ahead, a small step and we will support that , but we had hoped that we could take the bigger hurdle. we were wrong because right now we're just exchanging information. and what has just been suggested i would rather discuss in a debate in committee than here in the house. i would like to say one more thing on this subject: i hope that tomorrow we will really find a majority that will give the council a clear signal on the correlation table. if tomorrow a majority does not accept the correlation table in this area, it will not be a closed issue for this parliament. the council must take these matters more seriously. and if there is no correlation table, it always suggests that the council is not taking the issue seriously. the council's members, please tell your colleagues that such methods of blocking good dossiers via the correlation table must not be taught in future. i hope we can get a majority tomorrow. i will continue to plead in the epp that we do not support the alde amendment tomorrow, but i hope that this is not a wrong signal to the council and that it will not be misunderstood.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, unusually i have plenty of time today, but i shall try to be as short as possible. first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de grandes pascual, for this exhaustive and balanced report. the threat to civil aviation is real. we were reminded last october that some people are still seeking to target aviation and we were reminded that we are vulnerable. with regard to security scanners, the parliament resolution of october 2008 asked the commission to analyse the impact of security scanners on fundamental rights and health aspects. a basis for discussion with parliament and council, addressing some essential issues concerning the use of security scanners at eu airports, was provided by the communication of 15 june 2010. the commission has since continued to assess all aspects and is now ready to come forward with a legislative proposal on security scanners. on the basis of the de grandes pascual report, we can now move forward quickly: some airports are keen to start using scanners to improve our security. this will allow member states and airports to use security scanners at eu airports. it will also lay down strict operational and detection performance criteria. today, security scanners are a valid alternative to existing screening methods, in particular at large airports with major passenger flows. what is more, current technology allows full respect of fundamental rights and health concerns. further, scanners have good detection performance, as both metallic and non-metallic items can be detected. moreover, experience shows that they are increasingly accepted by passengers and staff as a convenient method of screening. at this stage, however, to safeguard the health and safety of passengers and staff, only security scanners that do not use ionising radiation should be allowed. the commission has therefore asked its scientific committee on emerging and newly identified health risks to assess the effects of security scanners that use ionising radiation on human health. the commission has also proposed for passengers to be given the possibility of opting out from a security scan and of undergoing alternative screening methods. we are convinced that a common eu approach addresses the current fragmented situation while ensuring both the highest level of security and the best possible protection for fundamental rights and health. with regard to liquids, the deadline of 29 april 2011 was intended to be set for the first step towards abolishing the restrictions on liquids on board aircraft. however, this step proved impossible to implement for several reasons. the commission therefore decided to remove this obligation and to instead focus on 29 april 2013. this is the legal deadline on which all restrictions on liquids must be lifted. however, airports can start the screening of liquids before that date, and are encouraged to do so. in this context you also wanted the commission to make a statement on liquids. let me assure you that the commission is fully committed to ensuring that the 2013 deadline is met. therefore, a working group consisting of member states, the aviation industry and international partners will be set up and will start work right after the summer. this group will agree on concrete steps to be taken in the coming year and will coordinate implementation, including operational trials at airports. international cooperation, in particular with the united states, is essential to prevent a similar situation in 2013. the 2013 deadline has also been endorsed by most of the 60 icao states applying liquid restrictions. on 22 june 2011, the eu and the us signed a joint statement, agreeing to closely work together towards the 2013 deadline. the joint statement demonstrates our common acknowledgement and acceptance of the 2013 deadline, and includes an agreement to exchange information on operational trials and on planned regulatory requirements. let me now go back to the de grandes pascual report and turn to cargo. last december, the council endorsed the high-level working group report and action plan on strengthening air cargo security. this was a direct response to the october incident involving explosive devices concealed in air cargo consignments from yemen. i welcome parliament’s support to this work, as expressed in the de grandes pascual report. as regards progress on implementing the action plan, the commission is developing a common eu risk assessment for cargo security, with input from interior ministries and the intelligence services. and we are working within icao to set global standards and coordinate capacity-building activities in third countries. this is on-going work and we should continue to give it the necessary priority. unfortunately, i am as yet unable to report on a successful conclusion to the new rule-making for cargo. at the meeting of experts in the regulatory committee on 8 june 2011, member state delegates failed to give sufficient support to the commission proposal, due to a large number of abstentions, which came as a big surprise. at the transport council in june, i asked ministers to ensure that improved rules on cargo can be adopted as soon as possible. i am hopeful that this will be possible. the commission is therefore resubmitting the proposals to the regulatory committee this week. it is important that the eu takes action to close a clear security gap for air cargo arriving from third countries. i would like to thank parliament for its attention to the various components of this file. your careful scrutiny has led to better legislation and therefore better protection of citizens.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not air safety has been a subject of debate in parliament for some time. we have already failed, strangely enough, in the council some time ago to discuss who should pay for this security. everybody's in it, but nobody wants to pay for it. we have seen this in some cases in the last few weeks and months. the regulations on liquids were known. the deadline was also known. and thirdly, we also had clear statements about what was technically possible and what was not. but it was decided at the last minute that this scanning would not be introduced for so-called security reasons, although we are convinced and remain convinced that it was purely financial reasons. i would therefore like to say again on behalf of our group that the way in which the commission has dealt with this problem at the last minute should be and remains an isolated case. it cannot be tolerated in the future that this is solved unilaterally in this way. and secondly, when we address the issue in advance, we must address it correctly. that is why i believe that three principles are important for the future. first, no more last minute decisions. secondly, a review as early as 2012, because we want to know what is possible. thirdly, what happens to this opt-out clause for security reasons? because this clause will always give any country the option of withdrawing when it comes to security. as for the body scan, my dear colleague leichtfried, i would say that it does not have to be too complicated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we want to protect the public health and respect the privacy. we don't want to make it mandatory. if you don't want to use it, you don't have to. but if something happens tomorrow, we will be saying again in this house: why were the controls not better? so let's find a balance between good technology and better controls. this is true for the future, and not just at european level, but also in the international context. for what good is it to introduce good control technologies here if they are not accepted on other continents?
president, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr de grandes pacual, for his work, for the good result and the good cooperation. i can be relatively brief about his report. we support the report as a group. we're not excited about this technology, or we don't think this is the miracle cure that will provide 100% safety, but it does exist, the body scanner. it is appropriate that we lay down the rules of the game and the preconditions at european level. that's what we did in a good way. one thing . it's really essential that the security officers only see standard figures on their screens. this should also be made very clear in the regulation currently being prepared. on the subject of liquids, i would like to join my colleagues brian simpson and mathieu grosch in expressing my displeasure at the way this matter has been handled and the way in which the council in particular has violated the agreement we have drawn up together. this way of working undermines confidence in the agreements we make among ourselves. it is not the first time that there have been problems between the council and parliament, but when a deal is made, it must be respected. we are now asking for a concrete commitment, first of all from the council, that the new agreements currently being prepared will be agreed and implemented. i am pleased to hear from the commissioner that the talks with the united states are moving in the right direction, that they too are working towards that 2013 deadline. that's what's important. i am also glad that this working party is being set up because it will guide the whole process and we will arrive at results in a more organised way.
mr president, i thank my colleague, mrs stassen, for giving me the opportunity to put this question to her. mrs stassen, you say that quotas are useless. i would like to tell you not a story by andersen, but a story that happened in norway, where a mr ansgar gabrielsen, who was a minister in his country in 2003, decided, as the proportion of women in senior positions in private companies was only 8 to 9%, to introduce quotas. he was very criticized; he was also told that it was useless. well, and i would like to ask you if you know the representation rate of women in positions of responsibility in norway today.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report is the result of long debate and deep reflection in the committee on women's rights and gender equality of this parliament. i am very proud of the work we have done on this subject and i believe that this report is an important step forward in european thinking on the role of women in business management. first of all, i can only welcome the general position of the femm committee on these quotas. it is, as i have often said, a necessary evil which will enable society to move forward. but far more than this ideological question of quotas, the report covers a whole series of elements designed to promote the presence of women at the top of companies, such as the opening of a dialogue with them or the development of training on gender equality. these quotas cannot be imposed in an authoritarian manner. we must change the mindset if we are to make this policy sustainable. finally, the report recommends measures to improve the balance between work and private life, which will benefit both men and women. i stress this point, because it is a question of changing the culture of companies in the direction of a better balance for all. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, and also commissioner reding, who has been very helpful. i remember in particular a very good, very voluntary article which she recently co-signed with president jerzy buzek and which appeared in the press across the atlantic. i think we should say hello. let's make sure that together we can finally break the glass ceiling.
mr president, i believe that in everyday life, whether it be professional, social or economic, there is discrimination. we must try to fight discrimination. but, of course, there are sometimes positive discrimination, which is adopted precisely to combat discrimination. when i say that quotas are a necessary evil, it is because i think that society is not moving fast enough in the right direction and that it may have to be forced, at some point, to move towards something better. and here, in the debate we are having today - and i will stop because time has run out - i say that quotas are a necessary evil; so we have to go through this to make society move faster.
mr president, mrs sinclaire, this is not a question, it is a clarification which i believe is historic. first of all, the first female president in the world was mrs vigdís finnbogadóttir of iceland, and the first female prime minister was not mrs thatcher, but i am hesitating between mrs gandhi of india or mrs golda meir of israel. i just wanted to make that clear.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think it is an understatement when we say that the polish presidency comes at a crucial moment for europe. i think this has already been said three or four times this morning. we normally always say it. every six months we say that it comes at a crucial moment, but this time i think it is true to say that. there is a crisis in greece and a crisis for the euro, as well as a disintegration through the reintroduction of border controls in a number of member states. more generally, i think that the crisis in europe is more the revival of nationalism and of populism which we see in a number of member states – even in member states in the north of europe who thought in the past that it was impossible for them to be attacked by this kind of nationalism and populism. i would like to congratulate mr tusk because we have heard this morning from one of the only political leaders in europe who is not going in the direction of nationalism and populism, as most of his colleagues for the moment are doing. he knows that, in order to really solve our problems, we need not less integration in europe but more integration in europe. i think that is also the tradition of bronislaw geremek, a great polish political leader. i also think, mr tusk, that this is partly a consequence of the fact that you are a historian. we are all lawyers and economists here – i do not know what we all are, but i do not think that there many historians. maybe it is because you are a historian and because you know about what happened in the past that you have such a message for us. let us face the reality: without the european union, this continent is a continent of disputes, war and even of genocide. that was the past. you as a historian can remind us of that. let us face the reality today. that is in fact the big issue for your presidency. we are at a crossroads. either we are becoming the un of europe or we are becoming the us of europe. either we are becoming a loose confederation – as the eurosceptics want – with once again nation states in the driving seat and without any real european integration, coordination and solidarity, or we really do become this federation and this political and economic union that we absolutely need in order to create wealth for our citizens and to create peace and stability in this difficult, multipolar world. that is the choice we are facing today, the real choice. i know some people are afraid of a united states, but that is the real choice to be made. either we go in the direction of political and economic union and we can solve our problems relating to the euro, greece, portugal and ireland and so on and we do not disintegrate; or we say that we want to be the un of europe, a loose confederation where from time to time we make speeches about solidarity but in reality do not show this solidarity and this union. on the substance i think you have to have three priorities, and i do not think that you can escape them. first, regarding the greek crisis, you have to find a solution for the discussion on economic governance. i am very sure that you can explain to the heads of state and government, your colleagues, that they have to make a move in the next days and weeks because you believe in the position of the parliament. secondly, we are very pleased that you support the idea of this parliament launching a conference on the future financing of europe because i think that is the best way forward. bring the national parliaments into the debate and i am very sure that in the end they can agree on commission proposals that have been launched. finally, regarding schengen, i do not think we should agree with every colleague in the european union who says that these are exceptional circumstances and that we should go back to national borders and national border controls. together with the commission say ‘no’ to the attempts to reinstate these national border controls inside the union. mr tusk, you are not from our group – we all thought that a civic platform by its nature has to be, but that is a little detail – but i can tell you that we will be your best allies in your fight for more europe. (applause)
the polish presidency, mr president, may not come at a historic moment, but it does come at a remarkable moment for the european union. the greek debacle, the portuguese debacle, all these conditions are finally putting us face to face with the facts. the facts are that the european citizens have been brazenly and shamelessly lied to for many, many years. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. that is vindictive. it is particularly vindictive because, as always, it is not the real culprits who are to pay the price, but first and foremost all european taxpayers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we were also lied to about the conditions of accession for bulgaria and romania, we were lied to about the consequences of schengen, we were lied to about the total lack of effective protection of our external borders and today we are being shamelessly deceived very actively about the negotiations with turkey. now, once again, a so-called columbus egg is being proposed, a plan to dump massive euro loans on the market as if those loans were not to be repaid by the same taxpayers. they're going to solve public debt by mismanagement with even more public debt! it should not surprise anyone that more and more people are turning away from this official europe, feeling scorned and betrayed.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this report parliament is making bold and innovative policy choices. in times of economic turbulence, euro-pessimism and anti-eurorealist voices, politics must dare to go against the tide. the policy options supported today by a large majority of meps are not the music of the future. they are the result of a year of intense deliberation and negotiation. a clear majority of parliament has been won in favour of the creation of a european energy community. that is one of the most important points in my view. europe must itself work towards a truly european energy policy. specifically: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. this must be the eu's core business, because it is the only way to meet climate objectives and to turn our fragile position as a major energy importer into maximum self-sufficiency. and also super important: the development of a european ministry of finance. the draft is on the table and it already has broad support in parliament. and the issuing of eurobonds. in short: the commission has already taken a number of concrete steps to strengthen europe's ability to emerge from the current financial crisis and to ensure the prosperity of europeans.
in writing. this list should, on the one hand, allow border control authorities to verify whether a specific travel document is recognised for the purpose of crossing the external borders in accordance with the schengen borders code and, on the other hand, allow consular authorities to ensure that member states recognise a given work document for the purpose of affixing a visa. a mechanism will need to be put in place to oblige member states to take a position on the recognition or non-recognition of documents. in order to ensure good information for the public and member states and to make the system effective, a continuously updated electronic publication of the list of travel documents should be established. this list of documents should provide added value in terms of border control security and legal certainty as regards the list of travel documents.
in writing. the right to the protection of personal data is recognised by the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in early november 2010, the european commission published its 'comprehensive data protection strategy for the european union' with a view to revising the data protection directive. the european parliament, which wishes to take part in this debate and influence the revision of the data protection directive, has drawn up a report. this document, which was voted almost unanimously in the libe committee, reflects my concerns. i believe that citizens should be able to control their information, have access to their data, change it and delete it. these are, in my view, fundamental rights that must be guaranteed in our digital society. the right to be forgotten must exist for every citizen.
in writing. in the digital age, technology allows us to create, store, and send vast amounts of data. stopping this technological revolution is illusory. the risk of a breach of data protection provisions is therefore real and can pose serious risks to the fundamental rights of individuals. first of all, it is essential to raise awareness and educate citizens, especially young people, about the wise use of technology. the emphasis must be on strengthening existing measures and we must commit ourselves to a comprehensive approach. the high level of protection of data subjects and the specific protection of vulnerable persons, in particular children, should be further consolidated and strengthened. it will also be necessary to improve the modalities and awareness of the exercise of the rights of access, rectification, erasure and blocking of data, and to ensure that citizens are able to exercise their rights. it should nevertheless be stressed that the data protection regime, while not being a hindrance to the protection of privacy and data, must keep administrative and financial burdens to a minimum, especially for smes.
in writing. − supporting uniform consumer information at eu level is a priority and this is done through this report. in particular in border areas, it is important for the protection of consumers that this information be provided according to similar criteria. this desirable harmonisation should not, however, hide the fact that consumer information is far from perfect and that this subject will continue to require regular improvements and adaptations in the future.
in writing. this report is a good compromise in that it provides the consumer with clear, readable and comprehensible information on the products purchased, while not imposing too many new burdens on industry, especially smes. this report will improve the quality of products. it focuses on the nutritional properties of food and trans fats, so that consumers' health is better protected. all consumers, especially those with allergies, have the right to know the composition of food and especially the origin of meat and poultry, fresh fruit and vegetables and fish. this will allow them to better meet their needs or their diet. this also meets a need for harmonisation of information and the need to guarantee conditions of competition within the internal market.
in writing. the european parliament voted today on a report on crossborder exchanges of information on road traffic offences. 31 000 people are still killed and 300 000 seriously injured on european roads every year. 30% of these accidents are caused by speeding by drivers who live in a country other than the one in which they committed the road traffic offence! in addition, many crossborder road traffic offences go unpunished. the european parliament therefore calls for the country of origin of the driver involved in a serious road accident to be informed in order to ensure effective repression of the offence, in order to protect road users. the obstacles to crossborder cooperation remain significant, including the lack of police cooperation between member states. this report is therefore a first step towards crossborder cooperation such as that which already exists between belgium, the netherlands, germany and luxembourg.
in writing. by adopting this report on eu legislation on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tses) and related controls of feed and food, the european parliament has dealt a "knife blow" to the moral contract binding it to european citizens. he did, however, put an end to a 15-year ban. a decision taken in 1996 in the wake of the mad cow crisis (bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse)). the vote this afternoon (485 votes to 162) sends the exact opposite message to what not only a majority of consumers but also farmers, distributors and food manufacturers want to hear. all these direct actors opposed the reintroduction of animal flours. yet nothing has changed in 15 years; scientific uncertainties remain, particularly for farmed fish, and there is no guarantee of effective traceability at european level to trace the origin of animal by-products flours. in conclusion, until the commission writes in black and white that animal meal poses no health safety problem, the 27 agriculture ministers will have to oppose a food policy which the citizens of europe no longer want.
in writing. - the commission proposed some time ago to lift provisions prohibiting the use of processed animal protein in feed for non-ruminants. the ep calls for strict conditions. the treated slaughterhouse waste may only come from species not associated with tse diseases. the production and sterilisation methods used for the treatment of slaughterhouse waste must meet the highest safety standards. the prohibition on recycling within the species ('cannibalism') should remain in force. the treatment of slaughter waste of different species should be completely separated. the separation of these production channels should be ensured by the competent authorities in the member states and monitored by the commission. before the ban on meat and bone meal is lifted, a reliable species-specific method should be applied to identify the animal species from which the proteins in feed originate, in order to prevent 'cannibalism' and the feeding of animal meal to ruminants. finally, the production of processed animal protein from category 1 or category 2 material is prohibited. only category 3 material suitable for human consumption may be used for the production of processed animal protein. only strict compliance with these conditions can lead to the lifting of the ban on meat and bone meal.
in writing. i am obviously disappointed with the outcome of this vote, because while the reintroduction of animal meal can be a solution to the current eu protein deficit, it is also true that the food security of europeans must be a priority. moreover, if we have to take into account the scientific and economic data relating to the use of animal flour, we must also respect the expectations of the europeans. in the midst of the health psychosis of e. coli, the question of consumer acceptability is quite understandable. the spectre of bovine spongiform encephalopathy and the associated images of hundreds of mad cows being slaughtered, with the added fear of the creutzfeldt-jakob variant, should make us extremely cautious and responsible. that is why i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - following the attacks in new york, london and madrid, airport security has been greatly tightened. it's absolutely necessary to thwart any possible attacks. but there are limits to what is permitted. the report on the use of security scanners at airports has fortunately been considerably improved in terms of privacy protection. the report does not express a clear preference for body scanners, but other technologies can also be used for security research. all of these must guarantee the health of passengers and their fundamental rights. therefore, data resulting from such research should be used only in that capacity and should be deleted immediately for privacy reasons. for example, no profiles may be used. screening should be random and certainly not selective. finally, x-ray technology is prohibited for health reasons for both passengers and workers. our group has also succeeded in forcing a revision of the land-use directive. as the report has been largely improved by green amendments, i have given it my full support.
in writing. it is well known that the representation of women in management positions, within companies or in management bodies, is extremely low. given the increasing number of women entering the workforce after a university degree, it would seem logical to find the same proportion in management positions, but this is not the case! this report, drawn up by my colleague mr kratsatsagaropoulou, is going in the right direction; that's why i supported him. it stressed the need for member states to take measures to enable women to combine work and family life in the best possible conditions, in particular through quality services at affordable prices (e.g. childcare). the introduction of quotas in company boards is also dealt with in this report and i welcome this. as you know, the belgian federal parliament passed legislation a few weeks ago requiring a one-third quota of women on the boards of publicly owned and listed companies. belgium is a pioneer in this field, as are france and norway.
in writing. parliament adopted this report to encourage the commission to impose quotas for women on the boards of publicly traded companies. the message is clear: the objective of diversity must be a priority. today, only 10% of the directors of publicly listed companies in the union are women; this figure rises to 3% in the boards of directors. but i regret that the debate has not been more extensive on the method needed to achieve a better representation of women. this report does not mention public enterprises, which could be used as an example and where the shareholder state could impose a quota or even a parity within the management. moreover, as the belgian council of state has recently pointed out, under the freedom of association enshrined in the constitution, the composition and control of the board of directors of a private company listed on the stock exchange is and must remain the responsibility of its shareholders. more generally, the direct use of coercion rather than example risks discrediting and creating an irreversible suspicion of illegitimacy in women who are present only because of a regulation.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam high representative, you have done a lot of work, and you have our full support. however, the resolution of parliament today concerns countries which are somewhat forgotten: syria, bahrain and yemen. in calling for this focus, we were pursuing a twofold objective. the first is to break the silence and avoid the idea of double standards in the region, and these countries are experiencing bloody repression. the second objective was, while remaining firm in condemning the abuses committed there, to leave a political space, as you will see, for possible negotiations. this resolution is very widely supported by the political groups, and i will confine myself to two or three remarks: the first is a bit ridiculous, it is linguistic. i don't like the idea of the arab world in the title. it's a bit of a postcolonial connotation, as if there was "an" arab world. the resolution shows, and you also say, that there are many countries with their own distinct identities, there are regions such as the maghreb, the mashreq, and this idea of the arab world, i think we must forget it. my second point concerns syria. the repression in this country today is bloody, cruel, ruthless; the children themselves are not spared. the resolution condemns these crimes, which cannot go unpunished. it is concerned about the floods of refugees now crossing the syrian/turkish border; it is calling for humanitarian corridors, for un intervention and it is supporting the emerging opposition outside and inside the country, but it is staying put. then why? why didn't we go further? why did we not say, for example, that we wanted bashar al-assad to go, who disappointed all those who had believed that he would change the repressive system inherited from his father? this president seems to have crossed a red line, which is a line of no return. well, because we wanted to make room for a political negotiation in the colours of europe. madam high representative, syria is descending into violence. religious minorities, especially christians, are now threatened by extremists. don't hesitate to go to damascus. i ask you, madam high representative, to be less distant, unlike my colleague. we need a strong political gesture and a high-level european presence on the ground. there may still be a chance, i ask you to try to seize it. my third point is more general. my time is running out, but i want to say that we support the service for external action; we have a much better relationship with him, but there is a superposition of the structures of the high representative, the task force, etc. which has yet to be proven. the aid to these countries is a test today, and i hope, of course, that these structures and the external action service will rise to the challenge. it's about our credibility.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to ask baroness ashton whether she has seen the shocking images on youtube in the past two days that show a man in syria filming demonstrations in a street full of homes. at one moment he sees a sniper from the presidential militia and is killed by this very same man, live, as he is filming. that is what you see on youtube: his own death. that man – and there are many cases like that – was killed because he was trying to make one thing clear: he was taking these pictures to put them on the internet. he wanted everybody outside syria to see what is happening in syria, what continues to happen: a massacre of citizens with more than 1 500 deaths for the moment. in the outside world – let us be honest – we are watching and doing nothing, or almost nothing, to prevent it. i know syria is not libya, so there is no front line to defend. what is happening there is completely different from what is happening in libya. in that sense, libya is maybe more difficult to tackle, but that does not mean we cannot do more than we are currently doing. we are waiting for a un security council resolution, and that has been the case now for weeks and weeks. we are hoping for a breakthrough with brazil, with russia and with china on this issue, and it has not been forthcoming. when we see, on the one hand, dramatic scenes taking place on the ground, live, and, on the other hand, brazil, china and russia blocking the security council, we have to imagine another other way and ask further questions. we have to do more on our side and not wait for a security council resolution which will not come in the next few days or even weeks. i have a proposal. i think two things can be done in addition to what we have discussed up to now. first of all, we can extend the list of the people covered under sanctions. there is currently a list of 30 people, which has had to meet with the approval of the international community, or at least of the us and the european union. we have to extend sanctions to all the 200 families who are currently in power in syria, and who still support assad by earning money thanks to the regime. it is thanks to these 200 families that assad is still there. it is thanks to these 200 families that the massacre is still going on, and it is thanks to these 200 families that – as we can see on the internet – snipers are killing innocent people on the streets. we can do more than waiting; waiting for weeks and weeks for a resolution that is not forthcoming in the security council. what we can do is target these people and extend the travel ban and asset freezing to these 200 families, who are very well known, and extend the list of 30. that is the first thing to do. i have a second proposal: we should finally face up to reality. there is no front line to defend, so we cannot do the same thing as in libya, but we should at least consider the possibility of creating a safe zone, what we call a ‘demilitarised zone’, on syrian territory. this is not wishful thinking, because it is currently under consideration in ankara. this has already been done, in 1991 in iraq – with the support of the us, you will remember – to protect the people living in the north of the country. this is what we should do; otherwise we will continue to see what is happening now: more killings. we should do this as fast as possible. my proposal is: please stop waiting for unanimity – which will not come in the un – and take the lead on these two additional initiatives.
mr president, the turmoil in north africa and the middle east and what we call – for lack of a better word – the arab world in general, is such that one does not know where to begin. of course the situation in syria is the most worrisome and provokes the most indignation – and rightly so. also worrisome is what appears increasingly to be a stalemate in libya. i am afraid that in both situations a strictly military solution is probably not possible. if that is so, then we need to find a political, diplomatic solution, however unpalatable that might be inasmuch as it means, either directly or indirectly, entering into conversation and negotiation with leaders whom we despise and rightly want to see condemned for treating their own people in the most horrible way. i am afraid we need to face the fact that there might be no other solution. with regard to the conflict between palestine and israel, it is clear to us that progress here could be extremely important, both to spare us the torment of having to take positions in the un general assembly next september and also in terms of advancing towards a peaceful solution. finally, i would like to welcome the glimmers of hope offered by recent events in morocco, jordan and – to a slightly lesser degree – algeria, as well as the developments in tunisia and egypt. let me conclude by calling upon the member states to please respond to these positive developments with a ‘yes’ to increased financial assistance to the countries concerned.
president, madam high representative, thank you for your introduction and for the efforts you have already made. the situation varies greatly from country to country, of course, and what has been of increasing concern to us in recent weeks and days is the situation in syria. the shocking images, the more than a thousand dead, the many people being hunted down and imprisoned, the tens of thousands of refugees too, and it is not going to stop despite the pressure that has been gradually built up and, among other things, the sanctions that you have announced. but that does not seem to make any impression at all, or at all, it is far too little. i am of course in agreement with the argument that in the absence of a un resolution the options are temporarily limited, that political dialogue, which must now begin very quickly, is the best solution, but it must not be limited to words. we have heard many announcements from damascus, but we must act. what are our short-term options? we must further tighten and extend the sanctions regime, although its effects should not be overestimated. the people are fighting for their political survival, both literally and figuratively, and a cat in trouble sometimes makes strange leaps. but we have to do it. secondly, the european union must develop a strategy to reassure the minorities who seem to be continuing to support the regime. it must be made clear that there is no future with this regime, that dialogue and change are needed and that their security can be guaranteed in a new context. thirdly, the longer the situation lasts, the more victims there will be but also the more the country will be strangled economically and financially. and that will lead to new difficulties, weaken the regime and perhaps force some leniency. we must monitor this very closely and be alert and responsive to new developments. finally, i join those who have stressed the role that turkey can and must play in resolving the situation in syria and i would ask you, madam high representative, to engage in very close and coordinated consultations with turkey.
mr president, madam high representative, commissioner, the syrian people no longer give any credit to bashar al-assad. this revolution was launched - it was said very widely - as in tunisia, egypt, libya, yemen, in the name of dignity, freedom, democracy. this has nothing to do, of course, with the fundamentalism that we have talked about so much, as a kind of scarecrow. these revolutions are clearly inspired by the notion of the secularism of the state and by the desire for freedom of a youth who wants to take their destiny into their own hands. so the pressure we apply must be effective. today, they are rhetorical. they are not, it seems to me, sufficiently effective. we need to move beyond virtual postures. i know the limits, mrs. ashton, of diplomacy; i know that it is difficult to define a common position within the 27 but there is one thing i also know, and that is that you have the possibility, if you wish, to propose, for example, a somewhat more radical measure, which would be to ask the 27 member states to send back syrian diplomats stationed in europe. this is a demand made by the syrian opposition. i think there is a strong element here which i think could be a little more effective. i would also, of course, ask you to relay this request for an independent international commission of inquiry and, finally, the last element - this has been said admirably by mr pöttering and others, notably by mr brok - i think you cannot ignore the strong link of opportunity between what is happening in the muslim and arab world and what should be happening in the middle east. i think we have an opportunity here to make a decisive contribution to the settlement of the middle east conflict by putting pressure on both sides. i did not like the excesses of the language of the spokesmen of some and of the spokesmen of others. (applause) i would like to thank today, what is needed is to try to find a compromise and an understanding. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr president, i have made this proposal, of course, in order to have it passed on to the united nations as well, but i think that a first step would be to do so at the level of the european union. in any case, it seems to me that this proposal would have the merit of placing our member states in the position of having to face up to their responsibilities in relation to the necessary isolation of syria.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, first of all, let me thank my colleagues who have contributed so much to this report on democratisation that i sometimes cannot quite put my finger on it. but they did so with a very positive spirit and their contribution has served to enrich the report. now, what does this report say? first, he was largely inspired by what happened in north africa and by these arab revolutions. all this has posed a problem for us, the european union. to what extent have we really used the instruments we have in place to support democracy, what we have done with regard to past regimes? the first answer is no. we did not support democracy; we have supported what we hope will be stability in the region, but stability without democracy can also lead to police regimes. it was therefore a question of putting it into question, and now this report makes some suggestions. the first suggestion is a bit philosophical, but it is fundamental: let us rebuild the policies we pursue towards our neighbourhood on the basis of our values, the values we share and, in particular, democracy. that's what has to come first. the second suggestion is to dare, to dare to play more, perhaps, political democracy. we played democracy by saying to ourselves, "as soon as there is development, as soon as there is economic growth in a country, democracy will follow". no, democracy doesn't always follow. of course, there can be very unequal distributions of wealth. we must therefore also be able to support political, democratic structures in these countries and act as a political guide. today, with these transitions and a world in full change, we realise that we may not have all the instruments needed to support and politically accompany these democracies. we have election observation missions, but that's not enough; we must do more, and the report says so. the third point that the report makes is that we must support civil society and the forces within civil society, and there is no shortage of examples to show how new civil actors have emerged who can play a decisive role in these democratic transitions, such as the free press, the internet, etc., women, trade unions, youth organisations. so these are the main elements of the report. now, do we have the tools? we have a lot of instruments. there are many instruments that can be used today in a more coherent and effective way for democracy. we have the instrument of the democracy and human rights initiative, but we also have the possibility, under the lisbon treaty, of making better use of our trade agreements; we have the stability instrument, we have a whole series of instruments. now, is that enough? are these instruments effective? are they going to get straight to the point? are they reactive, proactive, fast? well, they may not be proactive enough, they may not be fast enough and they probably need to be strengthened, improved. should new ones be created? i had my ear pulled for a long time and we arrived, the polish presidency arrived with a wonderful project: endowment for democracy. i thought, "what? yet another new instrument, when all the others have not even been given their full effectiveness!" so what is the result of this reflection today? we're not against it. we are not against this wonderful project of the polish presidency. poland has a long history, and we can look back on it with great examples of democratization. but we do not think that it should replace what already exists. we think that all this should remain under the control of the european parliament, if money has been taken from the budget to finance it. we believe that this project should not be too burdensome, that it should not add a new administrative layer, but that it can be interesting, used in an ad hoc way, to finance certain actors that are difficult to finance through the current instruments. that is, in a broad sense, the spirit in which we have worked. if this project is not yet ready for us, we have made progress in both directions before reaching a final result today; we think it is a good project and that it should be continued, but we are not yet in full agreement on the positions of the european parliament and on the polish project. but we must continue negotiations, and i am sure that will succeed.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, the very broad convergence which exists today in the political groups on this report is not at all due to my work, it is really due to the fact - and we heard it in the various speeches - that this question of democracy is at the heart of european history. when i hear some of my colleagues recall that they experienced the soviet occupation, the salazar dictatorship, the franco dictatorship and that they fought against it, we feel that there is something that binds us together, and that is what makes this report united and what is really interesting. we want this wealth, which is europe's wealth, to be able to benefit others. of course, mrs nedelcheva is right, not in patronizing other countries, not in practicing a postcolonial policy, but in respecting diversity. i think that is what the contents of the report were about. i wish you luck, mrs ashton. you 're going to south sudan; we have, again, a case study here, just as the countries that experienced the arab revolutions this summer and this year are a case study for us. how can we make sure that this new country, whose election observation we have followed, will finally be able to withstand this transition, which will be very difficult, and which, unfortunately, is accompanied today by some echoes of war? so i simply propose to you, mrs ashton, that we have further meetings on south sudan as a basis for action and i hope that this report, which was drawn up in sudan - since i was there - will at least enable us to put this into practice.
i have received, in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure, five motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 7 july 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the commission to make a statement on the changes to the schengen system (2011/2753 ((rsp)).
madam president, the commission's decision to cut the funding of this food aid programme so sharply is a startling one to say the least. why has the commission not appealed the decision of the court of justice of the european union? why didn't you immediately suggest an alternative? how can we find a legal basis for funding of 113 million, but not 500? unfortunately, this programme is necessary because not all europeans are fed to their stomachs. it concerns 18 million people, as you said. the europe 2020 strategy aims to reduce the number of poor people in europe by 20 million. food poverty is one facet of this. in the report on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion, both in my draft report and in the opinion of the committee on budgets, we reacted to this decision by calling for short-term and medium-term measures to be taken to ensure that the poorest are not left behind. these solutions, which must be put into practice as a matter of urgency, must cover both the social and agricultural aspects of the problem and this should not be at the expense of the amounts allocated to other social policies. this situation, which no one here wanted and no one can accept, requires the swift mobilization of all and this resolution, which will be put to the vote this afternoon, requires massive support.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while we deplore the attitude of the european commission, which, by not appealing the court decision, has de facto approved the amputation of the budget allocated to the poorest of the poor of almost eur 400 million, i welcome, however, the speech made by mr barroso this tuesday before parliament, which is in keeping with the spirit of the motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by parliament. in the debate on the multiannual financial framework, mr barroso recalled how much the poorest european citizens need our help to survive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i therefore responded to this by asking the council - but it will not answer today - why it cannot explain to us why this matter has been in the fridge for three years. the council is therefore clearly in the driver's seat, and must find a solution for 2012.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today, but not on this proposal. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for a brief presentation of the report by geoffrey van orden, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the state of play of the mine action (2011/2007 ((ini)) (a7-0211/2011).
the point is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. (the sitting was suspended at 11.45 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
in writing. − the european year of active ageing is more than an additional european year, considering that soon more citizens will be retired than working. this, of course, presents us with the challenge of enabling active ageing, but also requires the solution of many social and societal problems. the elderly must be allowed to participate more in active life, because their experience and work are important for both family and professional life. this is one way of maintaining solidarity between the generations.
in writing. it is a mistake to see ageing as a negative factor affecting the social future of society. as long as the elderly retain a full place in society, they are certainly not a burden, for they can contribute to the general development, either as an actor or as a consumer. in body and mind, the elderly are moving from their traditional status as marginalised and protected persons in a somewhat paternalistic way to becoming actors in their own lives and in the economic, social and cultural spheres of society. the freedom of choice of life is possible only if there is sufficient income. this is why we must offer workers over 50 more opportunities and opportunities in the labour market and fight the prejudice that older workers are taking the place of younger workers. society needs older people, their experience, their know-how and their flexibility. this is a key issue and promoting active ageing also requires improving solidarity and cooperation between generations.
in writing. europe must increase its pressure on governments that do not hesitate to kill their own citizens who dream of liberation from dictatorship. in syria, the army systematically prevents hospitals from treating the wounded, killing and torturing children. we are facing unspeakable crimes that cannot go unpunished. the reforms promised by president bashar al-assad are not being implemented. the people no longer give him any credit. on the contrary, it calls on us to act, to remind the syrian authorities that no one is above the law, respect for international norms and human rights. i supported this resolution because we cannot remain silent in the face of the atrocities and massacres that are being committed in europe's neighbourhood. we can no longer wait for a un resolution. it is our duty to provide active support to the syrian people, because the european project is a pillar of values that embodies openness, human rights, respect for norms, solidarity, justice and equality.
in writing. human rights and democracy are founding values of the european union and must guide the union's external action. this report on the eu's external policies in support of democracy highlights the actions taken to support democracy around the world: election observation missions, institution building support, defence of human rights activists, support for civil society... in the last presidential, legislative and provincial elections in the democratic republic of congo in 2006, the eu sent a large observer mission to verify the smooth running of the elections and to assess the democratic nature of the results. i voted in favour of this report, in particular, because it stresses the importance of drawing up realistic and feasible recommendations at the end of each observer mission, the implementation of which must be supported by the eu. follow-up and support work is the best guarantee that the recommendations will be adopted and that the emerging democracies will be able to master the tools necessary for this key element of democracy, elections.
in writing. the right to freedom of movement is one of the most fundamental and visible rights conferred on citizens of the union. the creation of the schengen area and the integration of the schengen acquis into the framework of the union represent one of the greatest achievements of the european integration process. freedom of movement has become and must remain one of the pillars of european citizenship. therefore any further derogation from the current provisions or reintroduction, even exceptionally, of border controls will not be in the interests of strengthening the schengen system and will be contrary to the letter and spirit of the treaties and the acquis communautaire. the conditions for the temporary and exceptional reintroduction of internal border controls are already clearly set out in the schengen borders code. it is essential to strengthen schengen governance in order to ensure that each member state is able to control its external borders of the union and to strengthen mutual trust. there is also a need for greater solidarity with member states facing large flows of migrants.
in writing. 2010 was the year of the fight against poverty. the decision of the european court of justice is legally correct, but it is politically unjustifiable. we can talk about a problem of political ethics or a moral scandal. ensuring that every human being has adequate and regular food is not just a moral imperative; it is the fulfillment of a fundamental human right. what could be more shocking than to see this basic right being flouted, when the modern world, europe has the means to achieve it? we cannot continue to accept the existence of abundance and waste, when the tragedy of hunger is becoming ever more acute. according to the latest estimates, 80 million people in the union are at risk of food poverty. in a world of unevenly distributed abundance, it is up to all of us to combine our efforts and talents to work decisively to eliminate food insecurity. europe has shown its unity, its determination and its ability to support its economy. it must do the same to support the less well-off. we must find a way to make this program of aid to the most deprived sustainable.
in writing. the conflict between libyan rebels and government forces once again demonstrates the criminal nature of anti-personnel mines. worse still, once the fighting is over, these mines will continue to endanger civilians, especially children, for many years to come. libya is one of the 37 countries that have not acceded to the 1997 ottawa convention. a total of 156 countries are parties to the convention, which prohibits the use, production, stockpiling and sale of antipersonnel landmines. this report, which i fully support, calls in particular on the european union to increase substantially the share of funds allocated to victims' assistance, without, however, prejudicing the funds allocated to demining, the problem of course having to be solved in a structural way. particular attention should be paid to countries which are having difficulty in solving this enormous demining challenge on their own. the main objective is to ensure that an ever-increasing number of areas are cleared of their mines, in order to promote economic development and the improvement of the living conditions of civilians who have already suffered far too much.
author. - madam president, it is with great emotion, anger and sometimes rage that i see the case of these women raped in eastern congo being brought back to the table. it's not the first time and we're helpless in the face of it. i just want to say that i can't believe this impotence. we have listed what was decided at the un and monusco. a law is currently being drafted in the democratic republic of congo to establish special courts for such violations. as we have said, it is a political negotiation that is needed in this part of the country where the civil war is resuming. but let me also say that there is something that revolts me more than anything else: we have visited these women, we have heard them here in parliament. the victims of rape are not even allowed to have a voluntary abortion, and today the children of rape are rejected by all communities. this is a human tragedy today. i do not want to be seen, ladies and gentlemen, as putting the abortion issue back on the table in the light of the urgency. in most of the countries where abortion is now prohibited, rape is an exception. it's not yet in the congo, and these 100 women and the 300 others we met will have children that they won't love and who will be among those children thrown out on the street in the congo. there's a human drama here. i'd like to think about it somewhere else, at some other time. this is unacceptable in every respect.
the situation in indonesia at the moment is more than worrying. traditionally described as a mosaic of peoples and ethnicities, with muslims, christians, buddhists, hindus, and animists living side by side with a measure of religious freedom, indonesia is now mired in muslim extremism. the ahmadis, but also christians and buddhists, for example, are victims of religious intolerance, which i fear is only beginning. the fact that the state, through its minister for religious affairs and its police, is sponsoring this violence is totally unacceptable on the part of a country which is also in the midst of economic development and which intends to exert an increasingly greater influence on the international scene. the government must act together with civil society to put an end to these atrocities and restore respect for human rights and religious freedom. he must do it quickly, before this country plunges into civil war.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on a point of order, because you have mentioned everything that has happened concerning the euro crisis. i want to put a question to you and also to ask what initiative we should take. is it true that tomorrow we will see the italian prime minister, mr berlusconi, here in parliament? on what issue, i do not know and i shall not discuss the reasons for that, but my question is: is it true? and if it is true that you will see him, do you not think that it is necessary to ask that he also meet the competent committee about his austerity plan – that is the econ committee – as mr papandreou did? mr papandreou also came to parliament about his austerity plan and then he came directly to the crisis committee to explain his plan. it was a very positive meeting. i do not know why mr berlusconi is coming tomorrow, but if he is coming to see you concerning his austerity plan, my request to you is that he appear before the competent econ committee to explain his measures and the way italy will apply the stability plan.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european union's external border management agency which introduces new rules. since 2005, frontex has been responsible for coordinating police activities at the eu's external borders. it was time to evaluate the first six years in order to strengthen it and make it more effective. i welcome the fact that the agency is no longer dependent on the member states for the purchase or lease of equipment (vehicles, helicopters, etc.). in addition, member states are legally obliged to fulfil their commitments to provide staff or equipment to the agency on an annual basis. i am satisfied with the fact that mechanisms have been put in place to ensure that the fundamental rights of migrants are respected, in particular through the appointment of a 'fundamental rights officer' and the development of a code of conduct. in accordance with international law, no migrant may be disembarked or handed over to the authorities of a state in which his life or liberty is threatened. it may seem obvious, but sometimes it's good to remember!
in writing. the new frontex rules adopted today will make the agency more visible and effective. this is a major reform of the agency since its creation. national guards, designated by the member states to take part in the missions, will reinforce the european border guard teams. the agency may also buy or lease its own equipment. the establishment of mechanisms to guarantee respect for fundamental rights is an important achievement in this area. the appointment of a fundamental rights officer and the creation of a consultative forum will make it possible to monitor the respect for fundamental rights in all frontex activities. it should also be emphasised that frontex will have to develop codes of conduct to ensure respect for human rights in all operations, including return operations, paying particular attention to unaccompanied minors and vulnerable persons.
in writing. the adoption of this resolution clearly indicates our desire to be kept informed of any measures concerning the implementation of this agreement, which has a dual commercial and environmental dimension, since its main objective is to 'promote the expansion and diversification of international trade in tropical timber from forests managed and harvested in a sustainable manner and to promote the sustainable management of tropical timber-producing forests'. global warming requires strict measures to ensure environmental governance that respects natural resources and contributes to the sustainable development of the planet. it is estimated that 20% of wood imports into the union are from illegal sources. none of the major tropical forestry regions is exempt the information requested by the european parliament is crucial because this issue is at the heart of the challenges facing the world as a whole, such as global warming, food security, the fight against poverty (1.5 billion people are said to depend on forests for their survival), the fight against corruption and organised crime. finally, illegal exploitation undermines the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights.
in writing. europe has the highest proportion of older women in the world. these women are discriminated against in the labour market and their employment rate is much lower than that of men in the same age group. it is therefore necessary to ensure that discrimination against women over 50 is better taken into account and effectively combated. it is important to integrate gender equality in pension matters. it is also necessary to ensure that conditions are created which enable older women to remain in the labour market and/or to re-enter it. the violence against older women is also a phenomenon that is unfortunately still underestimated today. it is therefore imperative to combat all forms of violence. it would be a mistake to regard ageing as a negative factor affecting the social future of society. as long as the elderly retain a full place in society, they are certainly not a burden, as they can contribute to the general development, either as an actor or as a consumer.
in writing. on the eve of the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations, the report adopted today highlights the often worrying situation of women nearing retirement. twenty-six per cent of women aged 55 and over are at risk of poverty, compared with 20.2 per cent of men. their careers are often interrupted by leave, part-time work or even maternity leave, and they often receive a pension that is less than that of men. this is why member states should effectively mainstream gender equality in the preparation and implementation of pension reforms. women over 55 also suffer from double discrimination in the labour market, which is why their employment rate is low. this trend must be counteracted and women must be allowed to remain in the labour market for as long as they wish.
in writing. - the logic behind the european commission's proposal for an effective eu strategy on raw materials has been reversed in mr bütikofer's report, and fortunately so. the ngos have been very critical. whereas the commission originally (and in that order) promoted access to raw materials on an international market, mining and then efficiency and recycling, the new report focuses primarily on efficiency, reuse, recycling and substitution of raw materials. the report is also strengthened by the fact that mining must not interfere with the eu's nature conservation objectives (natura 2000) and that it incorporates a new philosophy of cooperation with developing countries. it also contains a number of solutions for managing raw materials at european and international level. for example, supporting initiatives such as the extractive industries transparency initiative (eiti) increases transparency in accountability and responsibility. the social aspects of the raw materials problem are also taken into account. the report also condemns speculation in commodities. i am not sure that the wording is correct, but i do support this - i feel it is now - efficient eu strategy for raw materials.
in writing. everyone still remembers the oil spill caused by the deepwater horizon oil rig explosion in the gulf of mexico. the vote on this report was important as the european parliament is tackling the issue of securing these offshore oil and gas activities. emergency plans must be made available... and we also had to take a position in favour of extending the scope of the environmental liability directive so that the 'polluter pays' principle and strict liability apply to all damage to marine waters and biodiversity, so that oil and gas companies can be held responsible for any damage they may cause!
in writing. the deepwater horizon oil rig accident in the gulf of mexico in april 2010 reminded us of the dangers of offshore oil drilling to the environment, biodiversity and coastal communities. this is a reminder that the european parliament has taken note of, when it voted this afternoon on a resolution strengthening environmental and safety standards for all offshore oil and gas activities. this is an essential supply method since more than 90% of oil and 60% of gas in the eu is extracted from the sea. i am glad that the 'polluter pays' principle is clearly stated in the resolution. paragraph 76 explicitly calls for the scope of the environmental liability directive to be extended to all damage to marine waters and biodiversity, with increased liability for oil and gas companies which would assume full coverage of potential damage. the european parliament was also right to reject the proposal to introduce a moratorium on all new offshore oil drilling in eu waters: a choice disproportionate to the need to ensure high safety standards in european waters.
in writing. women entrepreneurship in small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) is a key issue. all studies show that the wealth generated by these companies contributes greatly to the economic growth of the european union. it is essential to support women who wish to start their own businesses, and support must be provided, but the situation must be reviewed in a global way, with tools that allow, in particular, to reconcile work and family life. i fully support this report, which offers some interesting ways of encouraging women to develop their businesses. raising awareness among young girls about entrepreneurship and management is essential if we are to try to reverse the prevailing trend. the european commission and the member states should set up programmes to this end. there is also a need to encourage networking among women entrepreneurs so that they can share their experiences and practices and highlight the obstacles they still face. the road ahead is long and deserves continuous attention!
in writing. removing obstacles to women's entrepreneurship in small and medium-sized enterprises is the whole point of the resolution voted on this afternoon by a large majority of the european parliament. the figures are alarming: in europe, one in four working men is an entrepreneur, while only one in ten women is an entrepreneur. the obstacles are well known: less social protection for the selfemployed, fewer rights, more risks and greater difficulties in reconciling work and private life. the member states have a good interest in exploring new ways of creating jobs: promoting women's entrepreneurship is part of this logic. for example, they would be well advised to promote under-exploited sources of finance, such as the progress microfinance programme, a european tool that allows people who want to start their own business but do not have access to traditional banking services to obtain loans of up to eur 25 000. our resolution also recalls the need to extend the 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' programme, which allows them to work for six months with experienced entrepreneurs in another eu country: a real passport for the training of our young people and a worthwhile bet on the future.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on women entrepreneurship in smes. the latter, which account for 99% of european enterprises, provide two thirds of private sector jobs and generate more than half of the total value added created by enterprises active in the european union. however, too few women are still entrepreneurs: one in ten women is an entrepreneur, compared with one in four men. we must help them, at european and national level, to develop the full economic potential of smes. the development of women's networks is a major tool in this respect: i fully support the commission in its approach and hope that many women will choose to be part of the network of female entrepreneurship ambassadors.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the internationalisation of european smes by michael theurer, niccolò rinaldi, catherine bearder, marielle de sarnez, jürgen creutzmann, godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl, othmar karas, daniel caspary, cristiana muscardini, robert sturdy, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the group of the european conservatives and reformists (o-000185/2011 - b7-0430/2011),
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the eu strategy for the homeless by pervenche berès and karima delli, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000153/2011 b7-0421/2011).
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the flagship initiative on poverty reduction in the current context of budgetary pressure on the member states and the union, i am convinced that economic recovery in europe cannot be effective if we focus solely on budgetary austerity. the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular poverty reduction, are fundamental. social policies cannot be put on the back burner: they must be pursued in parallel with budgetary austerity. thus, in addition to ensuring a decent life for citizens, poverty reduction has significant economic consequences, such as supporting european consumption. homelessness is certainly one of the most advanced stages of homelessness for people in situations of poverty and social exclusion. once homeless, the reintegration into the labour market of the individual whose first concern is "where will i sleep tonight?" becomes even more difficult. i therefore support all the measures recommended in the oral question and the resolution, including the notion of affordable housing. in this respect, social housing is a matter for the member states, which are free to organise this service of general interest as they see fit. this element of the treaties must be recalled so that member states are never hindered in the fight against homelessness by rules on state aid. for all these reasons, we must support this resolution. i hope that it will be adopted by a large majority so that i can refer to it in my future report.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome this resolution on homelessness, because it is our responsibility to stress the extreme urgency of this. first of all, what was a priority yesterday remains an even more important priority today. the lack of a definition and reliable statistical indicators on homelessness does not prevent us from observing, with the help of the crisis, that the number of people living below the poverty line has increased, according to eurostat, from 79 million in 2009 to an estimated 84 million in 2011. ladies and gentlemen, three years ago, our parliament, in its concern to eradicate poverty, asked the member states to put an end to the problems of the homeless by 2015. today, are we any closer to that goal? has the year 2010 dedicated to the fight against poverty really been used by the member states to tackle this serious and permanent precariousness in a practical way? i have serious doubts about that and i regret it very much. in conclusion, i would like to stress the need to develop a comprehensive multi-sectoral strategy to deal with homelessness, because there is of course poverty and homelessness, but there are also family problems, health problems, various accidents and personal vulnerability. a comprehensive, effective, ambitious but tailor-made approach is needed, which takes account of individuals, their diverse backgrounds and their life circumstances. this is a basic right, at least, and many of the most deprived are deprived of it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
no, my lady! in my opinion, it is a problem of translation, since 84 million people have been brought below the poverty line, which is not the same thing at all.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 14 september 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the global approach to anthropogenic emissions other than co2 with a bearing on climate by jo leinen, richard seeber and theodoros skylakakis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000135/2011 b7-0418/2011).
mrs. nobody, i take your word for it. as the person in charge of this parliament's emas programme, i will be sure to pass on your proposal to those who are sometimes not very open to such suggestions.
i have received, in accordance with rule 108 (5), a motion for a resolution. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think everybody here agrees that this is a very deep crisis, but we should not make the mistake at the beginning of this debate of saying that this is a greek debt crisis. the greek debt crisis is maybe the trigger, but what is really at stake is a deep crisis in the eurozone. first of all, we need to make an analysis of why we are in this crisis today, what went wrong. i think the reason is simple: first of all, we made a strategic mistake at the beginning when we launched the euro. we launched a monetary union, but we did not launch an economic and fiscal union, and we know that it is impossible to have one single currency with 17 different governments, 17 different bond markets, 17 different economic strategies. that does not exist anywhere in the world. why should it exist then in europe alone? i think we also made a mistake of method. what we have used over the last 10 years in europe is a bad method, a weak method, an intergovernmental method, and markets simply do not believe that member states can produce enough discipline and enough solidarity to keep together a single currency. that is what we in fact need. that is what markets are asking for. for the first time, we have markets which are not asking for more deregulation; no, they are they asking for more unity in europe, for a transfer of power to the european level. that is the request of the financial markets of today. to complete the analysis, i think that we have also had a bad attitude over the last 18 months, since the start of the crisis. we have seen political leadership in europe in the member states with a stop-and-go policy, a cacophony, half-measures and a lack of global approach. that global approach is what we need now, and what we need to hear from the european commission. what is the global approach that can stop the crisis and then recreate confidence in the markets? what do we need? i think we need four building blocks, and it is for the commission to come forward with these four building blocks. the first is a real economic governance and economic government. excuse me, but the proposals of mrs merkel and mr sarkozy a few weeks ago are not doing the job. a government of heads of state and government seeing each other twice a year is not a government. in my opinion, governments should see each other twice a week and not twice a year, as in the merkel/sarkozy proposal. the second building block is also very clear. we need a eurobond market, because the ecb cannot forever continue to buy bonds off countries in difficulties. that is not possible, so we need a eurobond market. what is the situation today in europe? the real situation in europe is that the bond market in europe is completely blocked. there are today no banks, insurance companies, pension funds or institutional investors who are still willing to buy bonds from a number of european countries and we are now dependent on savings from latin america and china to have enough liquidity in europe for the bonds of a number of european countries. that is the situation. so you have the choice. and in germany you have the choice – and the fdp has the choice, i shall be very blunt about this – either you continue with the situation where we are dependent on savings from outside europe or we create a european bond market now. and it is urgent to do it now and not to wait until the end of the year, as some are proposing. my third proposal, the third building block, is a growth and job act in europe. we need growth. let us do what the us government has done and announce a growth and job pact in europe. finally, mr president of the council, we need the stability pact, the 'six-pack'. let us be honest: yesterday we received a new proposal from your side and we are going backwards instead of forwards. i thought we had an agreement for real automaticity also in the preventive arm of the stability pact: that it is no longer the member states who have the lead, but it is the commission who has the lead. in the new proposal, last proposal i have seen, it is again the opposite. i say there is no deal if the member states do not understand that it is the commission which has to be in the lead of the stability pact and no longer the member states, as this no longer works in europe. my final message is clear: we want the commission to put a global proposal and a global approach on the table of parliament and the council. i can tell you, mr barroso: do that! it is the only way to put confidence back in the markets. that will be a huge global initiative by the commission, backed by the european parliament, and if you do that you can count on this european parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, if you kick the can down the road, your shoes get dirty. that is what we have done with the euro. from the outset, the euro has been a political project ignoring economic realities. whenever a problem arose, we kicked the can. but now realities are flying in our face. we are pushing greece into a hole from which it will never emerge without devaluation. iceland took austerity measures, but it also devalued its currency by 40%. now its economy is growing again. greece will have to do the same. its default is a matter of time. some want to leap into a european transfer union, with eurobonds. i understand the worries in germany. germans will have to pay, but what if germany gets into trouble itself? who saves the saviours, as federal president wulff rightly asked. the liberal fdp is right to oppose eurobonds. unfortunately, they keep silent in this parliament, and are absent. instead, i hear their group leader demanding eurobonds. i support the bavarian csu opposing a united states of europe, but unfortunately here the csu is sitting like a pudding. apparently these parties have two views: one in berlin and one in strasbourg. unsurprisingly, voters get confused. in berlin they are right: a european transfer union will not save the eurozone, but break it up. mr president, may i reply to mr rostowski and mr barroso? i have the impression that i am attending a funeral in waiting. the only thing i do not know is: whose funeral?
mr president, i shall address mr farage. you are a very good speaker here. i admire your skills, but i have one question for you. you said, basically, that by our dictatorial way of dictating to the greeks what they have to do, we will spark a revolution over there. what i noticed over the summer was that the closest that we got to a revolution was, in fact, in the streets of london, and that is not part of the eurozone. so i would like to know how you believe that we are going to get on if it is to be everyone on his own.
we can only conclude, mr president, that the eu is becoming structurally a transfer union, with the taxpayers of the north having to pay the bill for countries that do not take their budgetary discipline very seriously. in other words, the eu is evolving into a kind of belgium in the big picture, which is not an attractive idea. we also see that the successive rescue operations do not put a country like greece in danger. so we can do two things: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no democratic support for this. such plans would be immediately, and rightly, voted down by the electorate if given the opportunity. we can also pursue realistic solutions, such as guiding greece out of the eurozone. that is the best option in the long run, both for greece itself and for the eurozone. and the longer we wait, the more money it costs and the bigger the problems.
mr president, it is high time that we put an end to the wild flood of proposals. all these proposals from all sides are creating confusion and the image of a europe without a steering wheel. i fully agree with you, mr president of the commission, that a step-by-step approach is needed, but we are counting on the commission to steer the way. if we are to succeed, we must have a single script, we must be united and discreet in our communication and we must first implement what has been agreed instead of constantly launching new proposals. this means that we must first of all solve the acute problem and do everything possible to get greece out of the mess. this also means that all politicians must have the courage to explain to their citizens that solidarity with other euro countries is the best deal for everyone in the long run. we must also make structural changes, in other words: a strong six-pack must be passed in this house by the end of september. these and other financial and economic measures are of enormous importance, not only to restore confidence in the markets but also to boost our confidence as europeans. finally, this means that in the longer term we will tackle other systemic failures, even if this implies a treaty amendment. all the ways of thinking towards a more community approach are worth considering in my view, and here we are counting on your leadership, mr president of the commission.
in writing. a european economic government, eurobonds, the rapid adoption of the six-pack (which imposes strict budgetary discipline on governments): it's all very necessary, without a doubt. but these are ambitious interventions and they inevitably take time. we need powerful signals here and now. they're, oddly enough, much simpler in nature. it is a question of putting an end to cacophony, of being unanimous in our strategy, of being clear that the eurozone is one and indivisible, and of being prepared to act with draconian force in times of crisis, as we are today, to preserve that unity. responsible politicians must stop trumpeting scenarios of a possible greek exit. simply because that's a no-go zone. this crisis is a giant litmus test for solidarity within the eu and particularly within the eurozone. it is also a great opportunity to emphasize internal cohesion. but, as i said, there's only one condition. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration.
in writing. today, as financial markets threaten to destroy the prosperity of 500 million eu citizens, we are debating the economic crisis. the presidency and the commission are calling for the adoption of the six-pack to be the way out of the crisis. but this is short-sighted. the six-pack does not answer the question of how to develop socioeconomic policies that generate long-term sustainable prosperity for all europeans. it is all about control and punishment, but it is silent as hell about investing in education, human capital, innovation and infrastructure. of course, there can be no solidarity without budgetary responsibility. but sanitizing means cutting excess fat, letting your muscles rest, and even giving them more oxygen. i am glad that the commission will finally come forward with concrete proposals to introduce eurobonds, although i fear that this may be too little too late. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but not only expenditure needs to be better managed, so too must revenue. we are in favour of fair incomes, a european corporate tax and a financial transaction tax.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in 1940, at the start of the nazi occupation, the norwegian poet nordahl grieg wrote ‘we are so few in this country and every fallen is a brother or a friend’. i think this echoes on today as 76 young people have been massacred – young politicians, youngsters who were just becoming aware of what democracy and citizenship mean, and most of them not even old enough to vote. it was not only a terrible tragedy and a huge loss, but also a direct attack on democracy itself. but i think simply voicing our disgust is a little too easy today. we cannot turn a blind eye to an act of violence like this. perhaps breivik was a madman and acting alone, but let us also be very clear on this. he is also the product of a society, of a movement and of a whole community of activists, chatters and bloggers who despise and reject all societies. what struck me the most was how quickly public figures and politicians declined any responsibility when instead they should have reacted fiercely against breivik’s ideology, an ideology that is anti-islamic, anti-migration, against a multicultural and diverse society, against politically correct thinking, against europe and, finally, against the european union. breivik was in fact acting against the backdrop of a narrative which is becoming more and more common. it describes the current situation in europe as disastrous and considers our society to have come to a point where it is fact no longer possible to trust any democratic government at all. i think that we have to repeat and to remember the words of former president clinton in his speech on the 15-year commemoration of the oklahoma bombing. he said that we politicians and political commentators are also responsible for this as our words are not neutral, our words enter an echo chamber, travel through space and fall on the connected and the unhinged alike. (applause)
in writing. access to documents and transparency are basic principles of institutions and the proper functioning of democracy. however, it must be avoided that this transparency is, in some cases, a brake on the development of the files and negotiations, or even a failure or some form of forced immobility. members must be able to work independently. i fully agree that transparency and openness apply to members of parliament in terms of their participation in parliamentary work and their presence. but i would point out that when we talk about the activities of members, we must avoid going too far, particularly with regard to their agendas, the contacts they have had or the documents and exchanges which a member has received, written or sent in the course of his mandate.
in writing. the doha round negotiations have been under way for almost a decade and it is clear that they will not be concluded at the 8th ministerial conference in december. since 2008, the positions have remained blocked. the objectives set in doha remain relevant: to reduce subsidies that contribute to overfishing, to establish disciplines for agricultural subsidies that distort trade, to eliminate export subsidies, to reduce customs duties on industrial products, to simplify customs formalities, to expand markets for dynamic services sectors and, above all, to better integrate the least developed countries into the trading system. if we want to succeed, we must, as pascal lamy very rightly says, have political courage and be pragmatic. urgent issues for the least developed countries (ldcs), such as cotton and rules of origin, must be addressed without delay.
in writing. we must end the scourge of homelessness in our modern society, this situation is intolerable in the light of the values defended by the eu, in the light of human rights and respect for the human person. what do we see? an increase in precariousness, with the consequent increase in the number of homeless people in the 27 member states, despite the actions taken by many of them to address this. with the adoption of the 2020 strategy, the main objective of which is to reduce by at least 20 million the number of people affected or threatened by poverty and social exclusion by 2020, the fight against homelessness is becoming a de facto priority of the eu's social inclusion process. in order to ensure that no one sleeps on the street, stays in emergency accommodation longer than necessary, leaves an institution without a relocation option, and that no young person becomes homeless as a result of transitioning to independent living, an ambitious and inclusive european strategy, as part of the broader social inclusion process, is needed.
madam president, i have two questions which i would like to share with mr mauro and mr provera: the first concerns the sharia law and the second the question of immigration. i was told that the european flag was flying in tripoli, which is very good, but the libyan revolution still belongs to the libyans, and if we are to support the transition phase that is about to begin, we must go to the bottom of things. on the question of sharia, which we are told is 'soft' according to mr abdeljalil, i would like to know more: what is soft sharia? it's a matter of interpretation. sharia law, from one regime to another, with the same constitution, can do damage. during the dark hours of the war, we met libyan women here, who were absolutely remarkable women, even upsetting -- one of them had been raped there -- and they said to us, "we want decision-making power. we fought for years. we will continue to fight". for all these women who have fought, who want decision-making power, who want another libya, i think this constitutional framework is absolutely crucial. i agree with mr mauro's question on this point, with a few exceptions, but i would like us to take it very seriously. the second issue is that of immigration. i was one of the first to fight against the negotiation of the agreement we wanted to have with gaddafi on immigration, in a country that blatantly violated human rights and we knew it very well. now i am told that we are going to resume these negotiations, but the problem is still there: the entry of this immigration from all of sub-saharan africa. this is a real problem. but is it not possible to have a different vision of the solution to this problem, to think of immigration in terms of development? what is needed to make libya use this capital of labour, now that it needs immigrant labour? can we not invest in a project that is an immigration-development project, instead of taking the lead in negotiations to end up in detention centers, where we will check whether or not they violate human rights? i would therefore like us to be creative in this respect and i would invite the council and the commission to take up these two matters with the help of parliament, but with entirely new visions.
i would like to join with the colleagues who have expressed their horror at what is happening in syria. we must continue to increase the pressure to end this, but we cannot do it alone. to be truly effective, a broad coalition is needed and particularly within the region itself. the european union must therefore look at what turkey is doing, but also - and more recently - at the initiatives of the arab league, and in particular the initiative adopted by the league on 28 august. this initiative calls for, among other things, an immediate end to the violence, the separation of the military from political and civil life, the release of prisoners, presidential elections at the end of assad's term in 2015, but in the meantime a transitional period, managed by a government of national unity with representatives of the opposition, which organizes free elections before the end of this year. and of course a new parliament which will then also prepare a new constitution. my question is whether you, as high representative, or as representative of the representative, can give this initiative a little more resonance and in that way also, not only from europe but also from the region itself, put more pressure on the regime to put an end to what is happening there.
mr president, commissioner, arrests of dissidents, searches, torture and murder are on the increase. it is obviously commonplace to point out that human rights are being totally violated. but this population is fighting for more dignity, more freedom, more democracy. it must be sustained beyond postures and rhetorical statements. we know that if we do not act, the movement risks drifting into an interreligious civil war which would ultimately benefit the party of bashar al-assad. i would therefore like to reiterate our earlier request to create a safe zone in northern syria to rescue refugees and perhaps also to seriously consider the matter, to simply send back syrian diplomats who are in european countries. we need to isolate bashar al-assad completely. turkey has now started to harden its tone and the arab countries are distancing themselves: qatar was the first country to recall its ambassador, followed by saudi arabia, bahrain and kuwait. i think we should also try to persuade russia and china by all means to vote for a resolution with sanctions.
madam president, it is hard to be powerless in the face of what is happening in syria today. i fully agree with the absolute condemnation in this resolution of what is happening in syria, the call for bashar al-assad to leave power and all the proposals that have been made to take strong action - that is, to withdraw our diplomats or send them back, to find targeted sanctions - but there is no model for intervention. we are powerless, but we could also cause tragedy. for those who know syria well, the image of a new iraq is: should we take sanctions that should shrink the regime and impoverish the population, etc.? no, i'm not going. do we need military intervention and so on? this is extremely dangerous. should we, as in the libyan model, support the syrian opposition and try to push this side? again, there is no syrian model: syria is truly in the middle of a powder keg. i think that for now we should both consider diplomatic condemnations and try to get something at the un. we must ask mrs ashton to go to her chinese and russian friends, to meet them at the quartet, to get something. in any case, let us avoid running ahead and not believe that the libyan model can be applied to syria, any more than the iraqi model, which has caused tragedies.
madam president, i very much agree with what mrs de keyser has just said. i think the syrian resistance fighters are heroes. dozens of them every week are threatened, disappeared, shot to death on this blood diet. they deserve unwavering support through all the measures we have mentioned, appropriate sanctions, political isolation, work at the united nations. but let me name one person, dr. nached, a psychoanalyst, who's been in prison for three days. he is someone who has been very committed to human rights issues, to citizenship issues. he's someone who's a symbol. for her sake, but also for all that she symbolizes, i ask the representative here, mr füle, the representative of the high representative, to mobilize for this person, in her name, but also in the name of all those who are already victims today or who will be. as such, i think we owe all these people our unwavering support, and i quote in particular this representative, this woman activist for human rights, citizenship, multiconfessionalism, because i think she represents a little more than this fight that we all want to fight and which calls for immediate and urgent action.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, in eight days' time, president abbas will ask the un to recognize the palestinian state. it is a historical moment which puts us europeans at the foot of the wall, and in the case of palestine, this is not a figure of speech. the european union has taken the responsibility it assumed in 1948 to recognise the state of israel and has since been a consistent supporter of a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both states. it did not merely say so, as in the council conclusions of december 2009. it helped build palestinian institutions, including by funding the fayad plan which, after two years, succeeded in building credible palestinian institutions. it is therefore time to take a further step, a diplomatic step, which would be to support the palestinian approach at the un. the palestinians deserve it, the palestinians have a right to it, the palestinians believe in it. some people will say, the united states doesn't want it. is europe just the timid echo of the united states? since the famous speech in cairo, mr. obama has been going backwards and is entangled in his possible reelection. let's leave the united states. some people will say, "well, that's not going to change anything on the ground". and they're right. that's right, we need to get back to the negotiating table as soon as possible. the palestinians, with their rights and with their recognition as a state, must return to the negotiating table, but on a much more balanced basis, with new rights and new responsibilities. some will say, and have said, that we are in danger of disunity. whose fault is it? it is our fault, the european parliament, that we are not the voice of our governments but the voice of the people. an article in haaretz shows that the people are overwhelmingly in favor of a palestinian state. it is up to us to help our governments to speak with one voice, with a courageous political position, but also an ethical position, because beyond this problem, it is the whole credibility of europe vis-à-vis the arab spring that is at stake. we support libya, we support tunisia, we support egypt, we deplore the martyrdom of syria. but the un is the palestinian arab spring, it is the peaceful way, it is the way of negotiation, it is the way of diplomacy that wants to be practised at the un. this is what we must support, otherwise tomorrow the middle east will plunge back into violence. we have a historic responsibility today, a responsibility for peace in the middle east. there is an opportunity and we must seize it: that is what my group wanted to say to you today. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, i will tell my colleague, mr paşcu, that this is not a question of the declaration of independence of palestine, which took place a long time ago, but of the request for recognition of palestine as a member state of the un, which is something totally different. the application for recognition of un membership confers duties, obligations, possibilities of accession to the international court of justice, to certain treaties. it therefore provides a kind of parity in the negotiations. it also places the negotiations in a multilateral framework. it is therefore this rebalancing of the two sides which could perhaps bring more serenity to the debates.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office, it is always interesting to see a small debate taking place within the same political group. it's like you never get a chance to talk to each other. but, finally, we learned a lot from this little exchange. i shall, however, express a position which i believe is the majority position in my group but which is not necessarily shared by every single member of my group. i must say this with sincerity. i would first of all like to thank mr dowgielewicz - if i pronounce your name correctly - for having made it very clear to us - finally, for those who are familiar with the question - where we are and what we are trying to do. you have rightly referred to the quartet meeting on 6 july last, at which it was decided to do everything possible to resume the negotiations, which have not resumed at all since then. it's the least i can do. we are now faced with a possible palestinian initiative and - if i understand what is happening at the moment - with all-round negotiations aimed at giving this request by the palestinian authority a form which would allow the greatest possible unity among the member states of the union. it is an effort which we support and which we hope will succeed. but i would also like to make it clear to you, ladies and gentlemen, that if this effort should fail, if the united nations general assembly should be asked to recognize the palestinian authority as a sovereign state, i hope that the majority of the member states of the union - if not all - will continue to support the position which has been very clearly theirs since the end of last year, and which you, mr president-in-office, have also mentioned. because it must be very clear - and i conclude here - that we cannot and must not ask the palestinians to pay the price of european union unity. it is our responsibility to take care of this, not theirs.
mr president, mr minister, the recognition of a palestinian state is justified: it is a legitimate demand which we of course support. but because i believe in the rightness of this cause, i also believe that a solution for the middle east must necessarily be found through the resumption of negotiations. we know this, at least since the oslo accords: unilateral actions have never, ever, advanced peace agreements. the mediators in this conflict - the quartet and the council - are also firmly convinced of this. mrs asthon said yesterday in cairo that the european union sees negotiations as the way forward, and our representative in the council also said that in his opening remarks. i hear some of my colleagues, and many member states already, supporting this palestinian initiative unreservedly and a priori, without any framework, text or markers on the table. in other words, a kind of blank check to an operation "palestine", "palestine united", by the way, which does not correspond to the reality on the ground, made up of reconciled brother enemies, but only in the front - to cut a long story short here. what i fear, in reality, is that unilateral action will permanently paralyse the negotiations, by eliminating any room for compromise and freezing non-negotiated red lines on which the palestinian leadership will not and cannot move an iota. i fear that this unilateral action will turn into fruitless diplomatic confrontations, as the french foreign minister recently pointed out. if there is no common european position today, it is precisely because there is no text - and i agree with mrs de keyser and all the other speakers who have said this - or resolution, just a few days before the announcement is due. i am convinced that everything will depend on this text, on what the europeans will convince the palestinians to include in it and what they will not. that is the leverage that the european union can and must have, if it gives its fists. it also means the difficulty and ambition of our task. in the present state of affairs, with nothing on the table, i can only hope that this text, which is very late, will allow the european union to play its role, because i believe in a two-state solution, a negotiated solution, because i believe above all in dialogue - i am concluding, mr president - a difficult dialogue, certainly, but one which is fraught with heartbreaking conflicts, but one which is necessary, particularly on the settlements. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, i will be brief. i wanted to say something earlier about the principle of this blue card. i do not have the regulation in front of me, but i find it a little unfortunate that the blue card becomes a kind of alibi for confrontations that have little to do with the interventions of one or the other. this is very symptomatic of the passionate debates we have, particularly on the middle east. i think the principle is to react to the points we have raised in our speeches. it must not turn into a kind of interrogation, a global inquisition and, in general, an ad hominem argument. it is an anecdote, but every time i speak here, mrs kiil-nielsen intervenes. as far as the use of the term 'unilateral' is concerned, it is simply the fact that it is a negotiated solution, that seems simple to me. i explained it, i got a minute and thirty seconds for it and i don't have to justify the whole set of implants. i already fired mrs. kiil-nielsen... (the president asked the speaker to conclude) can i still answer the questions that are being asked of me? i do not know what the time limit is, but i will not take less time to answer than the question took. (the president cut the speaker off)
president. - after almost 20 years of peace process, we can only conclude that all attempts to reach a two-state solution have failed. i therefore regard the question from the palestinian authority as a desperate attempt to break the deadlock. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. only then will the two parties be more equal. it is of course of the utmost importance that there should be no impression of international division. the european union must make a strong effort to achieve this. but what about the attitude of the united states and president obama? last year he called on the general assembly to establish an independent palestine and now he threatens to block it. but i also find the attitude of the high representative very ambiguous, because we hear that she is trying to persuade the palestinian authority to abandon the initiative. but is this not just to cover up the internal divisions within the european union? the european union must use its right to speak to send a strong common signal to the united nations, because a breakthrough must come now.
mr president, millions of deaths could be avoided if member states tackled the risk factors for noncommunicable diseases more firmly. commissioner, that is the responsibility that we all have to bear, especially those taking part in the un high-level meeting. i would like to make three specific comments on the means of achieving this. first, the fight against overeating and poor nutrition must be a priority. our dietary habits, consisting of more refined foods, animal foods and fats, play a major role in the current epidemic of noncommunicable diseases. one study found that meat, dairy products, eggs and animal fats accounted for an average of 77 percent of saturated fatty acid intake and 100 percent of cholesterol intake in developed countries. it is therefore essential not to urge the maximum elimination of fatty acids, sugar, salt, for example, but to advocate moderation and responsible and balanced consumption, since only excessive consumption is harmful to health. secondly, alongside preventive and behavioural health policies, i would particularly like to stress the importance of the scientific contribution of research, which we must support to the maximum extent possible, including by devoting adequate financial resources to it. many treatments are still to be found, for example in the fight against cancer or alzheimer's disease, in comparison with which research on adult stem cells, for example, seems promising but unfortunately underfunded. finally, while the un general assembly offers the international community a unique opportunity to take action against noncommunicable diseases, it is essential that prevention efforts also find a home in families, schools, workplaces and businesses. a healthier lifestyle must be promoted everywhere and by all actors.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i will continue from where catherine trautmann left off. firstly, spectrum is - as mrs trautmann said - a rare commodity, and above all a common commodity, like so many other things: air, climate, water, etc. it must therefore be managed collectively and under the direction of the public authorities. in other words, no one can own all or part of the radio spectrum or consider himself to be so. secondly, if we accept that spectrum is a com mon good and a scarce good, we should exploit it in the most efficient and flexible way possible. so for us, the starting point is to first understand what the current use of spectrum is. that is why we insist on an inventory of spectrum allocation, because the allocation of frequencies is one thing and the use we make of them is another. if we allocate entire bands of spectrum to be used at 2 percent of their capacity, i don't consider that to be very efficient use. but if it is scarce, we should use it effectively and, of course, under the cover of a decision by the public authorities. finally, the radio spectrum is a public good that knows no borders. i would like to make the link here, as mr hökmark has done, with the whole debate on the future of european integration. we, the citizens of europe, are faced in each of our countries with the selfishness and the struggle for prerogatives of the member states, which say: 'don't touch, europe has nothing to do with this!' no, spectrum is a commodity without borders. for us europeans, it is obvious that the appropriate level to deal with the problem - even in a subsidiarity approach - is of course the european level. i think we all have to try to overcome national selfishness in our own countries. these are the three points i wanted to share with you in this debate.
in writing. the situation is not serious, it is hopeless. this is the worst famine in 60 years that is currently ravaging the horn of africa and endangering the lives of 13.3 million people in somalia, ethiopia, kenya, eritrea and djibouti. clearly, the international community has not done enough to provide "timely" aid to the starving population. as early as the spring of 2011, the world food programme and the world bank were sounding the alarm about the growing malnutrition, directly affected by the volatility of global food prices. this message was finally heard in september. too late for a billion dollars worth of ridiculous aid. it is true that the unstable political situation does not make the work of ngos any easier and hinders the smooth delivery of aid. the european union is generous and must remain so, not only financially but also by placing this issue at the top of the agenda of the decision-making bodies: the g20 and the un. and to remind us that universal values require us to protect civilian populations at all times. especially in remote and under-resourced areas. that is humanistic greatness!
in writing. as co-author of the joint resolution on the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, i appreciated the favourable vote by the european parliament this afternoon. this is in anticipation of the un high level meeting on 19 september 2011 on chronic diseases, which account for 60% of all deaths worldwide, or 35 million people a year. the road map is known. the aim is to combat more effectively the determinants of life: sedentary lifestyle, excessive salt consumption, smoking, alcoholism... in short, to radically change our lifestyles in order to reverse the curve of the four most common non-communicable diseases: cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, cancer and diabetes. better and longer lives are within the reach of european societies. the european union and the 27 member states must provide the means to do so by maintaining quality health care and facilitating access for all. it is also important to anticipate new pandemics. i think of diseases caused by environmental pollution and chemical pollution. this should be the message delivered in unison by the european ministers of health and commissioner dalli in four days' time at the un.
mr president, i apologize for the interruption, but before i begin i would like to make an appeal concerning the case of rafah nached, a well-known syrian psychoanalyst in france, who was arrested in damascus last week - and of whom we have no news - while she was on her way to deliver her daughter in paris. she is 66 years old, very sick she has a heart attack and disappeared in syrian prisons. we'll ask mr. buzek to intervene, but you know there are many disappearances and if a name is not pronounced publicly, people disappear and are killed, like ghiyath matar. thank you for allowing me to make this appeal. (applause) i would like to thank
author. - mr president, this resolution is indeed a very political resolution. in fact, what is behind the clashes, the current conflict, is what was not resolved in the framework of the comprehensive peace agreement of 2005. this agreement provided for the holding of general elections in southern sudan before independence - held in april 2010 - and a referendum - held in january 2011 - but also provided that many other issues had to be resolved before that. i'm not talking about the sharing of oil, currency, the rights of the northern people who are in the south and the southern people who are in the north, what is called citizenship; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. in the end, the un and it was right recognized south sudan as a state and recognized its independence, but everything was left in the dust because there was no agreement. i think that we cannot make any progress on these issues without holding the referendum in the abyei region and the two popular consultations that had to be held in the blue nile and south kordofan regions. so we need political pressure from the international community to solve these problems. the fact is that the armies are on the ground, and they are not very well controlled, including, alas, the army of the south, the spla, which is not yet fully structured. i will not go back on the international criminal court arrest warrant against president bashir. of course, we have asked for this warrant to take effect and for mr bachir to appear before the tribunal in the hague. but this political question is still outstanding.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, we would first like to congratulate you on what you have been able to achieve so far, pending the conclusion of the budget debate. in any case, the envelope we are talking about, which is substantially increased on the one hand, and the simplification of administrative rules on the other, seem to us to be two developments which are favourable to a successful european research and innovation policy. i would just like to draw your attention to two points. first, the question of simplification: it seems to us of course important that the commission's administration should simplify its procedures. but i think it is mainly for the end users - researchers and companies who turn to the commission's desks in all their diversity - that the situation and the procedures need to be simplified. so we would like to keep this orientation towards customers, if i may put it that way, rather than an internal orientation. secondly, it is true that it is important that we are able to bring the results of our research to the market and therefore to be as good at innovation as we can be at research. we know that europe has progress to make in this area. we should avoid the reverse excess, i.e. putting the whole package on innovation and, above all, finally succeeding - whether through public-private partnerships or direct subsidies to a company - in favouring companies which, moreover, have the means to invest. we must be careful to avoid a kind of windfall, to avoid that companies which can invest in innovation receive an incentive they do not need to do so.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). taiwan continues to do surprisingly well economically and has managed to cope well with the financial crisis. i am also disappointed, of course, by the commission's very vague statement here. if we are to have a debate on our trade relations with taiwan with a view to strengthening those relations, it is necessary first to define and strengthen our political relationship with taiwan. we must recognize taiwan as a sovereign state, as a democratic country which has not always had an easy time maintaining that democracy because of the threat from the communist chinese mainland. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the european union makes it clear that threats to establish diplomatic relations with taiwan are unacceptable and out of date. as a first step, the european union and the member states should support taiwan in its application for membership of various international organizations - i am thinking in the first instance of the world health organization.
the european union is also committed to the development of tourism in the mediterranean region. i think this is a good timing for the first report on tourism since the new powers in the lisbon treaty. as the honourable members have already said, the european tourism sector generates many jobs and is an important engine for our economy, including that of flanders, the region i represent here. i am therefore pleased that this report makes proposals to further strengthen the competitiveness of the tourism sector and pays particular attention to the specific role of smes in this respect. as shadow rapporteur for my group, i organised a colloquium in parliament a few months ago where a number of positive practices in tourism policy were presented. it was strongly emphasised that an integral anchoring of quality, sustainability, participation and accessibility in the tourism sector can be a win-win situation for all those involved, and these principles also feature prominently in the report. i would like to say that the commission's communication does not yet set enough priorities. it is therefore crucial that the commission heeds parliament's call for a more integrated approach and proposes an integrated strategy next year, with an even stronger focus on the concrete added value that europe can bring to the policies already being pursued by the european regions and member states. if this is to be put into practice, this coordination of content must be reflected in the financial resources for tourism in the new multiannual financial plan. the report makes some very concrete suggestions in this respect. i refer to crisis management, because in emergency situations coordination and uniform information action in all member states is crucial. secondly: the labels. i think that further growth of brands should be prevented and the number of brands reduced. finally, i am very pleased that the report also asks the commission to examine the feasibility of a charter of tourist rights and responsibilities with principles such as accessibility, information, transparent pricing and compensation. finally, mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fidanza, and all the other shadow rapporteurs for the excellent cooperation they have shown.
in writing. the european consumer has the right to know where the products he uses come from. similarly, palestinian products must be recognized as such in order to promote palestinian economic development because, if there can be no sustainable development without peace and security, there will be no sustainable peace without economic development and poverty eradication. only a comprehensive approach based on economic development, governance, security and respect for human rights will enable palestine to progress along the path to political stability. the liberalisation of trade between the european union and palestine is an essential step towards the development of the palestinian economy. by opening the doors of the european market to palestinian products, we are moving forward on the road to the construction of a palestinian state.
in writing. the report calls for the budget of the common strategic framework (csf) to be doubled and for large-scale projects (such as iter, galileo and gmes) to be financed from autonomous budget lines outside the csf framework. the report also stresses the need to increase the participation of smes and young researchers. finally, it recalls the role of innovation and encourages the establishment of wider cooperation between universities, businesses and research institutes. the report fully endorses all the priorities of increasing the next budget for research and development, the ladder of excellence, synergies between research and development and the structural funds, and the competitiveness of the european union through increased participation of industry and smes. it was important to vote for it!
in writing. only six member states, germany, france, austria, denmark, finland and sweden, currently spend more than 2% of their gdp on investment in research and innovation. this is clearly a far cry from the europe 2020 strategy's target of investing 3% of european gdp in r&d. this is also the conclusion drawn by the matias report adopted this afternoon. i particularly welcome the clear commitment in our resolution to support innovation through the creation of a european investment bank specifically for smes and the financing of innovative projects. although it is often not the european money but the outcome of scientific projects that is lacking. as the president of the aalto centre for entrepreneurship aptly put it: "too often, european universities stick to the classic but outdated distinction between scientific research on the one hand and management training on the other. we need a new model. our researchers and students must become entrepreneurs". i am in favour of a genuine call for a change of mentality and a general rapprochement between universities and businesses throughout the european union, which will really put the research europe on the right track.
in writing. i voted for the report by my colleague jean-marie cavada because it aims to improve the concept of european schools and to do so it sets very precise political priorities. the european school system must adapt to new economic and social requirements, while remaining an inspirational model for national school systems, by promoting european citizenship, by encouraging the development of mobility and the learning of foreign languages.
in writing. there is no alternative but education if we are to provide a better life and a more promising future for the children of the world. it's a moral and ethical imperative. education is the foundation of prosperity. there is no economic, social, human progress without access to knowledge for all. the european schools were set up to provide education in their mother tongue to children who are not resident in their country of origin. more than 50 years after the creation of the first european school, the added value of this project has not been demonstrated. children leaving these institutions are not only polyglot but also open to other cultures and armed to enter education in line with their aspirations in an increasingly interdependent and globalised world. countries which do not provide the teachers essential to the proper functioning of these schools must realize that they are penalizing the children of their own citizens. let us not forget that we live in the age of knowledge. the link between education, vocational training, quality of education, research, innovation and the entrepreneurial world is crucial for the years to come.
in writing. solidarity with the world's most vulnerable is a core value of the eu. the creation of an enhanced eu disaster response capacity is the concrete expression of this solidarity. the creation of a single crisis management centre was essential to respond optimally to emergency situations by ensuring better european coordination and minimising red tape and duplication. as i have said many times before, particularly during the floods in pakistan and the earthquake in haiti, the barnier report was a perfect inspiration for the establishment of this mechanism. this resolution is echoed in the 2014-2020 financial perspective which states the need for systematic action in the face of the increase in natural and man-made disasters. humanitarian aid and civil protection are thus strengthened, thus responding to the needs of populations at risk and the demands of european citizens.
in writing. tourism, which contributes 10% to gdp and 12% to total employment, is the third largest socioeconomic activity in the european union. under the lisbon treaty (article 195 of the tfeu), the union is now competent to complement and coordinate the actions of the member states in the field of tourism. the european commission's communication of june 2010 provided for 21 actions to make the sector more competitive, including: promoting sustainable, responsible and quality tourism; facilitating sound business management by introducing european labels and encouraging projects and networks in the sector. with the adoption of this report, we welcomed the commission's strategy and called for integrated measures to further promote tourism in the union via the 'europe label', and to increase the visibility, quality, competitiveness, accessibility and diversification of the sector, while respecting subsidiarity and the environment. until then, have a good trip to europe!
in writing. − tourism in europe is one of the strongest economic sectors in many regions. europe's diversity must also be reflected in this eu policy: namely, the protection of traditions, heritage and nature, which is offered in many regions. between sea and mountain tourism, many regions have their own special assets which must not be lost in eu policy. as a resident of a border region, however, i would welcome some uniform standards, for example, for the evaluation of accommodation. cross-border cooperation could also concern standards that simplify or harmonise safety or accessibility of accommodation. in conclusion, i would like to stress that in the 2012 budget at least specific articles promote tourism in the sense of major cultural, industrial or natural routes in europe.
in writing. in a time of crisis, it is appropriate to reflect on the sectors of the economy that support the european union. tourism is one of these sectors, as it currently generates 5% of the union's gdp. this is a real boon for micro-enterprises and smes operating in this sector, provided, of course, that competitiveness is maintained. it is necessary to recall that access to the best available technologies is a necessary step to exchange good practices and promote products and destinations. similarly, programmes such as erasmus for young entrepreneurs should be promoted to help young people acquire new skills. it is imperative that these skills be recognised by the member states so that people in this sector no longer have any difficulty finding a job throughout the year.
in writing. the european parliament has delivered an ambitious message on this world tourism day. this year's theme is 'cultural convergence', and it is important to highlight the role of the tourism sector in spreading tolerance, respect for others and mutual understanding throughout the world. beyond the symbol, there are also the numbers. european tourism generates 60 billion in revenue and 10 million jobs. and as the fidanza report points out, the european commission must play its full role if europe is to maintain its leadership with 55% of international tourist flows, with three of its member states (france, spain and italy) ranked in the world's top five tourist destinations. it is therefore appropriate, as the european commission proposes, to monitor the european union's policies affecting tourism, in particular transport policy and consumer protection policy. and with competition raging more than ever, it is essential for the european union to remain competitive by continuing to promote its cultural heritage, particularly to the populations of the new economic powers such as china, brazil and india.
in writing. the report aims to halve the number of road deaths by 2020 in europe, to reduce by 60% the number of children under 14 killed on the roads, and to reduce by 40% the number of people seriously injured (with a life-threatening outcome). to this end, the european parliament asked the commission for a detailed 'catalogue' of measures, with a clear timetable and monitoring instruments, and for a mid-term evaluation. the report also attaches particular importance to the collection of high-quality and comparable scientific data on the causes and course of accidents and the injuries they cause, and to the implementation of the most harmonised guidelines possible.
in writing. strengthening road safety in europe and exchanging best practice and success stories is the ambition of this own-initiative report, which was voted on today by a very large majority in the european parliament, to reduce the very heavy toll of 35 000 lives lost every year on our roads. the challenge is immense, so many disparities exist in terms of infrastructure, training, rules, prevention policies and enforcement. there is also a cultural divide, especially in the use of alcohol, which has universal physiological effects. we welcome the various recommendations: progressive learning from the age of 17, awareness of road safety from an early age, the installation of alcohol locks on commercial vehicles, the wearing of reflective vests... we have nevertheless opposed paragraph 54 on the generalization of 'zones 30' to urban residential areas. because standardization has its limits, which reason does not ignore. the failure of the 30 zone imposed on the brussels pentagon is a striking example. the success of a zone 30 depends primarily on road improvements and the accompanying awareness raising. and to generalize the 30 zones is above all to take the risk of trivializing them where it is absolutely necessary.
in writing. two years after the global partnership on agriculture, food security and food was launched with great fanfare by the g8 heads of state at the l'aquila summit in 2009, the first results are still to come. the price of raw materials is skyrocketing, people in the horn of africa are starving, and the global financial crisis is taking away from us the basic right to food for all. the eu and the 27 member states remain, however, major political and financial actors, and the discussions on a new common food security policy are moving in the right direction. but is it up to the challenges of food security: unchecked population growth, pressures on natural resources and the adverse effects of climate change on agriculture? clearly, while it is important for the eu to provide a policy framework for the fight against world hunger, it is simply vital to make it a top priority. so that tomorrow, feeding all of humanity, with less water and land and three billion more people than the six of today, doesn't become an impossible task.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report by my colleague, gabriele zimmer, on a strategic framework of the european union to help developing countries to address food security challenges. the global food crisis, with nearly one billion people now facing it, is not only an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe but also a major threat to world peace and security. the urgency calls for the member states of the union to become immediately aware of the need to generate new investment in agriculture and rural development, to combat food speculation, to limit agrofuels, to ensure sufficient world stocks, to remove their own barriers to trade and to alleviate the debt of the countries most affected. according to projections, we should see an increase in the world's population, estimated at 9 billion people by 2050, with a 70% increase in food demand. to respond to this, land must be accessible to all, the land rights of small farmers must be protected in order to prevent a new agrarian colonialism, in particular through the land grabbing, which has become, in a few years, a scandalous reality.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all, i am very pleased to see the man who has been at our side during so many years of battles in the european council, jean-claude juncker, who has always defended the community and european cause with us. i have a question about the economic government. you know that mrs merkel and mr sarkozy have proposed the establishment of a european economic government which meets twice a year. i don't know what your experience as prime minister is, jean-claude, but i thought that we should meet at least twice a week, or even if necessary, twice a day, but not twice a year. is it also your view that a european economic government cannot be organized with full-time staff, on the initiative of the european commission rather than an intergovernmental organization? i also heard you say: 'yes, the eurogroup must be chaired by a full-time president.' do you not think that the eurogroup could also be chaired by the commissioner responsible for economic and monetary affairs, rather than starting to invent other institutional "bubbles", as is being done now, which will solve nothing, because the financial markets are waiting for a complete economic and fiscal union. only in this way will we overcome the crisis surrounding the euro and not by means of 'institutional games' aimed at maintaining the power of the member states of the union on the basis of intergovernmentalism.
on behalf of the alde group. mr prime minister, don't you think we are exaggerating a little bit? we have a president of the eurogroup. if it cannot be the commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, it is the president of the eurogroup, independent; it's a personality. we have the president of the commission who says, "i manage economic and monetary affairs with the commissioner. we have the commissioners for economic and monetary affairs, we have the president of the european council". mrs merkel and mr sarkozy say: "ah, he is going to be the president of the euro". so at the moment we have at least four, maybe five personalities in europe who are looking after the euro. but we have never been in such a bad position with the euro, and that is because there are five people who are dealing with it. i think we should solve this problem first. i am not in favour of solving all problems in an institutional way, but these problems must be solved as soon as possible. and i think and i hope and i am quite convinced that luxembourg can be on the side of those, with belgium, with the netherlands, who will defend the community method against these proposals. mr rutte has proposed - you may not know this, mr schulz - that a commissioner be appointed specifically to safeguard the application of the stability pact; it's a turnaround on their part, and i welcome it.
mr president, dear jean-claude juncker, i would simply like to ask you for your opinion, not as president of the eurogroup, nor as prime minister of luxembourg, but as a european citizen. what is your feeling about our collective capacity to take the necessary step forward - and i think it is important - towards a europe, perhaps not the united states of europe as some have suggested, but in any case a more federal europe? everyone knows that monetary union without political union does not work. what are our chances as european citizens to achieve this?
on behalf of the s&d group. mrs ashton, let me go back for a moment to what happened in new york at the general assembly. you have dealt with these matters briefly and i would simply like to say to you today that my group supports president abbas's legitimate request to the un. these words are very simple. (applause) i would like to thank and with them, i've said almost everything. we also regret that it has taken so long to see this move through to the un and hope that europe will finally be able to speak clearly and with one voice on this difficult subject. do not think, madam president, that in the political groups the simple phrase 'we support president abbas's request' has been immediately accepted. the fear of a misunderstanding with israel, whose security has always been unquestionable to us. the fear of failure of the palestinian initiative in the council, followed by a possible outbreak of violence in the arab streets and possible economic sanctions against the palestinian authority, and american pressure, all made our decision difficult. and then what finally won out was a kind of honesty, political courage of the parliamentarians. yes, the palestinians have a right to that membership. the time has come, 63 years after the same general assembly recognized the state of israel, 12 years after the berlin declaration pledging to recognize the state of palestine when the time comes. the time has come to support those in palestine who have chosen the side of peace, of negotiation, of the creation of viable institutions. the time has come, for palestine is shrinking like a sore throat. it is no longer the palestine of 1947, nor the palestine of the oslo accords of 1993, nor the palestine of a few years ago. the israeli government's policy of the done deal, the settlements, the land grabs, the wall, all this is gangrenous in palestine. it's an emergency. even today, the decision of the israeli government to create 1,100 new housing units in gilo makes the two-state solution soon impossible. the time has come. because the arab spring has given rise to so much hope that it is unthinkable that europe should say to the palestinians: "this spring is not for you. wait a second. you will have it, as the berlin declaration says, at the appropriate time". palestinians today are dying without knowing anything but the occupation. for all these reasons, the socialist and democratic members of parliament today wholeheartedly support the request by mahmoud abbas to the un. may their courage - because some have difficult histories - may their courage inspire you, mrs ashton, when you defend our position to european governments. there are times when european values and commitments come first. (applause) i would like to thank
the palestinian authority has thrown the club into the chicken coop with its candidacy for membership of the united nations, because fine words are no longer enough. in all likelihood, all un member states, including, of course, the eu member states, will have to decide their position on this matter in the foreseeable future, within a few weeks. the united states has already announced that it will veto the resolution in the security council. israel argues that this initiative is a unilateral act that is contrary to the oslo accords. as regards unilateral initiatives, i would point out on behalf of my whole group that the construction of settlements in occupied territory, the destruction of hundreds of palestinian homes and the construction of a wall on palestinian territory are also unilateral acts, which are also contrary to international law. (applause from the left) i do not wish to speak in the name of blaming. on behalf of my group, madam high representative, i call on you and all the member states to work together, through contacts and negotiations, to ensure that the palestinians can achieve a better, indeed the best possible, status in the united nations itself by the end of the current session of the un general assembly at the latest. we too believe that the palestinians have a right to a state of their own. we also support your efforts to achieve a lasting peace agreement between israel and palestine before the end of next year. the internationally accepted parameters of such an agreement are known. two states living side by side in peace, recognizing each other's right to exist on the basis of the 1967 borders, which can only be changed by mutual agreement, and with jerusalem as a shared capital. the problem of refugees must also be solved in a humane way. if this were not such a serious matter, i would say that the belgian colleagues of this parliament, myself included, know that it is not enough to know the parameters of a problem in order to find solutions easily. but time is of the essence. the changed political conditions in various countries of the middle east call for a rapid solution, not to mention the human suffering that has been afflicting israel and palestine for so long. madam high representative, the belgians are working to find a solution and i hope that you will succeed in doing so in the same spirit. we wish you every success.
madam president, madam high representative, the palestinian people deserve to have a proper state at last. i think that in principle we are all, or rather all of us in this house, in agreement to support this legitimate aspiration. i would even go so far as to say that i can understand the arrogance of mahmoud abbas who, by breaking down the door of the security council, is throwing the sponsors of the peace process - the united states, the quartet and the european union - into a corner and embarrassing them with a maximalist but almost inescapable demand for a stalemate in negotiations rather than a status quo, and the - to use a euphemism - frivolity of the current israeli government. that said, i remain firmly convinced that after sixty years of conflict there is no shortcut to peace today, that it must be negotiated between those who have been fighting for so long over the same land. ten years ago, the israeli minister of education proposed that the poems of mahmoud darwich be included in the israeli school curriculum so that tomorrow, or even today, everyone sees things through the eyes of the other. it is now up to them to share their promised land with this timetable and urgency of the window of opportunity that we specify in paragraph 2 of our resolution. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i am very sorry, but as i said last time about the blue cards that have been sent to us, i do not think that this is a case of ad hominem trials, which is generally the case. i am a little disappointed that this is happening today within the same political groups and that the question i have just been asked is not about what i said, because i think he has shown exemplary restraint and a willingness to compromise and move forward which should be applauded. i sometimes wonder if we were to send some of the speakers in this house to negotiate peace there themselves, would it go a little faster than it is at the moment? i have some doubts about that. so, i'm sorry, i think the topic is not relevant to the speech i gave. and i am not sure that mrs ashton will also be speaking on this matter.
madam high representative, we have waited for decades. it is high time that we acknowledge colour and really offer the palestinians a perspective on a stable and economically viable context. the only way to do that is to start with recognition. so recognition of the palestinian state too, because that will go hand in hand with hope. the clock has been ticking for many years. a time bomb of frustration must be defused. i think that in the context of the arab spring and the rapid geopolitical changes in the region, this could create a momentum that could lead to lasting peace. because that is what we all want to achieve in the end, of course. of course, there are negotiations to be had. but i personally think that the strongest party should make the first move, such as the move to stop building settlements. that could start the process. finally, let us say that the request for recognition was not a secret and that it is regrettable that the international community has in fact anticipated far too little, that it has waited too long to find a solution which forces the parties to the table.
i have received, in accordance with rule 110 (2), six motions for resolutions. (') the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 29 september 2011, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions. see minutes of the sitting.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the president of the commission for his speech on the state of the union and also for a number of his proposals. let us be very blunt about this. as you have recognised, the state of the union is bad. let us also repeat here in this house that this crisis is not about greece and greece’s debt. this is a crisis about the euro, about the european union and, in fact, a crisis today about the existence – the vital existence – of the european union. we are confronted today (shouting from the chamber) – yes, the only difference is that you gave bad answers to that question, that is the problem – because the real questions we have to ask are: are we able to stand together in this crisis? are we able to stand united in this crisis? are we able to show real solidarity in this crisis, and have we the vision to do so, the courage to do so and the political leadership in the european union to do so? these are the questions that we need to face today. let us start with the state of the union. the state of the union is bad, but i think we have to face today’s reality. we are in the middle – not at the end – of a crisis, really in the centre of it. look at the reality. mistrust of banks has again risen over recent days and weeks. markets and stocks are at the lowest level since 2008. the international monetary fund yesterday lowered its growth forecast for europe for next year to only 1.1%, down from 1.6%. some economists are already talking about recession in the union. finally – this is important because we will come back to this later on – spreads: the tensions inside our markets have never been so high. before the financial crisis, the spreads in the eurozone – that is the difference between the average of the obligations, the bonds of other countries (and germany) – were only 19 – less than 20 – basic points. today the spreads are ten times higher. the average of the bonds in the eurozone – nt bonds – is more than 200 basic points, with, naturally, greece at 2 149 basic points of difference – a 21%-higher interest rate. in portugal there is a difference of more than 1 000, as there is in spain. in italy there is a difference of 400 basic points. these are tensions that are not sustainable. this must be solved not yesterday, not today but in a short time period because it is unsustainable to continue like this. there is a second question that we have to answer today. what solutions were provided for this crisis – mainly by the council, as has been indicated, and mainly by the member states? they were half measures, measures that have been seen as too little, too late. you will remember that the first council initiative after the start of the crisis in december 2009 was to announce a european solution to the crisis by launching eur 30 billion of bilateral loans to solve the crisis. that was the big idea in february 2010 of the member states and the council. no european answers, no: bilateral loans to a single country in the south of europe. that should create the solution. what we saw was the crisis becoming more and more difficult to overcome. i should say that the highlight of this bad approach to the crisis has been the casino deal of the real world. the decision was taken between france and germany not to strengthen the stability pact but to weaken the commission’s proposal on the stability pact. we were in the middle of the crisis on the stability pact and then the member states came forward with a proposal, saying that they had a deal in deauville, near the casino – which is not such a bad one, everybody wins there – and in the end the outcome was that we lowered the sanctions, we lowered the penalties and you could simply continue the game inside the stability pact. this has ruined the stability pact. so, mr barroso, the most important conclusion of today has to be the message that you gave. you gave it here, very well and to much applause, but now you have to repeat it in another place, somewhere in brussels, at the council. i am no longer there, but i am sure we will know what you say there. you will have to repeat it there, telling them that the intergovernmental method is a bad method that cannot work. and why can it not work? because it needs unanimity; the polish know about that, as poland disappeared in the 18th century because of the unanimity rule in the polish parliament: that is history and reality. the same could happen in europe if we continue with this unanimity rule. we have to abolish it. colleagues, this is the real problem. why is there such a problem in this crisis? because the member states are reluctant to transfer new sovereignty and powers to the european union. we all know that the only way out of this crisis is a new transfer of powers to the european union and to the european institutions. that is at stake. mr barroso, i am pleased with a number of the initiatives that you have announced today. they are key to my group. you have said that we shall take an initiative in the coming weeks on eurobonds. you have already found a new name: stability bonds. no problem. you can call them what you like – eurobonds, stability bonds – if they are bonds to mutualise debts and, as you have indicated, to make and create more discipline – not only solidarity – in the union. very well, we look forward to this in the coming weeks. you have said that we shall put proposals on the table to organise economic governance beyond the six pack. i think this is necessary and is a first step to real economic and fiscal union. you have also said that you should reflect on the external single representation of the eurozone at international level. however, what i am asking is that you go further than this and that in the coming two weeks, at the european council on 17 october, you put a global plan on the table of the council. why do you have to do that? because otherwise they take their own initiatives in the council. you have the right of initiative; they do not. if you do not use your right of initiative by putting a document on the table with these different initiatives in it, others will fill the vacuum. this should be done on three specific topics. first of all, the organisation of the real economic government inside the commission. you have said here that we are the real economic government, but the reality is different. mr juncker, mr van rompuy, mr rehn, mr barroso, the president of the european central bank, we have at least five people who represent europe. we need one, and it can only be a senior commissioner that you have to appoint. make him european minister of finance and then all this discussion of who is representing the euro would be over. secondly, i missed one important element in your proposals. there is a european plan to recapitalise the european banks. the problem of the european banks has not been solved, and we shall not recover from this recession or the stagnation or economic downturn if we do not first of all recreate trust between the banks and recapitalise them. only a european solution can solve this. i know that mrs merkel refused that proposal on 4 october 2008. she heard on the radio that there were some problems with a german bank. so you see what history can signify: if she had heard that news maybe three hours before, she would have accepted the solution of a european rescue plan for banks. but let us come back to this. mr barroso, my request to you is that you put all this in a document on the table of the council in two weeks’ time. we cannot do it as a european parliament. the european council cannot do it. you have the power, you have the right of initiative, and i can tell you that this whole parliament will be behind you if you take such an action. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
i think they have that right, they have their sovereignty, but i think the best way today to defend the interest of france and to defend the interest of germany is to defend the interest of the european union and to give more power to europe. that is their interest. (loud applause)
mr president, mr president of the commission, you have found a tone that the indignados of the puerta del sol would not have denied when it comes to the banking sector. we would have liked to have seen the same indignation when, on 21 july, you accepted the conditions imposed by the banks on you for the second aid package for greece. we would have liked to have seen that same indignation when you adopted new rules for banks. the crd iv is a pale copy of basel iii. when are you going to force the banks to separate the casino banks from the banks that actually finance the economy. finally, i would like to refer to the two figures you mentioned on the financial transaction tax. you say that the european citizens have committed themselves to 4.6 trillion and you proudly announce that the financial transaction tax will bring in perhaps 50 billion a year. i don't see why that should be a cause for joy. i do not see in this, at any rate, any sign of genuine indignation at those who are setting europe on fire and blood.
in writing. with this six-pack of measures, we are laying the foundations for a strong european economic policy and creating a buffer against a possible recurrence of financial deregulation. we are laying the foundations for a sound and strong single currency. these are the measures which will enable us, europe, to emerge from this crisis stronger. it is crucial that the european commission takes the lead in this, that it closely monitors the governments' full compliance with these measures and that it calls member states to account for any deviations. on the basis of these clear rules, we must now take further steps to accelerate the european economy. the european bonds and project bonds that president barroso is announcing here today can play a crucial role in this. the launch of a financial transaction tax (ftt) is also an important step forward. europe is taking the lead and creating a very important instrument (€55 billion a year) to stimulate the economy and employment. the introduction of a ftt is also a strong political signal to european citizens. europe is thus making it clear that the financial institutions themselves must also make a substantial contribution in times of severe financial and economic turbulence.
in writing. - the federalists in the european parliament are exploiting the problems in some eurozone member states to impose a centralised economic policy on all the other member states. this is another way of disempowering the democratic judgement of the electorate. the sovereignty of the member states is being further eroded and the democratic deficit is widening. the principle of subsidiarity is virtually gone.
in writing. - in the current context of the financial and economic crisis, it is relatively incomprehensible that the council appears in the financial debates as an addition of various national interests, rather than coming to common positions. budgetary discipline is one of these sensitive issues: in good times, countries demand this discipline, in bad times they want to deviate from it. the report therefore gives parliament clear signals to achieve the necessary stability.
in writing. - unlike the other reports voted on today, which impose a centralised economic policy on all the euro-zone member states, i abstained on this report because it expressly states the principle that member states which manipulate and falsify their budget figures, as greece has done, should be sanctioned for this. instead of always choosing to flee, it would be better to alert and hold to account those member states which do not fulfil their obligations.
in writing. i voted for the excellent report by my colleague sylvie goulard on budgetary surveillance in the euro area. it is a key component of the legislative package on economic governance reform, known in european parlance as the 'six pack'. the report's strong proposal is: 'member states whose currency is the euro should pool [...] per cent of sovereign debt in the form of solidarity commitments (euro area securities). " this is the idea that european liberals have been pushing for months, calling for the creation of eurobonds, i.e. debt mutualisation and the ability for countries currently in austerity to borrow at reasonable rates on the markets. of course, sharing debts does not make them go away. it goes without saying that greece, like other countries at risk, must first commit to a clean-up of its public finances. but the greatest strength of eurobonds, beyond the reduction in the financial costs borne by the member states, is certainly the promotion of the euro as a safe-haven currency. a credible alternative to the dollar, as 25% of china's foreign exchange reserves are already held in the european currency.
in writing. today, defending the european union means calling for more economic and budgetary governance and advocating the sacred union. the haglund report, which was adopted this afternoon by 395 votes to 64 with 201 abstentions, mainly from left-wing parties, shows the latter's aversion to discipline and sanctions, since that is what this regulation is all about, which aims to provide solutions to the excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro zone! the european parliament has wisely decided to provide for flexible sanctions in the event of non-compliance by member states with the recommendations of the commission and the council on the major economic aggregates, which are mainly income, investment, consumption, the unemployment rate and inflation. for my part, i welcome this far-reaching reform of the governance framework based on the community method, which goes far beyond the traditional budgetary surveillance and ensures greater independence for the commission in monitoring the economic policies of the member states. only the coherence of the 27 macroeconomic policies and the reduction of fiscal and social competition will enable the european union to return to the path of sustainable growth and jobs.
in writing. i welcome the adoption this afternoon of the report on the economic governance package, now known as the 'six pack' in european parlance. a decisive vote and a step forward towards european economic governance, towards a more federal europe too. this package of measures will not save the euro from the current difficulties. but these structural measures are drawing lessons from the current crisis and from the lax fiscal policies of the past 20 years. the ford report on strengthening the budgetary frameworks of the member states helps to set the bar and draws particular lessons from the greek case. in essence, it consists in imposing more stringent and binding rules on the member states in the preparation of their national budgets. it also imposes the independence of national statistical institutes and provides for penalties in the event of falsification of figures transmitted to the european institutions, an imperative necessity, given the extent to which greece tampered with its statistics at the time of its accession to the euro area in 2001.
in writing. i regret that the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people are still not fully respected within the european union (including their right to physical integrity, to private and family life, to freedom of opinion and expression, to non-discrimination and to free movement). this resolution - which i voted for - calls on the member states and the commission to do all they can to close the gaps that still exist today and asks the commission to draw up a detailed roadmap against homophobia, transphobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity.
mr president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, this is not a debate, this is a series of monologues all going in the same direction, because we all share the same opinion with some differences of opinion on the modalities. but it must be said again that europe is not responsible, that it is the governments of the six countries which have already been mentioned, but it must be said again. the governments of germany, the united kingdom, the netherlands, the czech republic, denmark and sweden, which are not among the poorest countries in the european union, but are among the most selfish or are becoming so. and what we really need to do is to make these countries understand that they have to take responsibility. do they want to be responsible, guilty and complicit in not helping people in danger? because that's what this is about. the programme deserves to be maintained, especially in times of crisis and for the 18 million poorest european citizens. in three months, it's winter. we must find solutions, of course, for the period after 2014, but especially for 2012 and 2013, in a transitional way. and that is what we have to do, we have to take the budget away from agriculture and transfer it to social cohesion under a line entitled 'funds for the most deprived'. europe must not turn a blind eye. the member states are of course jointly responsible, but europe cannot avoid this very important social aspect.
mr president, six member states hold in their hands the fate of 18 million europeans in need. six member states who claim to be doing nothing more than legal business. the legal system is one thing, humanism and political choices are another. we cannot but express our anger at those who remain deaf to the alarm cries of the organizations which help the most deprived. and do we, the members of the european parliament, representatives of all citizens, want a europe where national egos set policy, with little regard for the nationals of states in budgetary difficulties? there is no question of renationalizing this aid. no, you can't! let us maintain this programme, let us give it a stronger legal basis, but let us not let down those who, in the immediate future, in 2012, rely on this aid, in times of particularly difficult crisis.
in writing. clearly, european solidarity is at risk. the reluctance of some member states to provide aid to greece has shown this. this is a new example of the peda case. the legal argument put forward by some is just a pretext; it is a question of political will. parliament has demonstrated its willingness to help the most deprived, through its initiatives on the subject, as well as on poverty reduction, a fundamental objective of the europe 2020 strategy. i am glad that you have taken the initiative with the same will. parliament and the 18 million europeans in need were counting on you to convince the council to accept these proposals finally and quickly, whether in the agricultural or social policies. it's a necessity. it's a matter of dignity.
in writing. the stubborn and unyielding attitude of six member states threatens to push millions of europeans deeper into poverty. just when more and more europeans are being hit by the banking crisis and needing food aid, these countries are turning off the tap. not because there is no money, but because they feel that this is a social policy which is better left to the member states alone. this is typical of a liberal vision of europe which is only economic but seldom social. they have still not understood that a strong european social policy guaranteeing minimum rights benefits every member state! it is not surprising, then, that the countries which are the most obstructive are those which impose a harsh austerity policy without regard for the social consequences. it is no coincidence that these countries are openly questioning european solidarity for a long time. the fact that these countries are so brutally and irresponsibly undermining the praiseworthy work of the many volunteers in food banks, ngos and charitable organisations in the european year of volunteers is a signal. they should better take a lesson from the selfless commitment of thousands of volunteers to build a better and more united society.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the vast majority of those people from north africa who want to come to europe are not refugees, by the way, but economic opportunists who usually pay very large sums of money to the smugglers who bring them to europe. so let us not be naive, because a great many of those people are anything but suckers and anything but refugees. on the contrary, it is precisely these people who are most needed for the reconstruction of their own country. apparently, there's something seriously wrong with this whole so-called arab spring. because it seems that many north africans themselves have less confidence in their new leaders than we have from the european union. how else would you explain the continuing flow of emigration towards lampedusa and europe, mrs malmström? we must therefore make it clear that european support for the new regimes in north africa, including tunisia, is only possible if the flow of immigration finally stops. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
mrs sargentini, we know very well that the vast majority of these are people who are not political refugees but who want to emigrate for reasons other than the fact that they are being politically persecuted in their own country. there are very serious problems there, i do not deny that, but i think it is our duty and our task to ensure that from europe all kinds of impulses are given to those countries to improve the situation on the ground instead of always giving people the status of political refugees which does not correspond to reality. because if we are to follow your logic consistently, we should actually bring the entire population of those countries to europe. this is, of course, absolutely impossible. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
i can only refer back to what i said earlier. i think we are making the problems here in europe worse and worse by bringing more and more of these people here instead of taking them back to their own region. this is a totally different approach from the one currently being followed in europe. this is a fact. we have to look at things in a completely different way, because every person who comes here under a resettlement program or with political refugee status is leading to new immigration, a new flow of so-called political refugees.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a very good one, and i think it is a good one. but these are facts that we must acknowledge and that require an effective and lasting response mechanism. i am therefore pleased that the commission has proposed that the fund should be included in the future financial perspective of the union, as we wished in the sure report, and that the criteria for allocating funds should be extended until 2013 because of the crisis, as we wished in the report by the committee on budgets on its future. but we must not stop there, because since the adoption of these reports during the mobilisation procedures we have seen the need for further developments which are reflected in the motion for a resolution and which will be incorporated in a future review of the functioning of the fund. i should like to emphasize three of them in particular: in order to avoid the currently too long mobilisation procedures, the egf must have sufficient appropriations to avoid having to transfer unused funds from other programmes. the social partners and local authorities must be involved and the egf must be integrated in a coherent way into a comprehensive european policy on restructuring.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, thank you for the flexibility which allows me to speak later. first of all, i should like to thank the commission for its statement and for the successful outcome of this case. you know that three years ago parliament was strongly opposed to the introduction of rules of the game around the body scanner because at that time you were basically asking us carte blanche to do what the member states wanted without going into detail. a lot has happened in the meantime. we've had a number of tests, pilot projects, at a number of airports. the technology has evolved enormously and there has also been good consultation between parliament and your services. you know that we adopted a resolution a few months ago setting out our conditions. you've practically taken over the whole thing. it is important that the body scanner is not mandatory at airports. it's still an option. it also remains possible for people to refuse that scan and to opt for an alternative screening method. our public health requirements have been taken into account: scanners with ionising radiation are prohibited. in the area of privacy, there are strong conditions attached to it. i am thinking in particular of the fact that the security staff are not allowed to make eye contact with the person passing through the scanner, that the images are not stored, that they are also blurred. we would have preferred to have had standard figures - that is a small nuance that makes a difference - but overall i think we can support these proposals and we as a parliament must be consistent. you have taken our position into account. well, let's go for that, then.
i would like to ask mrs ludford, mr president, about the distinction between the stick images and the blurred images. does she not agree that if the legislation says that security officers must not make eye contact and therefore sit in a separate room and face images that are unrecognizable, there is still a sufficient guarantee to guarantee the privacy of the people involved, certainly also in combination with the other conditions we have imposed.
in writing. the palestinian and israeli peoples both aspire to peace. they both have the same right to live in their state, on their own land, to develop their country and give a future to their children. this conflict has been going on for decades. feelings of despair, humiliation, and rebellion have been engraved in the hearts and minds of many. but everyone feels that this situation can no longer continue. it takes political courage. for where poverty breeds despair, injustice and humiliation breed violence. we are at a crucial moment which may require a change in the right direction. the minds must now prepare themselves for compromise and a negotiated solution. the interests of countries and peoples demand it. where there is humanity, there is the possibility of building a relationship, a dialogue that opens the door to compromise in respect of mutual interests. by giving others the rights that belong to them, we give ourselves rights this quote by john fitzgerald kennedy has a deeper resonance in this part of the world today than ever before.
in writing. − although the eu has an interest in articulating its vision for the protection of nature and therefore of man with one voice, this very broad subject has rarely led to a broad eu consensus. it is no wonder, then, that the eu has little clout at the global level to enforce its ideas, and it is almost absurd to demand the highest standards of protection and the strongest reductions in greenhouse gases, among other things, in europe. we must equate these issues with those of economic agreements, i.e. in all international agreements environmental standards and social standards must be considered as the main part of the agreement and not as a subchapter. this will only be possible if all countries make the same demands in their bilateral agreements with non-eu countries.
in writing. i voted against this request for an opinion because if any country is making efforts to progress on the path of democracy, it is morocco. voting for this request for an opinion from the court of justice was a very negative political signal on the eve of the parliamentary elections scheduled for 7 october 2011 to implement the reforms launched by the king of morocco. these elections are of crucial importance for the future of the country, its economy and the credibility of the government. this approach was unsuccessful in more than one way: • it called into question the previous legal advice given by the european institutions and the united nations; • it could be used as a precedent; • it called on the european court of justice to intervene in a matter concerning the sovereignty of states; (ii) it constituted an indiscriminate political interference when it is known that the dispute between morocco and western sahara is still not settled; • it concerned an agreement concluded for one year, with the risk that the court would actually deal with the matter when the agreement was no longer in force; • it implied a blockage of all deliberations in the ep.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, european politics have certainly changed if we are using mr cameron to defend our cause! yet why not? it is the presence of a coalition partner that explains such a huge change. they are asking for an economic and fiscal union, mr swoboda: that is the big change. if, as has been said, the british government is asking to have a more integrated europe – and that seems to be what they are asking for – then it is in their interests too. let us recognise that. mr barroso, we now have certainty that you will put a global plan before the council. i presume you will do that by tabling a document at the european council on 23 october. it would be good if members of parliament could also receive a copy of that document in advance so that we can see what aspects of the commission proposals the european leaders are accepting and what they are still not accepting. mr barroso, i will ask for your attention on three points, where i think you have to reinforce your proposals, and you still have quite some time before 23 october to do that. the first is that you have to change the rules of the european financial stability facility – because it does not work. a unanimity rule in a rescue system cannot work, as we have learned today in slovakia and a number of other countries. you need to make it clear not only that a majority voting system is needed but also that the funds for the system must be increased. we have to help member states in difficulties; we have to recapitalise the banks; we have to help countries that have insufficient liquidity. so you must tell the truth, and the truth is that we have to triple – at least triple – the funds in the efsf, otherwise it will not be convincing to the financial markets. that is the first point that needs to be made on 23 october: you should tell the council that you want to change the efsf, that there should be majority voting and that the funds must be at least tripled. then you will have real firepower, and not merely a ‘firewall’ against the financial markets. the second point concerns eurobonds. we know what the solution will be in the end because what the efsf will do is to create eurobonds covered by the european central bank – and who do you think is covering the capital of the european central bank? the member states of the eurozone! it is exactly the same system, so come forward with the green paper as quickly as possible. a few weeks ago, you said that you would come forward with the green paper in a few weeks. a few minutes ago, you said it would be by the end of the year. i know that still means a few weeks, but i am asking you to move as quickly as possible because, in the end, that is the only way to convince the markets that we have created real solidarity and real discipline in the eurozone. my third and last point is recapitalisation of the banks. mr barroso, you have indicated a number of aspects of that operation. our parliament is asking for a european plan for recapitalisation. do not make the mistake of 2008 when, at the elysée palace on 4 october, some member states – and mrs merkel was involved here – refused a european plan for recapitalisation of the banks. mrs merkel thought that no german bank would have to be rescued. a few minutes later, in the car, she received information that there was also a german bank that had difficulties. we need a european plan and not, as you said earlier, action by the national governments in the first instance. no: it is at european level that we have to decide which banks to help and with what money. the national governments can then come in with money if the efsf does not have the possibility of doing so, but it has to be a european plan, not a coordination of national plans. so do not repeat the errors that were made in october 2008.
mr president, mr president of the commission, i would like to return to the question of the recapitalisation of the banks. you have rightly drawn attention to the conditionality which must be attached to this recapitalisation. you said, in any case, that the private sector must contribute first. you said no bonuses, no dividends, as long as this year is on, and you reiterated the issue of the financial transaction tax. i'm with you on that. i'm asking you to be consistent. i ask you to insist that these same conditionalities apply to all banks that are still receiving public support today - and there are many of them - but i also ask you to ensure that these same conditionalities apply to all banks that will not meet the new basel iii requirements. we have a very long transition period, far too long. well, as long as this transitional period is in force, i think the conditions you have set out must apply. finally, i think it's important to address the root of the problem. some people said that today. i think we are waiting for your commission on the question of this famous casino, and it is true that it has so far disappointed us. today, derivatives markets are 30 times the size of the real economy. you have to isolate this casino, which means you have to separate the banking business, before you can actually close it. this must be translated into much more ambitious measures on the derivatives markets. so far we have the emir regulation, we have the cds issue, and on this point i think that your commission has not shown the ambition that you want to be the bearer of today.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a postponed summit, and i hope that postponement is a sign of ambition, because we need ambition. the commission has understood that. in the week of the vote on the six-pack, which, in keeping with good polish tradition, has become a veritable copernican revolution, president barroso, as a committed european, has put forward an ambitious state of the union and today he has presented us with his road map. parliament has understood this too and will make it clear in a short resolution tomorrow that the cautious, step-by-step approach which may be good in ordinary times is not a solution in this particular time of crisis. only a comprehensive crisis plan, with both acute and structural and institutional measures, will be able to break the cycle of mistrust. i hope that we, the members of parliament, can come together to adopt a strong resolution. i expect the president of the commission to speak with the same courage and conviction at the european summit as he has here, and i ask the heads of state and government to stop proclaiming that we are all interdependent and to act consistently in this regard. we must act consistently, that is to say, act quickly by agreeing on a european comprehensive plan to really get us out of this crisis and to put an end to a union which is increasingly being driven by markets and uncontrolled rating agencies. the european council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am not surprised, mr president, by the crocodile tears that have already been shed here, because nowhere is the gap between the citizens and european politics more spectacular than when we talk about the disappearance of frontiers. we all know that bulgaria and romania are still facing very serious problems, such as organized crime and corruption. and these are the problems which will by definition be spread over the other member states when internal frontiers are abolished. there is also the problem that bulgaria still needs to take a number of measures to improve cooperation with greece and turkey in the field of border management. the problem of mass illegal immigration through turkey is well known. the countries which oppose the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area do so not only in their own national interest but also in the interest of all the other member states of the european union, because the schengen area can only function if there is confidence that all the member states fully comply with all the conditions. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
i should like to say to my colleague, mr president, that i am not dutch but flemish, but we do speak the same language. i have therefore not spoken to representatives of dutch interest groups doing business in bulgaria and romania. i understand the people who do, and i agree with what mr van dalen said, namely that we must be extra strict in any future enlargement of the schengen area, because we have had very serious problems. i would encourage the two member states in question today to make every effort to join as soon as possible, but in accordance with the rules. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
my country is no better at managing immigration flows than other countries in the european union, quite the opposite. but that's not what this is about. i think it is important that the rules are applied in the same way everywhere and that there is very great concern in public opinion in europe about too many flows of illegal immigrants in relation to immigration. that in any new step towards the enlargement of the schengen area we must ensure very carefully that all the conditions are met. it is the member states who decide, the european council and the member states represented on it. those are the rules, and those rules must be respected.
this concludes the one-minute speeches.
the agenda calls for the report by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the subscription by the european union of additional shares in the capital of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) following the decision to increase its capital (com (2011) 0034 - c7-0038/2011 - 2011/0014 (cod)) (a7-0227/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 13 october, at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report by mr skinner, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on insurance guarantee schemes (com (2010) 0370) - 2011/2010 (ini)) (a7-0243/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 13 october, at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the application of the principle of subsidiarity after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon by michael theurer, alexandra thein, silvana koch-mehrin, andrew duff, on behalf of the alde group (o-000230/2011 - b7-0622/2011).
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. - the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97) for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas; that is a work that is not in its infancy, but has been in progress for some time. we have seen the court of auditors' report a few years ago, which very explicitly pointed out a number of shortcomings in the system. we then adopted an own-initiative report on this, which eventually became the bowles report, to which the rapporteur also refers, and which made a whole series of recommendations, which i hope will be implemented. the system does indeed have many weaknesses, leading to massive fraud. it is estimated at between 80 and 100 billion euros, an immense sum. it also accounts for a large proportion of the total tax fraud in the european union, estimated at between eur 200 and 250 billion. if we know that vat carousel fraud, vat fraud in general, accounts for 80 to 100 billion of that, then i think that this should be a sufficient incentive to act. in this context, crossborder fraud is paramount. so there is a need for cross-border cooperation. that means cooperation between the administrations of the member states, cooperation with europol, cooperation with eurojust, cooperation also with olaf. that is one of the recommendations we in the committee on budgetary control are very happy to make. i thank the rapporteur and the whole committee on economic and monetary affairs for having taken up a large part of my opinion in paragraphs 33 to 40. that is an important takeover and i thank the rapporteur and the committee for it. it is very rare for a piece of advice to be taken so seriously. it is therefore a question of crossborder cooperation and we must ensure that the member states are made more aware of the responsibility and risks of this type of fraud. i believe that there is also a need for a cross-border, more uniform definition of vat carousel fraud. i've spoken to a lot of people in the field, i've spoken to a lot of inspectors, and there was one explicit hint: ensure a comprehensive and uniform definition of vat carousel fraud. provide also for harmonised administrative sanctions. the commission must now also make proposals very urgently to simplify and consolidate the anti-fraud legislation in this area. i think that's an important requirement. the commission has already done so, and i hope that the council will do so. many inspectors who are on the ground every day, who deal with this kind of crime every day, say that it is crossborder fraud and that we must therefore work together across borders. however, we also have a language barrier. if we have to study the vat legislation of a particular member state and we do not know the language, we have a huge problem. one of the tips they gave me was: at least ensure that vat legislation is translated into a number of basic languages in all member states. the committee on budgetary control has opted for french, english and german. we can discuss that. eurofisc, a belgian initiative to set up a network, seems to me to be a very good initiative. i think the commission should ensure that this creates added value. i also ask the commission to ensure that this is reported to parliament and that we are kept informed so that transparency is guaranteed. these are the main points in my report, and i also think that the use of new technologies is important. these can help us to combat vat fraud. i think, however, that if the recommendations of the rapporteur, the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on budgetary control are adopted, we as the european union will be in a much stronger position to combat this important type of fraud effectively.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would first like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent cooperation which has resulted in a good report in which we as the european parliament are sending some very clear messages in the debate on the revision of the vat system in the union. the system must be simpler, more efficient and more transparent. i think that mr casa's report will help to continue that debate. it is not the end of the road, but the beginning of a long road, and we are awaiting proposals from the commission to take it further. in the debate we must of course also note that in recent years there has been a shift from direct to more indirect taxation, but for the time being insufficient to guarantee the financing of the welfare state. it is therefore important that the tax proposals on financial transaction tax, energy taxation, etc. be taken into account in this debate. the reform of vat is not neutral either. it is an important policy instrument that has a direct impact on people's consumption behaviour. the purchase of goods may be encouraged or discouraged. we therefore believe that vat reductions and exemptions should remain possible, for example for the non-profit sector, for voluntary associations and for social reasons. new developments and policy priorities also need to be taken into account for a number of sectors. we are thinking here of the transport sector, where air and maritime transport are treated differently from, for example, rail transport, which makes it difficult to create a level playing field between modes and causes market distortions. we see something similar in the cultural sector, where all books, regardless of their format, should be treated in the same way from a vat point of view, so that downloadable and streamed books will be subject to the same rate as, for example, books printed on paper. so we should also look at these kinds of things. finally, a word on efficiency and fraud. it has been mentioned by other speakers. the system must be made less susceptible to fraud, the figure being between 80 and 100 billion euro per year in lost vat revenue. that is unacceptable, of course. better control, better coordination between services is a must. we are also in favour of administrative simplification, but only if it does not open back doors and if it is in the interest of the fight against fraud. we also support the move towards a destination principle based on the place of consumption. this should be accompanied by the introduction of well-functioning one-stop-shop services throughout the union. in conclusion, madam president, i think that the report will certainly contribute to the debate and is a good start; we are anxiously awaiting the commission's initiatives in this area.
in writing. by publishing its green paper on the future of vat, the commission aimed to launch a broad debate on the evaluation of the current vat system and possible solutions to improve its compatibility with the single market and to make it more efficient, so as to make it a greater source of revenue while reducing compliance costs. the complexity of current vat rules has always created administrative burdens for businesses, making the eu a less attractive place to invest. i voted in favour of the report presented by the european parliament because its ambition is to seek a simpler, more robust and more efficient system which is more transparent and based on close cooperation and the exchange of best practice between member states, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - the vat systems in europe do not in many cases contribute to a coherent economic policy. the most difficult problems with the different vat rates are particularly experienced in border regions such as the german-speaking community in belgium, which borders the netherlands, germany and luxembourg. in luxembourg in particular, professions, especially in the retail trade, have disappeared completely under the pressure of large tax differences. the present proposal mainly addresses these problems. it is to be hoped that this will be heard in the council and not fail, as so often, to achieve 'unanimity'.
in writing. parliament has asked for: (1) an evaluation report on the european public investment banking system, as already called for in its resolution of 25 march 2009. this assessment should describe options for the best way to streamline the system, while taking into account the potential effects of restructuring on the lending capacity of the respective banks in the crisis-hit economies; 2. the governor of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) to report annually to the competent committee of the european parliament on the promotion of the union's objectives, in particular as regards the eu's millennium development goals, the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs and the increased shift towards renewable energy sources and energy-efficient technologies; 3) that controls be tightened to prevent beneficiaries from using tax havens in projects in which the ebrd is involved.
in writing. the adoption of this regulation was necessary because it allowed trade with the western balkans not to be interrupted. the expiry of the trade preferences would have deprived the beneficiaries of an objective economic advantage in their trade with the european union, which could have weighed heavily on the overall economic performance of the western balkans and therefore had a negative impact on their internal reform and transition processes.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. but there are a few important caveats. first of all, i would say that this parliament must always respect the principle of subsidiarity. this also means that virtually all aspects of social security can best and most efficiently be regulated and financed at the level of the member states, or even of the länder of those member states. secondly, i have very serious doubts about paragraphs 26 and 53. we should have learned by now that massive funding through the structural funds is by no means always efficient, and i am very cautious, because money coming from europe is by definition handled carelessly. as regards paragraph 53, the following is added: why should this comprehensive and highly controversial anti-discrimination policy be brought up here? that is unnecessary and breaks the potential unity. i hope therefore that the amendments on these two paragraphs will be adopted so that i can support the report as a whole.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr rühle, and the whole committee on the internal market and consumer protection for the excellent cooperation they have had with the committee on budgetary control, for which i am the rapporteur. of the six key tasks mentioned by mr rühle, i would like to emphasize key task 5: ensure sound procedures and prevent unfair preferences. indeed, the first essential step in the fight against corruption and favouritism is to ensure a better exchange of data, especially on unsuitable tenderers. secondly, clear rules for the protection of whistleblowers need to be established and the 2010 council of europe resolution shows the way. thirdly, greater transparency and better information for both the public authorities and the general public must be ensured. the heide rühle report deserves our unanimous support, not least because it is a boost for those who also want to use public procurement to ensure high-quality jobs, wages and working conditions and equal treatment. i therefore fully support the paragraphs which call for good and legally binding agreements on social and environmental criteria and the substitution of the criterion of the lowest price for the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer. only then will we really have a high-quality offer, which takes account of all the life-cycle costs of a good, a work or a service. only then will we be looking for quality instead of a cheap accounting mentality.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs rühle, and the fictitious rapporteurs on their work, which has resulted in a report that is both complete, clear and in the right direction. they highlighted the changes which are essential for a successful reform of public procurement, in particular with regard to greater legal clarity and the necessary increased participation of smes in public procurement. i would like to return to four points which i think should be in the future proposal from the european commission, which we expect in december. the first is the end of the criterion of the lowest price, which seems to me to be indispensable. public procurement has consequences for citizens and our environment. we must take a long-term view of these markets and ensure that the criterion of the most favourable offer in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits takes precedence. in this way we will foster innovation and move faster towards the europe 2020 objectives. secondly, public procurement can be a real driver for the promotion of jobs, good wages and working conditions if we use it well. we must therefore be vigilant and increasingly use sustainable public procurement which incorporates social and environmental criteria. thirdly, there are many problems with subcontracting and they must be examined carefully. social and environmental criteria cannot be eliminated by such subcontracting and must remain controllable and be controlled. fourthly, we must reduce - as has been said - the administrative paperwork as much as possible to enable smes, and in particular small enterprises, to apply for public contracts. as you said, commissioner, these smes are the wealth of the european economy. they must be allowed to develop as much as possible and i have no doubt about the intentions you have expressed, commissioner. i shall have the honour of being the rapporteur for this parliament and i look forward to working on this fundamental matter to revive growth, even more so than today, of course. as you mentioned, commissioner, public procurement represents 17% of european gdp and i am very much looking forward to working with you, ladies and gentlemen, and with you, commissioner, to ensure that this leverage is used so that growth can once again be a reality at european level.
i'll start with a little communication. yesterday our assembly decided to put on the agenda for this afternoon the statements by the council and the commission on the state of play of the negotiations currently taking place in the european council on the economic crisis, followed by a round table of the political groups. the council and the commission have informed us that they will not be present to take part in this debate, and following contacts with all the political groups, i therefore propose that, in accordance with rule 140 (2) of our rules of procedure, you amend this item as follows: is there any comment on this change of agenda? if there is none, it is so decided.
the agenda calls for the debate on:- oral question to the council on the european semester 2011: first lessons from sharon bowles and pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-000219/2011 b7-0625/2011), and- oral question to the commission on the european semester 2011: first lessons from sharon bowles and pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-000220/2011 b7-0626/2011).
president, ladies and gentlemen, all plans, decisions and laws stand or fall with their implementation. and that is precisely why we were so pleased with the launch of the european semester and the integration of that semester into the six-pack. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. but i do feel wet, wet on the national side. for while it is clear to all observers that the union lacks the strength to reform in the light of the rapidly changing circumstances, we note that in several member states resistance is growing and that national parliaments are beginning to tighten up. secondly, i also share the criticism of the lack of democratic legitimacy. it is high time for a thorough debate on a well-understood approach to subsidiarity. are we stuck structurally or are we stuck politically? in any case, we have barriers that need to be removed. but in the meantime we must not sit idly by, because it is not five to twelve, but five after twelve, and all the member states must implement the measures agreed. so the question is: do you not think that the member states should now commit themselves to their own laws or constitutions in order to achieve budgetary balance? secondly: is it not necessary for national parliaments as such to make an explicit commitment to take the european recommendations in the context of the semester, the budget and europe 2020 seriously? and thirdly, i agree with the call for a more active role for the european parliament, because without democratic legitimacy there can be no justification for serious measures.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mr crescenzio rivellini, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009, section ii council (sec(2010) 0963 c7-0213/2010 2010/2144 dec)) (a7-0328/2011).
i am very pleased, as mrs gräßle is, that the council is here to debate this. i have just checked the list of speakers and i see that you have not asked to speak. i would nevertheless - and i think i speak for all my colleagues - ask you to respond to our comments at the end of the debate so that we can have a real exchange of views here ... (the president declared the council to be admissible) okay, that's noted then. it wasn't on the speaker list. the debate we are having today has actually been going on for more than three years. that's a bad thing, because we're really trying to work something out. it's not gonna happen. the council is a real hard-liner and the debate is about a gentlemen's agreement, a gentlemen's agreement, concluded over 40 years ago. there may be a gentlemen's agreement, but the council is not behaving like a gentleman in this. what are we asking? we simply ask that the council's budget be monitored, as is the case with the other institutions. is that too much to ask? the use of taxpayer funds must be controlled. that's what this is about. our group, the greens, and the european free alliance will therefore not grant discharge to the council because we want to keep up the pressure, because we want to make it clear that resources must be spent in a good way. let us be frank, nobody in this debate is saying that the council is committing fraud with the funds allocated to it, nobody is saying that irregularities are taking place, but it is simply a matter of democratic control by a committee on budgetary control which has been appointed for that purpose and which also has this task. the only answer we get to our question is a letter dated 2 june, a letter which says: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. mr president-in-office, you cannot seriously make this claim. firstly, it goes against years of practice and secondly, it is a pyrrhic victory in the end. if we do follow that reading, then, just as we ask the other agencies to appear before the committee on budgets in connection with the discharge to the commission, we will also ask the council to appear before the committee.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12.30 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. at present, people with disabilities represent about 15% of the european population, or between 80 and 120 billion people. this means the enormous potential of a workforce that wants to be seen as part of the vital forces of their country. the number is not likely to decrease with the increase in life span and the advances in medicine. one of the five main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to increase the employment rate of the population aged 20-64 from 69% to no more than 75% by 2020. to achieve this, the integration of disabled people into the world of work is necessary. the adoption of a first european directive requiring employers to make 'reasonable accommodation' is evidence that european intervention can be useful, especially in countries where disability is not yet well taken into account. the inclusion of people with disabilities also requires the recognition of sign language as an official language. europe must set an example in the field of the employment of people with disabilities. it must help to combat the prejudices which hold back business leaders and encourage headhunters to "dare" to hire. it is a sign of openness and respect for universal values.
in writing. taking into account only the consequences of the ageing population of european countries, the number of people who are "addicted" is likely to double by 2050, according to eurostat forecasts. the kosa report voted on this afternoon therefore stresses the need to improve the living conditions of disabled people. it is first and foremost a question of human rights, of respect for people who are doubly disadvantaged, first by their disability and secondly by the too many daily obstacles they face. more vulnerable, disabled people face physical difficulties (limited access to goods and services, public transport, etc.) but also social difficulties (few employment opportunities, limited access to means of communication, etc.). the adoption of this report makes it possible to establish a number of objectives to be achieved by the member states in terms of equal opportunities, such as increasing the employment rate of disabled people, their mobility and their participation in public life. the creation of a european mobility card aimed at harmonising care for disabled people or access to services and means of communication for visually or hearing impaired people would be valuable steps in this direction.
in writing. - the mobility of workers is one of the pillars of european policy, with the need to remove obstacles of an administrative nature in particular. the aim of increased mobility is also to lead to the recognition of qualifications and, in particular, to the progressive harmonization of social and wage conditions. the latter has not yet been achieved, and particular attention must be paid to preventing mobility from being turned into its opposite, social dumping, whereby low-wage countries are used to undermine existing social and collective agreements.
in writing. the free movement of people and workers has become one of the symbols of european integration and is regarded by europeans as the most positive result of this integration. however, too few people exercise this right. despite the initiatives taken to promote the mobility of workers, too many barriers of a social, linguistic, cultural, legal and administrative nature still remain. the member states must play a key role in promoting the exercise of this right. there is thus a need for greater cooperation to remove obstacles to moving to find a job. smes are a major source of job creation and can provide a real impetus to economic recovery and development. it is therefore essential to support them and involve them in the process. better mobility allows for an exchange of experience which benefits both employers and employees, and the objective of job creation will be more easily achieved if labour mobility is fully realised. priority should also be given to investment in vocational education and training and to the exchange of professional experience.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and in particular the amendments calling for the european union to speak with one voice and to occupy a single seat at the imf and the world bank (i am of the opinion that the same should be true at the united nations). i also voted for the amendment which stressed the need for high social standards in economic governance - a need which needs to be developed in many ways (particularly in view of the unfavourable economic news: restructuring, relocations...).
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has shown the limits of global governance as it exists. our economic management must be based on an approach that focuses on traditional macroeconomic and financial policies on the one hand and on a policy that gives priority to job creation and social protection on the other, because without a take-off in domestic demand there can be no sustainable recovery. it should be borne in mind that during the crisis, the world economy lost about 30 million jobs. europe needs comprehensive and joint solutions to overcome the persistent problems of the financial sector and sovereign debts. cooperation is essential to the stability of the world economy and must take precedence over national interests. it is therefore essential that the international institutions which are the focus of this cooperation reflect the changes of the last quarter of a century.
in writing. in europe, as elsewhere, single mothers are a growing category (within the european union, 85% of single parents are single mothers). the report by my colleague, barbara matera, which aims to encourage associations to help single mothers and training programmes to help them enter the labour market, was very welcome! i also voted in favour of the following recital, unlike my group: 'education and information for women about their sexual and reproductive rights, especially among the youngest, are essential to preventing unwanted pregnancies'.
in writing. the concept of the family unit is evolving to reflect changes in our societies. single mothers represent 5% of european women, and 85% of these mothers are aged 25-64. these women, who are often in a vulnerable situation, must be given special attention by our governments, since they share the challenges faced by all two-parent families, such as education, training, employment, etc. this accumulation of difficulties has repercussions for the children. the latter must have the same opportunities in education and access to the labour market as children from two-parent families. it is up to the eu, which is concerned to uphold the values of equality, democracy and freedom, to raise awareness among those member states which have not yet adapted their economic and social policies to these new family models. the single mother and the single father are still discriminated against in some eu countries and regions. the right to be different is a fundamental expression of human rights. every minority, whatever the nature of what makes it a minority, must enjoy the same rights.
in writing. the adoption this afternoon of barbara matera's report on the situation of single mothers marks a step forward in improving the status of these single women in relation to responsibilities usually borne by couples. it is essential that member states pay particular attention to single-parent families, which are more vulnerable financially, discriminated against in the labour market and victims of social prejudice. less flexible working hours, particular exposure to stress, social exclusion, lack of flexible training, etc. are all obstacles that single mothers, representing about 85% of single-parent families, see adding to the already existing inequalities between men and women. these families have specific needs. it is necessary to provide concrete responses and to adapt the policies of the member states. tax credits, health care subsidies, tax breaks, incentives for businesses that offer childcare facilities and day care, flexible employment opportunities, training available to single mothers, etc. there are many measures that could help to reduce the inequalities suffered by these women. not to mention better sex education for teenagers, which is essential to combat the increase in single-parent families.
in writing. unfortunately, organised crime is a global phenomenon that goes far beyond the borders of the member states and the european union. it is now, along with terrorism, one of the most important threats to the security, economic stability and freedom of the citizens of the european union. the fight against organised crime is one of the major challenges facing the international community. it must be able to have the means, including financial means, and a strategy at european level comprising legislative and operational measures. it is important that the commission develops effective instruments and takes concrete initiatives. a comprehensive approach to the fight against crime, increased international cooperation, in particular between judicial and law enforcement authorities, and the establishment of joint investigation teams are essential. the seizure and confiscation of proceeds of crime must also be among the instruments aimed at preventing criminal activities. it is also important to ensure adequate protection and defence for victims of organised crime.
in writing. the fourth forum to be held in busan, south korea, at the end of 2011 is a key moment in the aid effectiveness process launched in 2002. he will have to translate the promises into tangible realizations. in busan, you'll need: 1. to remind donor countries of their commitment to allocate 7 per cent of their gnp to official development assistance by 2015. 2. the make democratic ownership the first principle of aid and development effectiveness. democratic ownership requires strong governance institutions that can guarantee participation and accountability, with particular attention to the involvement of parliamentarians, local governments, civil society organisations (csos), free media and the private sector. 3. the it should be recalled that budget support is the most appropriate instrument for achieving the objective of aid effectiveness. 4. the highlight the emergence of new actors, emerging countries, foundations, etc. in addition to paris and accra, there are other types of relations, other ways of doing things and acting, which must now be taken into account. in the face of aid fragmentation, the complexity of the challenges, the difficulty of moving forward on the aid effectiveness agenda, we must be less bureaucratic and dare to be politically inspired.
on behalf of the alde group. i shall begin with the point made by mr schulz. i would like to announce that on thursday i will propose to the conference of presidents that mr van rompuy, mr barroso and mr juncker be invited to discuss economic governance in the euro area. they were appointed by the council to make proposals for the december summit. i think it is in our best interests to hold a debate with them in strasbourg in november on the content of their proposal. we must not let this happen as it did last time, when we were called to the end to deal with a proposal which had already been decided by the european council without parliament having had any influence on it. i am announcing this to you today and i hope, i think, that we will still have the support of almost all the groups for this debate in november in the european parliament. as regards the summit on wednesday, i have the impression that after 20 months of hesitation, contradictions and half measures, the heads of state and government have understood that we must take profound measures. we need a comprehensive plan to really bring stability back to the euro area and we also need a kind of road map to that end. as regards the content of this plan, mr president, i think it is very simple. we have here in this parliament, by an overwhelming majority, adopted a resolution eight days ago. it sets out the seven main measures to be taken in this plan to restore stability to the euro area. we don't have to reinvent anything. we must not discuss. we have agreed on a clear and precise resolution on the seven major reforms to be carried out at the euro area level. i assume, mr president, that you will be in brussels on wednesday to deliver your traditional introduction to the european summit, and i ask you to repeat the seven points which the european parliament is asking for in order to stabilise the euro area, that is to say to find a lasting solution for greece. we need a european plan to recapitalize the banks, because we are not going to do it with measures at national level. we need to strengthen the bailout fund. among the other points in our resolution, let us be honest with each other, there is one that will be crucial for the next few days and weeks. we can talk about everything, from economic governance, economic governance, the fiscal and economic union that we need, to recapitalizing the banks; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but the key point is clear: how can the rescue fund be increased? that is what wednesday is about and nothing else. the rest of the time they'll say, "we'll make progress for the december summit". but the main question is this: how are we going to strengthen the bailout fund? mrs. wortmann-kool said something about bazooka. will the bazooka be there? when we talk about financial markets, they're not just light ammunition. when we talk about financial markets, we're talking about heavy weapons. well, i can tell you that the proposal that will be approved on wednesday already exists. the increase in the rescue fund is already circulating in the corridors, not of the european parliament, but of the reichstag! that is where we are circulating the proposal which will be approved on wednesday. i got it right here! it is entitled 'draft terms and conditions maximizing the lending capacity of the efsf'. it's three and a half pages with all the details on how to do it. we're not the ones with the document. it is being discussed at national level and not at european level. i have to tell you, it's a complicated system. it is necessary to read this document at least three or four times before one understands it, and i have doubts whether this system will work, mr president. it is a system whereby 20% insurance will be given - it is already in the press - to all bonds and notes issued by countries in difficulty. whether it's spain, italy or any other country, we'll give 20 percent! in the absence of any possibility of increasing the rescue fund's resources, in the absence of an agreement between the member states to involve the european central bank, in the absence of an immediate implementation of a single bond market system, what are we doing? we're doing another national measure. we are told that the governments must continue to issue the bonds and we europeans will give a 20% guarantee. let me tell you, i have my doubts about the success of this system. 20 percent of the time! we are going to give a 60% discount to greece and at the same time we hope that a 20% guarantee will calm the markets. again, i hope it works, but i have my doubts because i believe that the real, the only and the right solution to be implemented as soon as possible is to create a single bond market in euros, in the euro area, and to save the euro.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission expresses its concern regarding the social and economic consequences that the closure of arcelormittal and nokia will bring. some 600 direct job losses, as well as indirect job losses at suppliers, are concerned. in the case of nokia, at least 3 000 jobs may be affected. a company’s decision to close down production plants is for the company itself to make. however, the european union can play a role, and the company needs to follow specific rules. as a very minimum, the commission expects arcelormittal and nokia to observe strictly the eu directives on information and consultation, collective redundancies and european works councils. the commission also expects arcelormittal to comply with the agreements it concluded and the commitments it entered into with employees and local authorities. the eu can also provide specific support. the european social fund offers re-training of workers, including various forms of assistance such as counselling, help towards self-employment, and so on. if it is not possible to keep the jobs, and the workers are made redundant, belgium or romania, in this case, could apply for support from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) if the fund’s criteria are met. first contacts between the belgian and romanian authorities and the egf services of the commission have already been made. more generally, i would like to highlight the main challenges that we face. first, it is becoming increasingly clear that growth is at risk in the eu. indeed, recent projections showed that growth in many countries across the globe – especially in developed countries – is strongly decelerating. the eu economy is no exception to this trend. the sovereign debt crisis is making things even worse for several euro area countries by pushing up interest rates and further affecting confidence. second, employment is a major concern. in the second quarter of 2011, employment growth measured over four quarters was a meagre 0.3%, and in august the eu unemployment rate was still stuck at 9.5%, the same level as at the start of the year. in contrast to our assessment in the spring, when the prospect was one of job-loss recovery, we now have to fear an employment crisis in the eu with a number of negative features: high youth unemployment, which is twice as high as the average unemployment rates; high structural unemployment with high budgetary and human costs; long-term unemployment, which has already risen from its earlier level of under 3% of the active population pre-crisis to just over 4% in the middle of this year; and rising levels of precariousness. the recent recovery in employment stems mainly from an increase in temporary jobs, as the number of workers on a permanent contract has risen only moderately over the past four quarters. finally, there is increasing social unrest as a result of the deterioration in employment, the implementation of severe austerity measures and wage cuts in the context of persisting inequality. indeed, there is an increasing perception among europeans that the cost of the crisis is not equally shared, with the poor suffering the most – and, as we have seen, this is a potentially explosive situation. in the short term, it is important that eu policymakers provide a clear, coherent and comprehensive response in order to calm financial markets and bring back confidence. this plan should address structural flaws in the economic and monetary union and concerns about greece and other countries, but should also revive the growth potential of the individual member states. the state of our public finances is very weak and we face lower growth expectations in the near future. this means that labour market recovery cannot rely on public stimulus measures and it cannot rely on gdp growth pulling the huge numbers of jobseekers back into the labour market. what we need to do is improve the functioning of europe’s labour markets. existing labour supply and labour demand will need to come together sooner; job matching should be more efficient; and existing jobs will need to last longer and be more productive. with precisely this in mind, the commission issued country-specific recommendations just before the summer break. these recommendations provide specific guidance on labour market functioning, tailored to each member state’s situation and covering a wide range of labour market reforms including payroll taxes, childcare, education systems, wage-setting mechanisms and retirement patterns. having said all this, of course, what matters is not just what we say in brussels: at the end of the day, what matters is what the member states do, what governments do and what firms do. in order to be successful in improving labour markets, we need to build, and to make use of, the right partnerships in member states, with the social partners and the private sector. the commission has proposed a roadmap for stability and growth to resolve the current crisis. furthermore, our next annual growth survey will present further proposals focusing on how to promote a growth-enhancing agenda that helps to create and maintain jobs in europe. in spite of extremely adverse market and financial situations, companies and their workforces throughout europe have, by and large, engaged creatively in restructuring processes that were constructive, effective and instrumental in limiting job losses. the commission wants to encourage permanent business adaptation to swiftly changing economic circumstances while maintaining a high degree of employment and social protection. measures supporting the reallocation of resources across firms and sectors are strongly needed. they include employment protection legislation and business practices related to corporate restructuring which do not hinder the reallocation of resources, across sectors, towards higher-value-added and faster-growth activities. in recent years, the eu has put a substantial amount of energy and effort into promoting adaptation to change and restructuring. as announced in the communication on ‘industrial policy’, in the single market act and in the ‘new skills and jobs’ flagship initiative, the commission wishes to put adaptation to change and restructuring on the agenda of public authorities, the social partners and other concerned stakeholders by means of a new consultation exercise. its objective will be to disseminate and apply the good practice across europe in the field of anticipation, preparation and socially responsible management of restructuring. the commission will be using the knowledge and experience acquired over the past few years, including through the restructuring forums, studies and seminars. however, we must recognise that this acquis is still largely unknown to economic and social players. furthermore, the commission considers that it needs to be reviewed in the light of the economic crisis. the egf currently works with two possible intervention criteria: an application can be made either on trade-related grounds or on the basis of the global financial and economic crisis. this second criterion is time limited and runs out for applications presented after the end of 2011. as the unemployment situation in the eu is still far from recovering, the commission has proposed – with the clear support of parliament but without, so far, having achieved a qualified majority in the council – an extension of this so-called ‘crisis’ derogation. the commission is doing all it can to ensure that the crisis remains an intervention criterion for the egf after the end of the current year and until the end of 2013, when the new egf regulation, proposed as part of the cohesion package on 6 october 2011, should enter into effect.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i will not go into the cynicism with which the arcelormittal group announced the closure of some of its plants in europe, and in particular in belgium, in liège, which ultimately caused hundreds of direct redundancies and put several thousand indirect jobs at risk. as a citizen of liège, i share the shock and dismay of the 581 workers who have been made redundant and their families. but i am also thinking of the severe restructuring announced by the steel group in france, germany and luxembourg. the reasons given are always the same: the poor prospects for the development of the steel market in europe, the strong competition with imports from china, korea, russia and brazil, the reduction in the automobile market and, finally, the competitiveness gap, for example of the liège site compared to the best factories in northern europe. in addition, despite a difficult year in 2010, the financial centre of the steel group arcelormittal belgium generated a profit of eur 1,394 billion. it paid zero euros in taxes, which is a 0% tax rate. this is particularly shocking. the management of the group is mainly financial, with a stop-and-go policy applied at several sites. and site closures are nothing more than, in the minds of these leaders, a variable of economic adjustment, where human issues are of little importance. this is no longer acceptable. you spoke, commissioner, of the rules. is it not time for the commission to draw up a binding code of social responsibility for multinational enterprises? it is six years since our parliament adopted a report on relocations, the code of conduct for enterprises, the reimbursement of subsidies, and the compulsory consultation between enterprises, trade unions and public authorities. since then, it is clear that little concrete progress has been made on these various proposals. so what does the commission intend to do about this and within what timeframe? while supporting the competitiveness of enterprises and making europe attractive for economic investment, a strong european legislative framework is also needed to deal with relocations and restructuring and to ensure that full consideration is given to another asset: human capital. finally, in the case of the liège site, i hope that it will be able to benefit from the intervention of the globalisation adjustment fund to compensate the workers made redundant.
the european union has a long history of cooperation with the developing countries, and it is not just the european union that is involved in this. today, there is very little left of either industry. the last victim we saw last month or this month was arcelor mittal in liège with the loss of countless jobs. first of all, this is a tragedy for the workers who have lost their jobs. i hope that we in europe will be able to provide the necessary support to help them find a job again and that we will support them in opening up our labour market, in creating more jobs again and in getting on with growth. we in europe must also learn from this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore essential that the commission monitors the use of european state aid and also state aid from the member states. the second point is very important and concerns reconversion. we must absolutely commit ourselves from europe to innovation, to the renewal of our economy. in my own region there is a good example of this, in the steel industry. with a steel-friendly flanders, high-tech innovation in the steel sector is being used to create absolute added value and to be able to be internationally competitive again. europe and the commission, in guiding the member states in implementing the eu 2020 strategy, should make a strong commitment to enabling this innovative and high-tech conversion. it is absolutely essential that we in europe no longer fight against globalisation but rather try to stop giving our citizens false promises. it is important that we as the european union adapt, as you have said, to reconversion and growth, in order to make a modern economy possible. we need to re-anticipate what globalization brings us. we must not continue to suffer from it, but rather try to shape globalisation more from within europe.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, listening to you, i thought i was dreaming. you read us general considerations on employment, on adapting to change, on growth. but today arcelormittal, the world's leading steel group, is making very substantial profits and, thanks to certain tax advantages - which should be banned at european level - modestly called 'notional interests', is making incredible profits, even as it announces the closure of the hot run in liège. so, commissioner, the question today is not whether the globalisation adjustment fund should be implemented, which is what i want, of course. what i am calling on you, commissioner, the whole commission, including the polish presidency of the council, is something quite different: it is really, as has been said, to avoid european deindustrialisation. steel is not dead, steel has a future, in liège as elsewhere. its production processes are diversifying. we need steel and high-tech products. i did. these are not obsolete industries. on the contrary, its products are very high-tech products. because of european inertia, 50 per cent of steel production has gone elsewhere: to china, india, south korea, eastwards to japan. this exodus has put an entire sector at risk. not only today, arcelormittal in liège, but also a whole sector that is inexorably linked to its customers: automobile construction, construction, the green industrial revolution, that is to say wind turbines, trains, trams, all those constructions that require a sober steel, an environmentally sustainable steel, a steel that is well inserted into an industrial fabric. all of this will be needed. and to do that, commissioner, will require more energy than you have given us. firstly, we are recapitalising the banks, okay, so why not also recapitalising the european steel industry? the domino effect we are witnessing today is unbearable: between the hot and cold phase, between the maritime and the inland steel industries, between the steel industry and all its subcontractors. we must put an end to this, commissioner, and to that end i make four proposals: the first is the public takeover of the tool. you did it for dexia. why not the steel industry? i'm asking you. the possibility exists of replacing this private failure with the establishment of a european steel industry cluster. i therefore ask the presidency to convene a european council of economic ministers to lay the foundations for a genuine european steel plan. so let's take the initiative again. third, i think we need to invest. and to invest, i suggest you use the project bonds which mr maystadt has come to present to us in the committee on budgets and which are an extremely interesting and valuable tool. finally, i think that a consolidated tax base is needed to avoid offshoring and competition. so, yes, i believe that for all workers, for the workers, for the engineers, for the regional, national elected european representatives, there is a future for the steel industry. there is a european industrial future and a chance to build that future. this chance begins in liège, and i'll be waiting for you on that field. (applause) i would like to thank
(start of the intervention without microphone) your speech is to say: 'let's not be too ambitious on the environment, because we're going to hurt our industry.' you know, that's the narrative that the american auto industry has had for decades with the federal government, which is why today, not only the auto industry, but the american steel industry is the most backward in the world, except, maybe, for the ones in kazakhstan. so is this what you want for the future of european industry? that we are the most backward in the world, that others invent the most environmentally efficient products and that our industries are, in the end, left with products that we can no longer do anything with? that's not an ambition we share with you.
madam president, commissioner, i have listened to you, but let us be clear: today, in the absence of a genuine community industrial policy, europe is in danger of losing its industrial know-how, which has been the source of its prosperity, in a globalised economy. with the sudden decision of arcelormittal, here is a new example in a traditional sector. this decision, as has been said by others, is being taken despite the considerable profits, tax advantages and also the efforts made by our workers to become more competitive. it is a disaster for hundreds of families, endangering the whole production chain, with the cold, downstream industry and subcontractors. this represents thousands of jobs in a region already heavily affected by unemployment. this decision to close the plant, probably the first of its kind in europe, was speculative in nature and was accompanied by the owner's refusal to sell the plant to a potential buyer in order to avoid competition. this is unacceptable. how, commissioner, can we force this multinational to sell its production equipment, thereby encouraging competition and maintaining activity and employment? the trade union leaders advocate a transitional takeover by the public authorities. is this possible in relation to europe and how? beyond these two specific questions, more than ever, with the crisis, europe needs industry and industry needs europe. we must have the ambition to put manufacturing and smes back at the centre of growth, even in traditional sectors which are innovative and guarantee the industrial independence of europe, of the union. this is one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy. europe must therefore devote sufficient budgetary resources to relaunching a voluntarist industrial policy on a continental scale, a policy which does not put workers in competition, which does not promote social dumping, but which supports research, develops centres of competitiveness, ensures the maintenance of integrated sectors, and takes up the energy challenge. it is high time that europe reacted and stopped suffering, powerless, from the speculative strategies coming from elsewhere, which impoverish our citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, the announcement made on 11 october by arcelormittal is a blow to the liège region. the steel giant is shutting down the hot phase and therefore abandoning hundreds of workers. two thousand people will be directly or indirectly affected. our thoughts, of course, to everyone here, go to them and, as elected members of the european parliament, to all the workers concerned at the other sites of arcelor and also at nokia. in liège, obviously, beyond the indispensable measures to support and redeploy the workers, beyond the equally indispensable cleaning of the site - a very important fact, moreover - all the assumptions are on the table at the moment. it is important to point out that we must not make untenable promises to workers, and i share mr daerden's doubts as to the compatibility of some of the assumptions under consideration (such as provisional regionalisation) with our european treaty. the commissioner stressed that the directives on dismissals should be respected, but that europe should also learn from these social tragedies. we must call on the commission to work for a change of attitude. the fact that our regions in europe must no longer depend on a single sector of activity means that now more than ever is the time for diversification and specialisation. in the immediate future, therefore, the union must, together with the regional authorities, facilitate economic conversion in the liège basin. for example, we must of course - and i strongly share the view expressed by isabelle durant and even, as it happens, by my communist colleague, earlier, but he is no longer there - retain the high value-added steel units. we must also invest, as of today - and i come to my conclusion, madam president - in the jobs of tomorrow, in sectors as varied as biotechnology, agri-foodstuffs and biological sciences. preparing for the future and returning to work is certainly the best answer to give to citizens today, in liège as in our other regions of europe.
madam president, commissioner, through you, the angry man i am is addressing the whole commission and the heads of state and government in europe. as is the case in the financial sphere, we are once again confronted with industrial groups that are playing with states, that are playing with regions. after demanding tax breaks, financial support for employment, research, free co2 emission allowances, they promised us investments yesterday, only to close the door today without a moment's thought for the consequences this may have on the men and women whose skills and commitment were the main asset in the service of the group. and all this for what? to satisfy the thirst for profit, we call it shareholder greed. in this case, i can speak in the singular, because it's lakshmi mittal, the owner of arcelormittal, who, not so long ago, was the fifth richest man in the world. these decisions underline the urgency of a european response because if we want to regain our economic sovereignty, we must act at european level. if companies like arcelormittal, nokia or bnp paribas - and many others could be named - can play with the member states and their regions, it is much more difficult for them to do so in the face of a united europe. and acting together, what does that mean? well, that means an integrated tax policy, not just a common corporate tax base, but harmonized rates so that we can no longer compete against each other. and the same is true of social and environmental standards. this also means having a common industrial policy, not a policy divided up among the member states. so, of course, the european union is not going to become a steelmaker tomorrow, but it can, by the way it spends its budget, guide industrial development. it is high time we stopped subsidizing certain activities - we voted here not so long ago for coal mining subsidies - which in fact divert resources that could be invested in the technologies of tomorrow, including the steel industry. european action must also be directed at dealing with the situation when things go wrong. we need binding rules, a binding legislative framework that imposes a pan-european process on these multinational companies, inviting them to base their choices on objective facts and to decide in consultation with all the social partners. it is also within this framework that all the tax, social and environmental subsidies that these companies have been able to benefit from must be recovered.
madam president, mr andor, i would like to say that it is not just the renault directive that is at issue, it is not simply a question of possible dismissals of steel workers, it is really the whole of europe's economic and industrial policy that is being called into question here by various people, myself included. i know the liège steel industry well. i've been working on research for 20 years. it's not a dead end. there's cutting-edge research on anything that's galvanized, anything that's vacuum coated. there's a future in this steel mill. what arcelor wants to do is to cut the company down, that is to say yes to cold steel, for the time being, and not to hot steel, while keeping the research centres. we'll dissect it, and then we'll see if it survives. that's not how you do industrial policy. we cannot leave the economic policy of europe in the hands of the financiers. they destroyed the liegean tool. tomorrow, the cold phase will probably have to close and god knows what will become of the research center. so either mr. mittal agrees to sell and there'll be a buyer, or we redevelop the area. but mr mittal cannot say today, after all the gifts he has received, the co2 quotas, after all the aid, "i'll cut you up for steel, and then we'll see what we see", it's indecent. but it is also indecent for europe to believe that the renault directive, the adjustment fund and all the other aid will solve our economic and industrial policy problems.
in writing. the workers at the arcelor mittal factory in liège are facing a particularly dramatic situation, with the announced closure of the hot run. we are talking about the loss of hundreds of direct jobs which will have an impact on the whole production chain and on the economic situation of a region already heavily affected by unemployment. we can be proud of our industrial past which has opened the door to strong growth. today, when this sector is experiencing serious difficulties, we must do everything possible to maintain it in the face of a business logic exclusively oriented towards profit, which refuses to give up the tool to a possible purchaser to avoid competition. if the union does not act now to combat these practices, similar situations will multiply across europe, leaving thousands of workers unemployed and increasing our dependence on other countries.
mr president, i have of course listened carefully to all the speakers, and in particular to the opening statement by mr mleczko on behalf of the council, who said in his speech that the question was whether an agreement could be reached. i think i did. because, as you will recall, two blocs with opposing views have clashed in this parliament. in the end, the twenty-week thesis won by a few votes over the other. however, i am one of those who think that there is a middle way, perhaps starting from the commission's proposal, i.e. eighteen weeks paid properly. that said, i'd like to see the adverbs go. in french, when you want to be imprecise, you use adverbs: correctly, decently... we have to set a figure, which could be 75 or 80 percent of the salary. i think that a minimum right of this kind, granted in all the countries of the european union, would be a relevant proposal to start from a good base. i thank mrs estrela for putting this question on the agenda. finally, i would like to see the right to paternity leave, which is fundamental for the division of labour at the birth of a child, guaranteed: two weeks of paid leave for the father. do you find it unusual that i particularly advocate this idea?
mr president, here is a concerned father. the european parliament gave its opinion on this directive on maternity leave almost exactly one year ago. one year and we are still in a deadlock. this impasse was almost foreseen and, in view of our ambitions, i would say miscalculated at the time. the matter is frozen, while the council, as co-legislator, is obliged to take a position, whatever the red lines drawn by the member states. on the substance - very briefly, because i do not think that substance is really the subject of this evening, it is a matter of procedures - my position has not changed: increase the employment of women, yes; better reconcile private and professional life, of course yes; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to address the demographic challenge. but if you want too much 20 weeks, 100% of the salary , you indirectly create the conditions for further discrimination in hiring to the detriment of the women themselves, who are here to be defended and who, by the way, are not applicants. the presidencies, first the hungarian and now the polish, have stumbled upon this dossier, only to fail a week ago in krakow. so, even if i have doubts about the flexibility announced by some of my colleagues, i would like to ask the council representatives a question to get out of this impasse - because it is essential - why we are not actually moving away from the commission's proposal, as mrs záborská has said and as my colleague mr tarabella has just said, and why are we not proposing a common position which will allow our parliament to play its full role as a co-legislator as well?
in writing. i am very pleased with the oral question on the extension of maternity leave put this evening by mrs estrela, because it is important to follow up the vote on this subject which took place here just a year ago. the vote was very ambitious, but it was a large majority in favour of raising the minimum maternity leave threshold to 20 weeks with 100% pay and a paternity leave. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am sorry, however, that the council has not shown any sign of life since then. it is true that our parliament must be realistic in the context of the current economic crisis. i would therefore suggest that the pay should be maintained at 100% but that it should be phased in in two stages: firstly, from an extension of maternity leave to 18 weeks, and then later to 20 weeks. i thank you, but i ask you not to forget about the adoption leave.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union's response so far - and we have been very critical of this as a group - has been, among other things, to focus rather fiercely on cuts and on sanctions if those cuts are not made quickly enough. look at the current clean-up measures being carried out in greece, but also in portugal, spain and those being prepared in many other countries. it is usually very simple people who are the first victims of this. they feel that they are paying the bill for the system's failures. in this context, it is, of course, vindictive to see that some of the wealthiest europeans are now able to break the law, evade responsibility and park billions of euros tax-free in switzerland and other tax havens. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. now some member states are trying to do something about it - and i think they are right - and they are trying to tax those billions in some way. but we think they're using the wrong methods, by going bilateral on these things. the swiss can thus pursue a divide and rule policy and defend their own interests more easily, inter alia by agreeing to lower charges than those which would normally be paid, and, moreover, by emphasizing the anonymity of the customers. it is clearly in the interest of the tax authorities in all our member states, and therefore in the interest of ordinary people, that we pull together and negotiate with the european union as a whole a comprehensive agreement with switzerland and others, if only to be consistent with our own efforts to tighten up, for example, the interest rate directive. this could be based, for example, on the approach taken by the united states. there they threaten fines of up to $2.5 billion for banks that don't move. more than ever, we must put an end to tax havens. bank secrecy cannot be allowed to take precedence over the principle that everyone must simply follow the same rules. i am glad, commissioner, that you have made it very clear tonight that bilateral initiatives can undermine the common approach of the european union. it is therefore important that the commission should adopt a more aggressive approach to the swiss issue, where automatic exchange of information and closure of all kinds of loopholes are crucial. so, commissioner, i wish you much courage and success, but i think we have to centralize things from europe, negotiate collectively and in this way achieve better results.
mr president, as we ask citizens to tighten their belts, they ask us what we are doing. the european parliament should lead by example but does not have any record of austerity. on the contrary, its budget has been increased to over eur 1.6 billion. until recently cuts in the budget of the european parliament were regarded as an anti-european act, but in current conditions it is a pro-european act. as a member of the ecr, i have always proposed an overhaul of the budget of the european parliament. together with my colleague geoffrey van orden, i recently launched a paper in the framework of our think tank, new direction, to cut the budget of the parliament over the years by 25%. new direction’s paper is called ‘ending the excess’ and a copy has been sent to members of the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control. we have to cut excess in the parliament, like subsidies for restaurants. we have to review the language regime and limit the number of languages for translation of documents in preparatory stages and we have to scrap the house of european history, which is a prestige project out of place and will become the white elephant of the european parliament, for which citizens will despise us.
mr president, at a time when europe is facing a serious crisis, we are, after all, proposing a budget of shame. it is a shame that we are not making a serious effort to save fundamentally, for example by abolishing some completely useless european institutions, agencies and subsidies. i am thinking of the committee of the regions, the economic and social committee, which are institutions whose practical use escapes me, and which nevertheless cost the taxpayer 200 million euros a year. i am not even talking about the 9 million euros a year for europarl-tv, the 3 million euros we are now giving away to the turkish occupiers of cyprus, and a lot of other nonsense. it is a budget of shame too, because we are unable to keep our own fees and the costs of this parliament reasonable. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will make a number of proposals in the future. we have to be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's citizens are not left behind.
mr president, i would like to congratulate all my colleagues, but especially our rapporteur, francesca balzani, for her important and serious work. it has allowed, by barely exceeding the overall figures in the commission's draft, the necessary programmes for which the added value of european spending is obvious to be strengthened, in a spirit contrary to the council's blind cuts. i am thinking in particular of the structural funds, and more particularly the esf, research and lifelong learning. these european policies are essential tools for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. yes, in this time of crisis, we must show the citizens that efforts are being made by everyone, but not by cutting these budgets that are essential to their future. the institutions send such a signal by reducing their own operating expenditure and parliamentarians by freezing their allowances. finally, the negotiations with the council will be difficult and i look forward to the day when our budget will be financed mainly from own resources. otherwise, some heads of state or finance ministers believe that european spending will always be too high, and that beyond the crisis.
in writing. i abstained on the political resolution on the 2012 budget. at a time when the european union and its member states are experiencing an unprecedented crisis, i cannot accept the 'lax' signal given by the two main political groups, the christian democrats and the socialists, who supported by 431 votes the commission's proposal to increase the european budget by 4% compared to 2011, or by eur 147.8 billion. this is clearly a political mistake and a message that our fellow citizens, who are being hit hard in their daily lives by the austerity plans implemented here and there, cannot and do not want to hear. it is true that the european budget represents only 2% of all public expenditure in the union, and that the european parliament has saved eur 25 million by freezing the automatic indexation of the cost of living allowances of members and by setting aside 15% of travel appropriations, but of course we have to come back to this vote at second reading. the european union must show more responsibility and restraint in budgetary matters than ever before at a time when the member states are continuing their efforts to consolidate their budgets.
in writing. the launch of the first two operational satellites of the global satellite navigation system galileo on 21 october marked a historic milestone in the implementation of this programme. galileo is vital for the future of high technology in europe. it will generate important markets and provide europe with the technological advancement that will enable it to be globally competitive. it is essential for europe and the world to have its own solution to escape the monopoly currently held by the united states with the global positioning system (gps). furthermore, future navigation needs and the requirement for worldwide coverage cannot be met by a single system. the agreement with the united states will ensure galileo's interoperability with gps. it should thus increase the number of satellites visible from any point on the earth and contribute to the accessibility of navigation signals for civilian users everywhere in the world. good cooperation is needed to ensure that the benefits of this important technology are fully exploited in the various applications.
in writing. according to ilo and oecd estimates, as many as 110 million jobs would need to be created by 2015 to bring g20 countries back to pre-crisis levels, which means 22 million jobs a year. the europe 2020 strategy foresees an increase in the employment rate in the member states from its current level to 69-75 per cent by 2020. this is one of the levers europe must use to avoid economic decline. recovery is about job creation and solidarity. in this context, to foster sustainable and green growth, the eu must pay special attention to smes, the real engines of economic growth, which produce 58% of all the eu's added value; • effective training adapted to the labour market; • the integration of women into the labour market (they account for only 30% of all entrepreneurs); • the integration of people with disabilities; to ensure a flexible, inclusive and active labour market; to improve research and innovation. we must ensure that future generations enjoy sustainable growth, based on a competitive economy and able to exert influence on the international scene.
in writing. president, with the agreement we are sealing tomorrow, we can better protect our children - including on the internet - from all forms of sexual abuse. the penalties for infringements are being significantly increased and much more attention is being paid to the protection of victims of child abuse. online grooming (friending children for the purpose of sexual abuse) and child sex tourism will be criminalised in all member states, both within the eu and abroad, when eu residents are involved. as regards child pornography on the internet, not only the possession of child pornography but also the visiting of websites will be made a criminal offence. parliament has made it compulsory for member states to remove child pornography from the net and to use all means to trace its source. it cannot be enough to block access to websites and not deal with the problem. moreover, the technology to block websites is not flawless and the risk of blocking more than is necessary is not imaginable. it is therefore right that we force member states to ensure that there is transparency about blocking websites and that there are sufficient safeguards to avoid collateral damage.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me, as always, be blunt. i am relieved this morning, because it might be a totally different debate here in parliament without the decisions that were taken at 4 o’clock this morning. i am relieved for one simple reason: finally we are starting to put in place a global approach to stabilise the euro, and i am relieved because finally – and it has to be repeated – we are now abandoning our hesitant approach of the last 20 months. let us also be very blunt about that: this crisis, and the reason for this mess, has been prolonged and worsened by the way this has been handled from the beginning, with contradictions, hesitations and half measures. we have done our job, with the pressure we have put on the council and on the commission to ensure that this way of handling this crisis finally comes to an end. but we also have to be realistic about it. a few good days on the markets do not mean that we have already reached our goal and that the euro is still stable, and again stable, and again strengthened. our goal is to strengthen and stabilise the euro in the mid term and the long term, not for one day or one week, and two things are crucial in achieving this in the coming days and weeks. the first is that the new firepower of the rescue fund has to be real firepower in the sense that the markets are convinced by it. let us be honest: one trillion – that is what it is in english, not one thousand million – is an impressive figure. it is big, but there are doubts about whether that firepower can be achieved in the long term if you offer, for example, a guarantee of 20% when, on the other hand, we agree on a haircut for greece of 50%. how credible, then, is this firepower? perhaps mr van rompuy can confirm that no figure was mentioned in the council conclusions; it is stated in the council conclusions that there is a guarantee or a possibility that it is one of the options, but i have not seen a figure, a concrete percentage showing what this guarantee might be. it is this guarantee – the percentage of this guarantee – that makes the system credible and sustainable and ensures that the firepower is sizeable and can be used on the markets. my second, equally important point is that we have to use the coming weeks and months to lay the foundations for a real economic and fiscal union for the eurozone. let us be very clear: it is not over. markets are waiting to see that we, by the end of the year, are establishing a real economic and fiscal union besides and in parallel with monetary union. that means in fact that we have to do two things. first of all i urge you, mr barroso, to come forward as fast as possible – before the end of the year, as you have announced – and put on the table the green paper on euro securities, the so-called stability bonds. because in the end it is only a eurobond market that can end the tensions within the market and avoid a repetition of last year’s mess. the second and most important thing is that we now need to establish real economic government in the eurozone. again, i have nothing against the idea, which we can also see in the conclusions of the council, that you will share two euro summits every year, maybe more if required and necessary; this already happens. but that is not the economic governance we need. an economic government is more than two meetings a year. i was prime minister for nine years and we met twice a week and, if necessary, twice a day, but not twice a year. so we need something else, which i think is in the conclusions. what we need is to use article 28 of the conclusions of yesterday. i am very pleased that olli rehn has been appointed vice-president of the commission in charge of the euro. what we need now, mr barroso, is for him to be able to create an inner cabinet in the commission where he chairs all the portfolios of the commissioners related to the euro, so that you make it sustainable and markets see that there is a government, an inner cabinet, in the commission dealing with these problems. secondly, i will repeat my proposal. we also have to ensure that this commissioner vice-president chairs the meetings of the ministers of finance of the euro, the euro group. let us make the system consistent and not have two personalities again who chair and are responsible for that. my request is that you come forward now, mr barroso, with a legislative proposal, as fast as possible, in order to provide a solution to that problem. finally, there is huge criticism, let us be honest. i had the opportunity this morning to hear yesterday’s debate in the house of commons in london, britain, where mr cameron said ‘hah, they have problems there but it is ok, we are not there, there is no problem for us’, and he was criticising ed miliband yesterday in the house of commons. but let us be honest: he is pleased to be outside but he wants to be inside to influence all these decisions, and he is criticising it. i think there is a good way for great britain to be involved in euro politics, and that is to enter the eurozone and be part of the system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr mario mauro, i have here the letter from silvio berlusconi to the council and the commission in which he says: 'dear herman, dear josé manuel, blah blah blah, with a big hug.' i would just like to say that this letter is a catalogue of promises that only binds those who believe in them. these are promises made by a political clown on the decline. since this letter was accepted by the speakers yesterday, i would like to ask you how you can explain this if not by indulgence towards a political friend of the majority family in europe? if mr papandreou had written such a letter, he would have been laughed at!
mr president, charles dickens once described credit as a system by which people who have no money borrow from other people who have no money but pretend they have. the summit has transformed the european union into a debt union where debt is pumped around so we can all pretend we have money but in reality we do not. we only bought time – and why? the root of the problem is still there. greece cannot recover in the eurozone. its debt has been cut but its economy remains sinking because the euro is too expensive for them. greece will default and have to leave the eurozone to devalue, but it stays in and as a consequence the rest of the package will be undermined. the rescue fund is inflated to insure bonds from weaker member states – but who wants to buy a bond which is insured up to 20% while you risk a haircut of 50%? if i were the investor i would stay away. in may last year we stood here; the newly created rescue fund was shock and awe. it was not to be, and now we have constructed a ponzi scheme, a debt bubble doomed to burst. your summits, mr van rompuy, have become a shakespearian drama of which the next episode is just a matter of time. i wish you personally – and i see you are yawning a lot – a good recovery from a sleepless night in brussels, but many may fall.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what we need is a federal leap forward. if we want to take advantage of the benefits of the european union in responding to the crisis - and there are many - we need integration, not only budgetary and fiscal, but also political. the method of coordination you continue to use in preaching has shown its limitations. what is your answer? it is to bring together the economic and financial ministers of the euro area or the european union a little more often and to give the commission greater powers of control over national budgetary processes. but you know what austerity measures the commission is taking. the european parliament is the only institution in the world which has the power to make decisions on the basis of the treaty. mr van rompuy, mr barroso, what you are proposing is becoming more and more like the chinese model, a model which i think we do not share. i hope this is not the payment for the loan you are going to ask for, via mr sarkozy, via mr regling, from the middle kingdom.
in writing. if we can believe some of the comments, the heads of state and government have saved the euro for good tonight... europe has taken a small step forward tonight, but the measures agreed will only be effective in the short term. i do not share the euphoria of some. take the efsf, for example. the enlargement of the efsf is unnecessarily complex and may not be efficient. the responsibility for buying government bonds is placed on the efsf, but without also providing the fund with sufficient resources. because €1 000 billion will not be enough to build a dam for italy and spain. the solution worked out by the heads of government in the european council is purely financial high-technology and not measures relating to the real economy and the social fabric of europe. the council is fully on the side of the financial markets and not on the side of the citizens. we have not been given any perspective on fair income, on job creation, on investment in the economy. a faltering economy will never recover by resorting to financial tricks.
in writing. sexual abuse of children is a heinous crime that cannot be ignored. they seriously endanger the health and psychosocial development of the child and very often leave irreversible and life-threatening effects. forcing a child to engage in sexual acts, or forcing him into prostitution, must be punishable by exemplary penalties. the directive we have just adopted will introduce severe penalties at european level for perpetrators of abuse and for those who view paedophilic images on the internet, which has also allowed the development of new forms of sexual abuse, such as online solicitation for sexual purposes. the producers of child pornography, but also the consumers of child pornography, will be prosecuted and may face heavy penalties. i also welcome the obligation to remove all child pornography from the internet in all eu countries. preventive measures to raise awareness of this scourge and reduce the risk of children becoming victims of sexual exploitation are also needed, as is the care and protection of the child before, during and after criminal proceedings.
in writing. the adoption this afternoon of the angelilli report is a significant step forward in the fight against sexual offences and child pornography. member states will now be able to delete child pornography sites or block access to them on their territory if this is not possible. in addition, the european parliament has called for, among other things, tougher penalties for paedophiles and lovers of child pornography on the internet. the importance of the market in child pornography is underestimated, and this report finally responds to the growth of this trade. in future, it will be necessary to monitor its development closely and to supplement this directive accordingly, in order to adapt to the reality and the speed of technological developments. i want to see the incredible popularity of social networks, where minors are still too easy victims to reach. i can only welcome this new legislation, but there are still many steps to be taken before we reach the zero tolerance we must have towards sex offenders. we must go further to try to eradicate these crimes and to address the root of the problem.
in writing. the directive we have just adopted is a first step towards a common asylum policy by 2012. it should provide greater security for beneficiaries of international protection and greater clarity for member states. the reconciliation of the rights of refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection in terms of access to employment, vocational training or health care is an important step towards a more humane and equitable approach to people who risk suffering serious harm if they return to their country of origin. progress has also been made in relation to issues related to the sex of the applicant, including gender identity and sexual orientation, which may be linked to certain legal traditions and customs, such as those arising from genital mutilation, forced sterilisation or forced abortion. the best interests of the child, the principle of family unity, the well-being of the minor, his or her social development, safety and opinion should be the primary considerations of the member states when implementing the directive. i hope that today's vote will give a positive impetus to the negotiations on the other issues in the asylum package.
in writing. as humanists, as universalists, we must fight for a universal ethic, based on the sacred requirement of the protection of every human being. we must act every day to ensure the protection of human rights for all, including minorities. the european union, as the foundation of democratic values, must remain vigilant in order to build a world which is freer, more just, more united and more respectful of all. it must be concerned with building a society which respects man and his different identities, a society which rejects discrimination and which affirms that man does not have one identity but many. did not j. f. kennedy declare before the protestant council of new york in 1963 that "the family of man is not limited to race or religion"? reducing the identity of a human being to a single characteristic is a totally wrong conception of the individual. some people make this mistake of analysis because of a lack of thought. others exploit this shortcut for opportunism and malice. each man is defined by a multitude of different identities.
in writing. for several years, ukraine has been a partner of choice for the european union. recent events, however, have removed ukraine from the 'just state', that is, a state governed by the rule of law, and this raises our concern. the former prime minister of ukraine, yulia tymoshenko, was unjustly convicted by the courts of her country. similarly, former interior minister yuri lutsenko was also detained without any real reason. could this not be seen as a means of silencing the opposition? the european union, as the defender of human rights, democracy and fundamental freedoms, cannot remain indifferent to such a situation on its doorstep, because ukraine is a european country. relations between ukraine and the european union must be based on the promotion of common values. in order to maintain regular and frank contacts with our ukrainian counterparts, this report rightly highlights the urgent efforts that still need to be made before the summit in december.
in writing. on 8 june 1999, the council adopted a resolution on antibiotic resistance: a major public health problem responsible for 25 000 deaths per year. twelve years later, the problem remains intact and is still a concern for the european institutions, which is why this afternoon the european parliament adopted a resolution stressing the need to be vigilant against the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant bacteria which can spread among humans through the consumption of contaminated food. i welcome the fact that meps have stressed the well-established link between the use of antibiotics in veterinary medicine and the development of resistance in humans which would logically justify the gradual abandonment of the prophylactic use of antibiotics in the livestock sector. it is clear that the therapeutic purpose should be given priority over the prophylactic use in connection with transport, vaccination or stress of the animal. this is the message delivered by the leading microbiologists at a conference in chicago last september, who, in the face of the explosion of resistance cases, for example in chickens sold at retail, recommended restricting the use in animals of antibiotics considered essential to human health, such as fluoroquinolone and the latest generations of cephalosporins.
i would like to say that the socialist and democratic group has not tabled a resolution on tibet and will not be voting on it. not that we are against what is said in this resolution but we think that the timing is particularly bad since there are opportunities for direct dialogue with china on these issues as well, whether in the framework of the eu-china summit or in the high-level forum which will be organised by all the political groups here at the very beginning of november. we therefore felt that an emergency resolution on this subject could create interference, that it would in any case not solve the problem and that there is nothing better than direct dialogue.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, my group certainly did not vote in favour. he was placed in the minority. the position of our group was clear from the beginning. what we discussed next in our group was whether, as we were in the minority, we were still making a separate resolution. finally, the group's decision after the fact was not to put forward a separate resolution.
mr president, i am beginning to think that this is a resolution against the socialists. maybe i misunderstood you. the socialists have always voted for the tibet resolutions. they also presented some. the question is not the question of tibet, the question is how to get a message across so that it gets to the right destination. we shall have the opportunity to do so in november in our direct dialogue with china. i went to china where this subject was discussed with the chinese. i will not tolerate the suggestion that we do not want to discuss this subject. we think that a humanitarian emergency resolution today may not be the best way to go. it's our right to choose how to get a message out about human rights.
author. - mr president, we had a very political resolution this morning on syria, more on syria and egypt. and if we wanted to have a separate resolution on rafah nached this afternoon, it is because, really, it is anything but a political issue. it is a human rights issue. rafah nached is, as we have recalled, a prominent psychoanalyst who studied in paris, who is in a very precarious state of health - she is 66 years old, recovering from cancer, she has a heart condition - who is imprisoned with fifteen other detainees and, above all, who has done nothing. it is the very example of these sometimes prominent citizens - journalists, actors, tribal leaders - that the syrian government arbitrarily attacks to show that no one is immune from this arbitrariness. it is for humanitarian reasons that we are asking today, not only the syrian government, over which we have, it must be said, very little control, but also all those who are close to it, our chinese friends, who we were talking about earlier, the arab league, who met bashar al-assad, all those with whom the european union has relations, to ensure that these completely innocent people are released and also that all those who are working today to help them - humanitarian organizations, etc. - can at least do humanitarian work. i urge that mrs rafah nached be released. there are voices everywhere calling for his release, as you know. mrs ashton has made a statement on this, even carla sarkozy has written about it. well, we too, today, say to the syrian government that enough is enough.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. it is a technical matter, a complex matter, and also a controversial matter, which she has brought to a successful conclusion, together with the shadow rapporteurs. the work is not yet finished, of course; the council will then negotiate with the commission. as has already been mentioned, we expect a ruling by the court of justice next year on a number of infringement cases and - not unimportant - we also expect a fourth railway package which will deal with a number of issues which we have not been able to resolve in this context, in particular the liberalisation of national passenger transport and perhaps also a decision on the prohibition of integrated structures, and thus a strict separation between infrastructure manager and operator. i think it's a good thing we're putting that package on hold for a while. it's a very controversial package. we need to study the impact of that. i also think that we must examine it carefully in relation to our objectives, namely the creation of a european railway area where the quality of service to passengers is maintained and where workers can work in good conditions. that said, this revision is also very important in itself, because it clarifies a number of issues. the revision limits the member states' room for manoeuvre, the member states' interpretative possibilities with regard to the application of the first package. in practice, this will mean that we will see greater harmonisation of the operation of the rail transport market in the various member states. we will do this by substantially strengthening the regulator and even aiming in the long term to establish a european regulator. there's also going to be more transparency in the levies, in the cash flows. more guarantees for the financing of rail infrastructure by imposing long-term commitments on member states. i also think it is a good thing, madam rapporteur, that the right to strike is maintained. that is something we should rather settle at national level. in short, a small step forward, but a very important one for the sector in the realisation of a european railway area.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague mr cramer has pointed out, competition is only meaningful if it is competition in relation to the road. that's where we need to gain market share. i am glad that the difficult debate on the complete separation of infrastructure and operation has been postponed, especially since - at any rate in my country, a small country with a very dense network - too much separation has led to a great deal of disorganization, a great deal of additional costs, without any new benefits, or new entrants. then what's the point? there's not really enough new entrants. secondly, i think that what we need is obviously a strong and independent regulator. we need separation but also essential functions. let us look at it function by function and not ideologically, to see which functions are those on which, indeed, separation is needed. when we go so far as to say that we want to separate it or human resources, i don't see very well what that can do in terms of economies of scale. thirdly, on rail services, i think i tabled an amendment with my colleague mr cramer to article 13. if a workshop does not have the residual capacity to accommodate a new demand, why do we want to force it to do so, if not to disorganize the work it already provides or the service it already provides? so i think an interesting job has been done. there is a big one ahead of us and here are a few points on which i think we could still improve the text a little.
the commission has already done so. i should also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her work. you and many others have been very helpful in these discussions. not all of them have met all of their expectations. but that's the nature of compromise. the implementation of this railway package of nine years ago has not been done at all. that is why i always find it difficult when certain people here want to explain in a credible way that the consequence of what is happening today with the railways is, in effect, the liberalization that was not carried out nine years ago. this is getting a little ridiculous. what were we doing in parliament? we wanted more efficiency, we wanted a space for rail, and we also wanted rail to have a lot more market share tomorrow, because we know that it's needed in passenger transportation and road transportation overall for a lot of reasons. the commission has not yet taken any action to implement this directive, because, as i would like to say, in many countries the railways are not a priority. i am also convinced today that we can make the best legislation, and if the council does not participate in our decisions tomorrow, colleagues will be standing here again in five or ten years' time and will find the same thing. we've narrowed it down. we wanted to tackle a number of issues, but first of all we wanted a strong regulator who respected the rules of the day and who designed the market opening in such a way that we would have more market share, more jobs and more efficiency in the railway sector tomorrow. as regards funding and the relationship between service providers and infrastructure managers, i must say frankly that the debate has become almost etymological in recent weeks. what we wanted was very simple: that public money, or what was paid for with public money, not just be paid back with returns, but also be paid back by the market. these are subsidies that nobody needs to get close to. i hope that this will be understood in the council and in the commission tomorrow. we shall then have a good basis for further discussion next year.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would first of all like to thank all those who have participated in a constructive spirit in the preparation of this report: my colleagues, representative associations and also collaborators. in 2010, 116 million people were at risk of poverty, i.e. more than 20% of our citizens and 8% of europeans were living in extreme material deprivation, certainly more today with the crises we are experiencing. the 2020 strategy adopted here set itself the goal of reducing the number of poor by 20 million and this platform aims to be the tool of this fight against this phenomenon, which in itself represents a violation of basic human rights. the report therefore aims, beyond specifying the method of its operation, above all to give the union and the member states a roadmap with recommendations for policies to be implemented to achieve this objective. the adoption of this resolution by this parliament is therefore of particular importance in the current political and economic context. citizens must see that the union is concerned not only with the debt of the member states but also with their economic and social situation and that there are still european institutions and elected representatives who promote solidarity between states and between citizens. a word about current affairs and the food aid programme for the poorest of the poor which we want to keep at 500 million in the short and long term; it's in the report. the council of agriculture ministers yesterday reached agreement to do so, at least in the short term. that's good! this is a positive sign. that was the least of it, but what worries me is the reluctance, or even the threats, of some member states against the union's social policies before they get there. and the long-term problem is not yet solved. the following are some of the other key points raised in this report. first, several categories of people who are more vulnerable to poverty risk such as children, women, the elderly, the disabled, migrants or roma require a specific approach and are therefore treated separately in the report. then there are various factors that can lead to poverty. they are also the subject of special recommendations. this is the case, for example, with the shortage of decent and affordable housing, decent jobs, quality and accessible social services without discrimination, education systems that avoid school drop-out or vocational training adapted to the labour market or, simply, financial resources to meet basic needs, hence the need for a minimum income in europe under community legislation. in order to carry out these actions at european level, we are naturally asking the commission to mobilise european funds to finance initiatives to combat poverty, in particular the european social fund or the european globalisation adjustment fund. one thing must be clear: public policy cannot be pursued at european level, as at national level, without adequate funding. social investment to fight poverty and thus boost job-creating growth and thus start a virtuous circle is therefore essential. i would like to emphasize one point. austerity measures in the framework of european economic governance must not jeopardise employment or social protection. it is not enough to monitor the inflation, deficit and debt curve. the member states must also be accountable for the development of poverty and parliament will have to be regularly informed. the report therefore stresses the need for regular monitoring of member states' progress within the platform. all these recommendations were widely discussed at the first convention of the platform in krakow and were received quite favourably by the actors on the ground in the fight against poverty, whose involvement is fundamental, as the report recommends. i therefore call on my colleagues to give massive support to this report, as was done in committee, so that this parliament can finally give the citizens a positive signal in these times of suffering.
mr president, there is one aspect of the problem of poverty and social exclusion which has not been discussed in this debate, and that is the fact that the member states of the european union import poverty and social exclusion on a large scale. every year hundreds of thousands, if not more, of immigrants from outside the european union arrive. many of these people are integrated into the social security system of the member state in which they are established. people without job prospects, people without integration opportunities, people with very high language backlogs from the start. i think it is very important that the member states change course and adopt a policy of non-discrimination towards potential immigrants coming to europe who have no prospect of work or integration. this massive import of poverty must be stopped as soon as possible, because the absorption capacity of the member states has already been far exceeded. the report under discussion rightly points to the problem of many immigrants from outside the eu ending up in poverty. but to tackle this problem it is important that a restrictive immigration policy is pursued, that there is also another way of investing in the countries of origin of these immigrants, so that the money is no longer wasted but that the money is used to create jobs there.
member of the commission. − madam president, i agree with everyone who spoke in the discussion in the spirit of reinforcing our efforts to combat poverty and social exclusion in europe, at eu level and also in the member states. i agree with what was emphasised in the discussion: that the centrality of employment policies – the availability and the quality of jobs – is highly important, and therefore employment policies have to play a stronger role. wherever possible, job creation has to be front-loaded and cannot just wait until economic growth and recovery creates jobs again at some point. in programme countries, but also in countries where there is greater room for manoeuvre for the government through targeted interventions and initiatives, i believe it is possible to create jobs and reverse the negative trends. there is a great role – and this is what we also stressed at the european platform meeting in krakow – for social innovation. perhaps more could have been said about this in today’s discussion. however, we believe that this is going to be an effective tool for finding and disseminating new and effective solutions to poverty. in particular, for example, the situation of minorities and other marginalised and disadvantaged groups, or new areas like digital inclusion should be explored in this way. that is why it is also very important that, in addition to the esf and other well-known financial instruments, there will be a new eu-level facility for supporting social innovation. more solidarity is needed in the eu but also within the member states. i believe that, although we are in quite a late and very dangerous phase of the financial crisis, this is now being increasingly recognised. in certain member states there are new directions concerning, for example, the role of taxation in fiscal consolidation or the new negotiations on a minimum wage in germany, which i very strongly welcome. this connects with the call which i heard from many participants in the debate about further legislative proposals in this area. i believe legislative proposals should not be ruled out, but they only make sense if they have a chance of being passed and implemented. so we have to continue to look at what is really causing the problem here, and how this should be addressed. i believe that if we look into the question of how we have arrived at this point, with a huge number and an increasing proportion of badly-paid jobs, we should pay attention to a trend which is a polarisation of the wage structure in europe, particularly as a consequence of the large-scale loss of industrial jobs in the recent past, which was aggravated by the financial and economic crisis. that resulted in the disappearance of many medium-paid jobs, the so-called ‘hollowing out’ effect in the labour market. that, i believe, requires primarily a stronger employment dimension to industrial policies, which is why we have to reinforce industrial policies at eu level and make a stronger connection between job creation and the sustainability of jobs and industrial policy. i agree with those who stressed or hinted that, if macroeconomic policies are half-baked, social policies have a very difficult starting point. this is why it is very important that there is better coherence between all these policies, which is what we would like to achieve in the next european semester. finally, i will mention one issue which many members of the house spoke about: food aid for the deprived. the commission was, from the very outset, determined to address the legal problem and begin discussions in council in order to secure the provision of similar quantities of foodstuffs for the next two years. on 3 october, i presented an amended proposal for the pending regulation extending the legal basis to the relevant chapter of the treaty, i.e. social cohesion. i am extremely happy that the member states reached a compromise yesterday in the council. the commission services will now make the necessary changes in order to ensure the continuation of this scheme.
the rapporteur. - madam president, at the end of this debate, i am pleased to see the broad support of most of my colleagues this morning - and i thank them for this report, for this road map, which is multifaceted and contains complementary recommendations, and i believe that this is important. perhaps a word about the minimum income which still elicits reactions sometimes based on misunderstandings. in fact, in our report we have drawn up a compromise on this important subject which takes account of the specific features and living standards of each state and which, mrs lynne, is in the nuanced sense that you have expressed. i think it's a really useful tool, but with the nuances that it has to have. i also welcome the statements and intentions of our commissioner andor, which are in line with the wishes of parliament, particularly in the areas of employment, child poverty, gender equality, access to social services and, above all, the refinancing of social cohesion funds. mr andor, we must ensure that these intentions, your initiatives and your concrete proposals for 2012 can be put into practice. as you said, the european parliament, together with the commission, must put pressure on the member states to make solidarity between citizens a reality, a priority in the union, especially in the context of the crisis we are experiencing. the more united parliament is in this struggle, the stronger our signal will be.
the european platform against poverty and social exclusion is one of the flagships of the eu 2020 strategy. the fight against poverty is rightly highlighted as a major priority and challenge for the eu: it's our ambition to lift 20 million people out of poverty by 2020. over the past 10 years, the poverty rate in the eu has increased or, at best, remained constant. in most countries, the lowest benefits and the last safety net, the living wage or minimum income, fell. we cannot and must not accept this: families can't make ends meet and live in poverty. i hope that the european platform against poverty and social exclusion will provide a good basis for our joint fight against poverty in the eu. finally, i would like to refer to the european food programme for the least privileged. yesterday a political agreement was reached for the years 2012 and 2013. i think this is an important signal: the programme is indispensable for the approximately 18 million europeans it supports each year. but we can 't leave it at this . we must also seek to ensure adequate funding for the period after 2013 so that the programme can continue.
in writing. this report, which i voted for today, concerns the agreement to gradually open up the road and capacity markets and to level the playing field. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to jordan, in particular through the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to jordan.
in writing. the report i voted for concerns the agreement signed with georgia and is fully in line with the european union's neighbourhood policy and common airspace with its neighbouring countries. the agreement aims to create a level playing field between all air carriers by allowing the gradual opening of the market through access to routes and capacity.
in writing. since georgia gained its independence in 1992, the european union has repeatedly expressed its willingness to maintain close relations with its eastern neighbour. this agreement on a common airspace is part of the desire to maintain lasting relations on various strategic issues. a common airspace will ensure safety and efficiency and the conclusion of this agreement will mean increased mobility for european citizens. in addition, maintaining regular contact with georgia on a wide range of subjects will also make it easier for us to deal with certain economic and political aspects which will be decisive in the long term, such as the opening up of markets.
in writing. 2010 was a year of unprecedented papy boom in belgium: more than 100 000 workers were admitted to the pension scheme. i welcome the invitation this report addresses to member states to recognise the importance of integrating migrants. immigration is a natural phenomenon. the history of mankind is the history of migration. zero immigration does not exist, has never existed and will never exist. in our time, it is no longer possible to spare a thorough reflection on the problem of migration. all countries are affected by the movement of people, whether as countries of origin, transit or destination. migration is a positive reality. they not only enrich the economies but also the culture and society of the countries of transit and destination. migration is a natural phenomenon that must be accompanied, modelled and made positive. in a europe where the regions are increasingly important, it is also important to remember that the structural funds earmarked for them can be used to achieve such an objective. unfortunately, this is not the case at present, as only 9% of the appropriations have been used.
in writing. demographic change is one of the major challenges facing public authorities, both at european and international level. the ageing of the population, the importance of migration flows, exodus from rural areas to urban areas. these demographic changes are one of the major challenges of the future. the report i voted for today calls in particular on the commission to improve its 'demographic vulnerability index' and to recalculate it every five years in order to better identify the regions of europe that are particularly exposed to demographic change. this is only the first step in managing these inexorable changes.
in writing. i supported the agreement between the polish presidency and the european parliament delegation on the prohibition of short selling on sovereign debt. it seems important to me that, following the decision taken by some member states (germany, france, belgium, etc.), the european union should 'clean up' the jungle of financial instruments which destabilise the markets and reduce the monetary funds available to finance the real economy. the creativity of experts is indeed limitless. as here, with this possibility given to financial institutions to buy a credit default swap without owning the underlying asset, for example a greek government bond. applied to the real economy, it's a bit like giving a citizen the opportunity to take out fire insurance on his neighbor's house with a clear interest in playing the arsonist. the temptation of the worst! the european parliament is seeking to bring about a 'return to normalcy' by adopting this regulation. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. this directive 2005/26/ec applies to any national of a member state of the european union who wishes to pursue a regulated profession whether as a self-employed person or employed person in a member state other than the one in which he obtained his professional qualification. in practice, the recognition process based on professional experience is still too cumbersome and time-consuming for both the competent authorities and the professionals. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report because it aims at: (1) simplification for citizens in the sense that the length of the procedure will be reduced through the use of modern communication technologies, better centralisation of information and clarification of definitions, particularly as regards the temporary and occasional provision of services; 2) to update existing provisions (in particular by means of the classification of economic activities in line with scientific and technical developments); the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all workers in the same occupation.
in writing. professional mobility is a key element in stimulating economic growth, making the labour market more flexible and addressing demographic deficits in some regions of the european union. however, the freedom of movement of persons within the european union and the right to recognition of professional qualifications and competences can only be effective when the indirect obstacles which currently exist have been reduced to a minimum. the recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications is a fundamental condition for the establishment of a genuine internal market and for everyone to enjoy the benefits of this freedom of movement. all initiatives to facilitate crossborder mobility should therefore be encouraged. an effective way of enabling the free movement of professionals would be to reduce the total number of regulated professions in the union, although classification may be justified on grounds of consumer protection, in particular for medical, legal or technical professions. paid traineeships by graduates from other member states should be encouraged and it should be ensured that the professional experience gained during the traineeship is recognised in the home member state.
in writing. the adoption of the report on the recognition of professional qualifications is excellent news for the european worker: simplification and relaxation of the rules for the recognition of professional titles for a faster process, strengthening of cooperation between states, creation of a european professional card allowing easy access to information... are the main objectives. these proposals will ensure greater mobility and freedom for workers and guarantee the respect of citizens' rights. this arsenal of measures will still need to be supplemented by essential safeguards to ensure balanced recognition of the multiple qualifications existing in the eu and to guarantee a reliable service by the professional, especially in the field of health. the challenge is enormous: the length of studies, internships, language training, there are as many formats as there are states for each learning. modernization of reconnaissance will have to be done cautiously but safely, as more than 50% of young people are willing to work abroad, according to eurobarometer (may 2011). there is still a long way to go before full recognition of vocational qualifications, despite european progress in the equivalency of qualifications and diplomas.
in writing. i welcome the commission's initiative to launch a consumer protection programme. it is necessary to ensure that consumers enjoy a high level of protection throughout the european union. consumers must have access to useful, targeted and comprehensible information without, however, creating additional burdens for businesses. special protection should be ensured for groups of consumers who are particularly vulnerable because of their mental or physical health or age. it is also important to educate consumers from an early age. in view of the growth of financial services and electronic commerce, measures are needed to define good practices for electronic commerce and rules covering electronic means of payment. we must continue to combat unfair business practices such as false advertising and aggressive business practices such as harassment. consumer confidence is a powerful economic driver for both traditional and electronic commerce and therefore needs to be reinforced by clear and effective measures.
in writing. the adoption of the report on the new strategy for consumer protection is good news. the european parliament supports the ambitious guidelines of the european commission. these aim to make consumer choice considerably easier by giving priority to more and more information on products (e.g. clearer labelling, transparent and comparable information on prices) and placing particular emphasis on food safety (information on pesticide, chemical content, etc.). other priorities include reducing consumer inequalities, a low-carbon economy and protecting children from advertising in the fight against obesity. the citizen has the right to demand exhaustive information in order to consume in an informed manner. globalisation, environmental awareness and technological developments have dramatically changed consumer habits. it was therefore important to reform the priorities of the community strategy for consumer protection. this report seeks to define a better, coherent legal framework for a safe and transparent environment that takes into account the concerns of europeans.
in writing. sensitive vote this afternoon on online gambling, with so many conflicting interests and visions between member states, national lotteries and the many players involved in this frenetic and particularly lucrative online business, estimated at 10 billion euros, 10% of all gambling in the european union. i am pleased that the rapporteur has struck the necessary balance in an area which is by definition transfrontier and sensitive when it comes to the protection of minors, the fight against illegal gambling, prevention and also addiction. two in particular: - i voted for paragraph 22 in support of the continuation of the many infringement procedures against european law launched by the commission in the face of quasi-monopolies, sometimes in times immemorial. if i understand their freezing back when there was a legal vacuum, they must be reasonably examined and the european commission must play its full role as guardian of the treaties, much to the chagrin of those who hoped to see these procedures simply abandoned. - i also supported paragraph 45, to protect sporting events from outside commercial exploitation and to give the organisers a right of ownership, a good measure which could help to combat sporting fraud.
in writing. the seriousness of the situation of the beekeeping sector in europe and the need to help it by taking concrete measures prompted me to vote in favour of the alternative proposal of the green group. i therefore supported this proposal for several reasons: (1) because it calls on the commission to increase support for research on bee health in the next financial framework and to focus research in particular on disease prevention and control; (2) it seeks to promote the establishment of appropriate national monitoring systems, in close cooperation with beekeepers' associations, and to develop standards at union level to allow for comparisons; the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of pesticides. 4) calls on the commission to improve the methodology for the risk assessment of pesticides and strongly supports the prudent nature of eu legislation on gmos by calling for a moratorium on gm crops until independent studies reveal negative effects on bee health...where other proposals carefully avoided the issue.
in writing. as a signatory to the alternative resolution to the tabajdi report on bee health and the challenges facing the beekeeping sector, i can only deplore the vote by the european parliament this afternoon. a vote that favours the interests of fertiliser and pesticide producers at the expense of bee colonies which are disappearing in many parts of europe. the european parliament has a pressing duty to protect bees and other pollinators so important for the planet and biodiversity. the explanatory memorandum says: '84% of plant species and 76% of food production in europe depend on pollination by bees, whose economic value is much higher than the value of honey produced and estimated at eur 15 billion per year in the eu.' i therefore still hope that a genuine european support plan will be adopted, opening up real prospects for the beekeeping sector. to achieve this, it is imperative to ban the most toxic pesticides such as neonicotinoids and to propose a new agricultural model based on crop rotation and the rational use of pesticides.
in writing. i will start with this one observation: poverty and social exclusion have increased in europe in recent years despite the european union's commitments to reduce them. in 2010, the number of people at risk of poverty was still around 116 million, or more than 20% of european citizens. the resolution, which was voted on at noon (not binding), proposes that member states develop minimum income schemes based on at least 60% of the median income of each eu member state and once again calls on the european commission to work towards legislation to this end. you have to! in addition, in paragraph 73, which i of course supported, the resolution also calls for a framework directive on the quality and accessibility of social services of general interest, particularly in the fields of health, education, public transport, energy, water and communication.
in writing. i voted for the daerden report on the 'european platform against poverty and social exclusion' which aims to draw attention to the precariousness or the risk of precariousness that threatens more than 80 million europeans. this is particularly important when we consider that the economic crisis which has been raging for more than three years is affecting the most vulnerable populations. unlike my group, i also supported paragraph 95 on the european minimum income. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i have to repeat myself a lot. the european union has a social vocation! but it can only exercise the powers which the member states and the european parliament have conferred on it. and when 'europe says no', it is often the states that are blocking! the latest sad tv show about food aid is proof of that. we must therefore continue to fight against these reluctance, scepticism and national selfishness in order to advance this europe of solidarity.
mr president, mr president of the commission, even in your absence, dear colleague! the commission's topics were generally correct, but the tone was not. we really felt that the commission was doing with the 2012 programme what it had already announced in 2011 and was taking it a little less seriously with the timeliness. we are talking about growth, stability, also about credibility. as coordinator of the committee on transport, i would say that you have a key area in which to really get things done in these projects. transport plays a key role for every citizen, so proximity is in. it is a key player for the environment and sustainability, it is also in it, and it is a key player for growth: 10 million jobs in europe and about 7% of gdp. the credibility - and i will come back to what my colleagues are saying to you - depends on how we deal with our decisions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, there are areas where we do not speak with one voice. i will take the example of the single european sky. everyone says it would help everyone, it would save energy and be safer. only the countries are not moving. 27 different opinions instead of one. and the last thing is to go new ways. we now have the project of the transeuropean networks. these can also be an excellent investment in sustainable products. what is this about again? each country wants to have its own little project in it and each country wants to make its own sound. we hope that the commission will implement what it has decided with the council, and that both of us will implement what we are working together to achieve credibility in the outside world in this form.
mr president, after hearing the president of the commission, i should like to say that i am disappointed with other speeches by the commission. indeed, commissioner andor outlined several main lines of the 2012 work programme on employment and social affairs to the employment committee a few months ago. this morning, in the debate on the platform for combating poverty, these and other proposals were reiterated by the commissioner, particularly on employment, young people, social services, the minimum income, child poverty. i also welcome mr andor's proposal for a strengthened budget on this subject, and in particular for the esf. we must give ourselves the means to show more solidarity and, above all, to put these declarations of intent into practice. that 2012 will allow real progress in the fight against poverty and that social protection and employment will not be the targets of a strengthened economic governance, which i did not hear again this afternoon.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 november 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the court of auditors' annual report for 2010, in the presence of mr da silva caldeira, president of the court of auditors.
i would like to focus today on the operation of the regional, social and cohesion funds in 2010, which accounted for almost 37 billion in payments. the court's analysis is sobering. a number of figures have already been mentioned. i won't repeat it. i want to focus on perhaps the most important paragraph in that little chapter. it's called section 425. it reads as follows: 'the court of auditors considers that for 58% of the transactions which were affected by errors, the member state authorities have sufficient information to detect and correct at least some of these errors.' last week the commissioner told us in the committee on budgetary control that three member states, spain, italy and the czech republic, were responsible for two thirds of all these errors. a country like poland, which is by far the largest recipient of all funds, is doing well, with a zero error rate. so it can. and that is why i think - and it has been said by several speakers - that we will have to focus our attention to a large extent on the council in this discharge procedure. the council is not here today again and the finance ministers continue to refuse to sign a declaration clearly stating that their administration, their people who are responsible for the controls, are functioning properly and that indeed no mistakes were made or that in any case they were controlled in a good way. i am therefore increasingly convinced, along with many others, that we must continue to turn the tap on subsidies to those types of member states. we have to suspend payments. we'll have to withhold payments if necessary. we may have to go to the court of justice. i can't go on like this. i think that is the only language that the finance ministers will understand, because then there will be votes in the national parliaments saying: what are you guys doing?
for the greens/efa group madam president, i am not particularly proud to be here either. but very few of us are discussing a convention that deals with issues of immense importance that affect a huge population and a region of the world that is paying an extremely high price, which is ultimately the revealer of all the issues we are asking today, whether it is the issue of climate change, energy issues, financial issues or democratic issues. it is probably in this part of the world, in this continent of africa and in the countries of the caribbean and the pacific that these questions are raised with immense acuteness. the members of parliament who are here, who are probably the ones most interested in participating in the acp-eu joint assembly and perhaps also in the development committee for some of us or in other parliamentary committees, show how isolated we are sometimes in working on such an important issue. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the app is a friend of a few friendly african friends who talk in the sun while taking a little malarone and anti-malaria medicine before they leave, or is it a real instrument? i agree with him on that point: probably a little of both. a little of both, because i think that this house is at once an extraordinary sounding board, a place of debate, of encounter, of unique and valuable dialogue - and i am grateful to the rapporteur for highlighting these extremely positive aspects - but at the same time we must at all costs strengthen the power or the levers of a parliamentary assembly not only on the budgetary aspect but on other aspects as well. i would like to take one example that is close to my heart, and for which i have already made proposals in the context of the reform of the gpa: the monitoring of economic partnership agreements. we have created or duplicated, i would say, by another place, other monitoring places, the monitoring of the economic partnership agreements. whatever one may think about the matter, democratic follow-up is needed. i would argue that the committee on economic affairs of this acp/eu joint assembly should be able to deal with the follow-up of the economic partnership agreements, otherwise what is the point of this. we already have little budgetary power. we certainly have the power to give impetus, to dialogue, to meet, to take account of a series of problems, but if we cannot follow the economic aspect, whatever else is thought and whatever views we may have on the economic partnership agreements, if we cannot, within the apa, follow them, question them and be the monitoring committee for these agreements, which really constitute the heart of economic policies in relations between the european union and these countries, i think we are missing an extremely important point. i come back with the idea that we can reinvest the app committees with real subjects of democratic control, real questions and not just, as we do, in fact, in many places today, motions, resolutions, reflection texts such as the one we have just discussed on precisely all democratic questions, on the rotation in african countries, on a series of questions that are central, but which are ultimately only reference texts. i am calling for us to take power in this house and give ourselves the means to exercise real power as a parliament, as a joint assembly, in relation to an executive working, among other things, on economic partnership agreements. so i think there's a very interesting place there. i ask you and i ask the question, ladies and gentlemen: are we prepared, yes or no, on the occasion of this report and in the future, to go a little further in the application of the joint assembly on a democratic and parliamentary monitoring system a little more powerful than the one we have today, otherwise we may turn into a mere friendship club of the friends of africa, which is quite sympathetic but largely insufficient for the parliamentary function that is ours?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let us come back to reality. yesterday interest rates in the bond market rose to 7.05% for italy. yesterday the interest rates for spain were 6.27% and 3.6% for france. france has triple-a status – exactly the same as germany – but the reality in the markets is that france has to pay double the interest rates of germany. as i am always saying, i do not know what these ratings from the rating agencies mean, but they certainly have no effect on interest rates, because today france has double that of germany. it is obvious that the euro crisis has reached a very dangerous point, a decisive point where everything is possible, even the most dramatic scenario. we are at a point where countries which are europe’s third and fourth economies have interest rates of nearly 7% – which is not sustainable – and where the second biggest economy is paying double that of the benchmark, germany. we first have to recognise that we have to go beyond the decisions of 21 july and 26 october 2011 if we want to deal with this crisis. it is very good, joseph, that france and germany meet each other from time to time – they do it every two weeks – but it is not sustainable and it is not convincing for the markets. their decisions only calm the markets for 24 hours. after 24 hours everything starts again. what we need is not the combining of two important countries in the euro zone, but to stand behind the global approach of the commission. my message today is that we must ask the commission to formalise this package as fast as possible. maybe a number of new elements are needed, but what the commission must do is put an act formalising an economic and fiscal union on the table for the council and the parliament: we are not only talking about the package, we should formalise and legalise this economic and fiscal union. that is the only way we can end the euro crisis of today. do not think that a new two-day summit or a new combined effort by the two big countries can stop it. we need other more formalised, legalised initiatives. what we need is economic governance based on the european commission. i propose that we should end this discussion of who should chair the eurogroup and so on. if we are to have a vice-president who is responsible for the euro, let him also share the eurogroup. let us not continue to multiply functions inside the european union and inside the euro zone. that is the first thing. let us have a convergence code. let us have this green paper and decisions on the green paper. i hope that the green paper on stability bonds can be put before parliament in the coming days. let us also look into the very important proposal made two days ago by the five wise economists of the german council of economic experts. what they have proposed, in a paper directly addressed to ms merkel and the german government, is to create what could be called a european collective redemption fund to neutralise debts of above 60% in the euro zone, combined with a bold debt reduction scheme, for countries who are not using the efsf. that is a fund of eur 2.3 trillion to stabilise the euro crisis. together with the efsf that means that you have firepower of eur 3.3 trillion, based on eurobonds. was it the federalists who proposed that to the parliament? no, it was the five wise economists who are the direct advisors of ms merkel and of the german government. now is the time to do something about that. beyond the 60% threshold, there is only one solution to this crisis, and it is the eurobond market. finally, a word on the question of whether we need a treaty change. i think many things are possible without a treaty change. many things can be done with today’s existing treaty. but if we are to have treaty change, then we also need a convention before this parliament.
if one common policy does not work, then there must be more common policies! that is the axiom, the dogma, as it is professed by the european commission, the council and also by a majority in this parliament. i would like to call on the colleagues to do a reality check. for example, is there any democratic support for the systematic advance towards a kind of super-europe which will also deal with the taxation and social security of the member states? does it make sense to keep a member state which is structurally unsuitable for the eurozone in the eurozone, simply because it refuses to admit past mistakes for ideological reasons? how far can we go in taxing the net payers in the eu? it is time, ladies and gentlemen, that we brought european union policy into line with the reality of the real world, rather than continuing to try to do the opposite.
mr president, in the style of the roman senator cato, i would like to say: greece must leave the eurozone. we all know that greece cannot recover in the euro zone. italy is now paying higher interest rates and we are not finding investors or speculators for the efsf. nobody wants to do it just for the hell of it. we also see that as the problems actually get bigger and the car falls apart, the european leaders want to speed up. mr verhofstadt would rather crash into the wall at 60 miles an hour than take a little gas back. we want to reform the euro area economy; but where are we going? we need competitiveness. but we are doing the opposite with a financial transaction tax, with european taxes and with emissions taxes. we are making the eurozone economy too expensive. we are not competitive, we are not growing and this leads to economic stagnation for years. what we're doing is replacing competition with bureaucratic coordination, and replacing democracy with technocracy. in belgium, the former prime minister eyskens - you know him, mr van rompuy - has already proposed to govern by proxy, which is essentially the suspension of parliament. that is the opposite of all the aims for which european democracy was founded.
i would like to speak today, mr president, not about the increased spread, however alarming, or about a future reform of the treaty, but i would like to speak about democracy in the european union today. i would like to give two examples. the first is from my own country and also from the country of president van rompuy and he is following that closely, i know that , a country where we are still looking for a government and a budget to go with it. in the margins of this debate, a very bitter debate is raging between liberals and social democrats. the liberals believe that the european commission's recommendations should be fully implemented within the framework of this budget. the social democrats think that this should be discussed. mr barroso, you nod your head, but these recommendations have not been adopted by any parliament, neither in this parliament nor in any national parliament. i have heard president juncker correctly, he wants to see more involvement of the national parliaments and of this parliament in the future when it comes to this kind of thing. second example, president van rompuy: you have made an impressive list of all the initiatives that have been taken. impressive, you know? well, certainly deserved. but there are two groups that are not impressed. the first, which is much talked about, is financial markets. not impressed with you. but neither are the people who are coming out on the streets today: the occupy movement, the unions, all kinds of initiatives. gentlemen, don't make the mistake of putting it in the left corner, because there's an important red thread: uncertainty, the demand for work, the future. in a democracy - and i am not going to go into that, mr president - it is not the financial markets but the people who have the final say. it is time we brought that back into the core business of our european project.
mr president, mr barroso, mr van rompuy, you are right, the commission must be the economic government of the union. in fact, it is already so when it prescribes the conduct of the governments of the member states in budgetary matters, but also increasingly in other areas such as social policy. what is wrong is that the policy options which govern these recommendations are chosen behind closed doors between the council and the commission. the only concession you want to make is that the european parliament should be 'informed'. do you not think that national parliaments are being consulted more, because what mrs merkel does at every important juncture when she consults the bundestag, how many heads of state and government do this with regard to their parliament? what we are saying is that there can be no federal economic governance in europe without these broad guidelines being co-decided by the european parliament and without their decision at member state level being co-decided by the national parliaments. taking shortcuts with democracy is the surest way to weaken it. there are enough people in europe who hope for this, our fellow citizens will not accept it.
in writing. the joint parliamentary assembly is a unique institution in the world, an essential player in north/south cooperation, the driving force behind a partnership in which elected representatives respect each other, freely and without taboos confront their opinions in order to forge a freer, fairer and more humane world. the conference has succeeded in creating a forum for open debate, without a priori and where mutual respect is the rule, which allows us to have vibrant, lively, contradictory and enriching debates. it has a real political role. in 2010, we have therefore not ruled out any debate on the fate of the world, whether it be the mdgs, the epas, climate change, food security, haiti, south sudan... in kinshasa, for example, we welcomed the excellent work of dr denis mukwege, who is trying to re-create a future for women who have been victims of sexual violence, and we stressed that impunity for this kind of war is unacceptable. we also discussed the issue of homosexuality in budapest, because every minority, whatever the nature of what makes it a minority, must enjoy the same rights.
in writing. the creation of a european label is a strong message. a better understanding of european history and the history of the european peoples is essential if the younger generation is to feel fully invested in the european project. it is not just a matter of listing our most beautiful sites to promote them, but also of setting up a real educational project, carrying a message of peace and democracy. beauty or excellence is a gift that one gives to another. the other being the world in a way. this label is much more than a look at the past, it is also and above all a full imprint in the present. while some people say that the crisis is not conducive to the development of such a label, it seems to me that it is a serious mistake to always cut back on the cultural aspects. culture is the foundation of positive identities, which defines both the individual and the collective, which makes us exist, as humans and as peoples. it is also, in a way, a mental cement of social cohesion. culture is the foundation on which our organisation and our operations are based.
in writing. i welcome this agreement after 20 (very) long months of negotiations between the council, parliament and the commission. an agreement based on article 167 of the treaty which strengthens european action in the cultural field by creating a 'european heritage label', an initiative designed to strengthen our common identity and sense of belonging to the european union. there was the unesco world heritage site, the "national historic sites" in the united states, and now there will be the european heritage sites. once a year, each member state may submit a historic site for inclusion in this ranking. a jury of experts will select the sites according to their cross-border dimension and their role in european history and construction. at this stage, the european union will simply communicate about the initiative and highlight the sites selected, their management of course remaining the exclusive responsibility of the member states. eventually, pilgrimages can be imagined to all these places that have marked the history of the old continent such as the roman forum, the compiègne clearing, the brandenburg gate, palos de la frontera or... the lion's den of waterloo.
in writing. while freight transport is growing steadily, rail transport has not been able to keep up with other modes of transport, especially road transport. despite eu legislation aimed at halting the decline of the rail sector, its ability to compete with other modes of transport is still hampered by problems due to inadequate infrastructure financing and pricing, persistent barriers to competition and the lack of appropriate regulatory oversight. the railway sector can play a major role in further reducing co2 emissions and in creating a more sustainable transport network. the rail sector must take its fair share of modal transport. the rules governing it need to be strengthened, harmonised and supplemented to make the train more attractive for the transport of passengers and goods. intermodality should be encouraged for both passenger and freight transport. it is also important to make the safety rules as strict as possible.
in writing. i supported this resolution, for which i tabled many amendments in the envi committee last month. the text voted today calls for a comprehensive, fair, ambitious and legally binding international agreement for the period after 2012 (based on the international rules set by the kyoto protocol in respect of the 2°c target) and urges the european union to reaffirm its firm commitment to the kyoto protocol and to take all necessary measures to avoid discontinuity between the commitment periods provided for in this framework. in durban, it is imperative - and i insist - to make progress in implementing the cancun agreements by: setting a deadline by which total global emissions must decline; setting a 2050 ghg emission reduction target and a clear 2050 trajectory that includes global intermediate emission reduction targets, and agreeing on the instruments to be used to achieve those targets. this is vital!
in writing. i have of course supported the resolution on the climate change conference which opens in durban at the end of november. europe's global leadership in this area is also a responsibility. and we have every reason to remain engaged, as the current economic crisis cannot overshadow the climate challenge and its impact on future generations. i am not optimistic, however, after the relative failures in copenhagen and cancun. despite the steady rise in greenhouse gas emissions, the time seems to be running out when it comes to binding global targets. but i am happy to support the complementary approach advocated by the ipcc in its latest report, a catalogue of common sense measures to better protect the most vulnerable - often the poorest - people from the hazards of climate change. prevention of cyclones, floods, droughts or heat waves. recommendations for land use planning: avoid settlement in flood-prone areas or preserve mangroves, which are natural barriers for coastal populations. finally, there is advice on reconstruction, which is too often rushed and which must be given long-term consideration.
in writing. last year, member states (ms) spent only 0.43% of their gni on official development assistance (oda) despite their millennium summit commitment to allocate 0.7% of their gni by 2015 - with an intermediate target of 0.56% for 2010 - to the world's poorest countries. in fact, the financial and economic crisis has since put increasing pressure on national budgets and, as a result, 15 ms had to cut oda budgets in 2009 and 2010. the vote on this report calls on the member states to take steps to honour their commitments and to step up their efforts to ensure the implementation of existing debt relief initiatives for heavily indebted poor countries. but the report also discussed the effectiveness of the aid given that each year the lack of effectiveness of aid leads to a loss of public funds of around eur 6 billion. the eu is aware of this situation and will address the issue at the next forum in busan, korea, in november, which will identify concrete ways to make oda more effective and better used.
in writing. the european audiovisual sector, including cinema, is an important part of the european union's economy. european cinema plays a dual role in today's society, both culturally and economically. the cinema must therefore be seen from two different angles: firstly as a cultural tool, where investments produce intangible results in the long term, and secondly as an important branch of european industry. the process of digitising cinemas has been significantly accelerated in recent years due to the production of digital films, mainly from the united states, as well as the increasing demand from the audience for 3d films. the european cinema is facing a major challenge: adapting to the demands of modern technology. the full digitalisation of the european film industry and its cinemas needs to be completed as a matter of urgency in order to avoid reducing access to cultural diversity and should be supported at european and national levels. european cinema is a vital and important industry which could help to achieve the eu's 2020 objectives. it is therefore necessary to support it during this transitional period.
in writing. nearly one billion cinema tickets sold in 2010 in some 30 000 cinemas in the european union. 1203 films made in europe in 2010 compared to 754 in the us: the european film industry is in good health. the european parliament is proposing to tackle the challenge of adapting cinema to modern technology by voting this afternoon on the borys report on european cinema in the digital age. the digitisation of cinemas is now inevitable: it is less costly for the film industry, it would maintain a competitive european cinema and meet the growing demand of the public for high quality films. these are all reasons for financially supporting the process of adaptation to digital technology, particularly through the media programme. the seventh art is above all an important cultural vehicle and the european union is also intended to promote creativity. the european parliament awarded the lux prize this afternoon, which rewards cinematographic works that illustrate european values. it is therefore only natural that a process of harmonisation of formats and means of screening should be initiated, if only to favour an increased circulation of films in the european union, to promote cultural diversity or simply to offer a cinema ticket at an affordable price...
for the greens/efa group madam president, i am rather astonished that we are in europe and that in telecom we are acting as if we were the sum of a series of 27 micro markets. we have seen it on the radio spectrum issue with gunnar hökmark, we are seeing it on the telephone roaming issue with angelika niebler. we still do not have a single european market, whereas, frankly, in the telecom sector - it is telecommunications anyway - the scale is the most obvious, including legislation. it is true that, as our colleague mr van nistelrooij has said, the netherlands is taking the initiative in defending net neutrality. i will not stress how important this is for us and i will probably not share his conclusions. it is probably important that the european union takes the initiative. to avoid having twenty-seven different pieces of legislation trying to protect a common good which i think is important to this whole parliament, twenty-seven different pieces of legislation which are as many opportunities for network operators to circumvent them by playing regulatory arbitrage between one country and another. and so i will be supporting the idea of a european legislative initiative to avoid this. i would like to say to the presidency that when i hear talk of self-regulation, even if only partial, i feel like taking out my kalashnikov, because when you see how market players - you can think of the banking sector of course but also of telecom operators - have the common interest in mind, i think i will not in any case confide in them.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution before us is important and should be treated with the necessary attention. vat is indeed an important policy instrument and can play a major role in the choices consumers make in purchasing goods or not. this is particularly striking in the book sector. the numbers speak for themselves. the author has already referred to the enormous potential of e-books, by linking it to what has happened in the united states, where it is a huge market. if we really want to give the digital sector a chance, we must follow the same path in europe. a few examples: in italy, only about 7,000 books are said to be available digitally. the vat rate for paper books is 4%, 20% for e-books. in germany the number of titles would be higher, between 30,000 and 40,000. there's a huge difference there, too. seven percent for paper books, 19 percent for e-books. so we are advocating that the reduced rate should also be applied to this category of works. i think that in addition to the internal market argument, which has been mentioned many times, there is also a cultural argument: more and more young people are actually coming into contact with the world of books, of literature, through the digital way. they grew up with it. i think it is important that we take into account that young people, who have less money, also have access to literature and to books in general.
in writing. i supported the brezina report on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013). the text focuses mainly on research (more than 2 billion euros anyway!) but it will not silence the controversy over nuclear energy. the disagreement between member states on energy choices persists and has even taken on a new dimension with the fukushima disaster of 11 march. the research programme must obviously pay particular attention to the safety, nuclear safety and radiation protection standards applied on european territory. it is also necessary to focus on financing projects for geological storage and to create synergies between the worlds of fission and fusion. finally, given the need to ensure europe's energy independence while diversifying energy sources, it is essential to reform the euratom treaty and at the same time involve the european parliament in the various aspects of the nuclear issue. we must bear in mind that nuclear fission still accounts for one third of europe's electricity supply.
in writing. in a globalised world, the internet has become an indispensable tool for entrepreneurs and private individuals alike. the development of high technology and access to high-speed internet should no longer be the preserve of the industrialized countries. the sdcs, to fully enter into globalisation, should be able to use high-quality instruments. access to an internet that is neither censored nor filtered is a reflection of freedom of the press and freedom of expression. however, i think that a european strategy should be developed on internet access, data protection and information.
in writing. cluster munitions pose a grave threat and cause excessive suffering to civilians, especially children, long after the end of military conflicts. the draft text concerning protocol vi to the convention on certain conventional weapons is not compatible with the convention on cluster munitions. the draft protocol prohibits only cluster munitions manufactured before 1980, provides for a long transition period, authorizes the use of cluster munitions with a single self-destruct mechanism and allows the use of cluster munitions with a non-explosive rate of less than 1%. the protocol will therefore undermine the clear and solid international law established by the convention on cluster munitions, which completely prohibits such weapons. i fully share the call on all member states of the european union to refrain from adopting, approving or ratifying any protocol authorising the use of cluster munitions prohibited by the convention. it is important that member states and candidate countries which are not parties to the convention accede to it as a matter of urgency and that the signatory states ratify it as soon as possible.
in writing. the european parliament voted unanimously this afternoon on the resolution on the prohibition of cluster munitions. parliament called on the member states not to deviate from the convention on cluster munitions, which is currently signed by 110 countries, and in particular to reject protocol vi, which will be discussed in geneva this month at the 4th review conference of the convention. this protocol vi could allow the use of cluster munitions produced after 1980 under certain conditions. the opportunity to recall the enormous humanitarian damage these weapons can cause: 98% of their recorded victims are civilians, and 5% to 40% of the cluster munitions do not explode on impact, thus becoming antipersonnel mines. millions of land mines and explosive remnants of war "sleep" in fields and along roadsides in more than 100 countries today, especially in cambodia, afghanistan, angola, and vietnam. they kill or maim for years after the end of a conflict and also create another handicap, that of not being able to exploit the land. this is a major obstacle to development in countries which often desperately need it.
in writing. as a 20-year-old partner of the eu, georgia has made considerable efforts, drawing on the democratic practices of the eu's 27 member states. there's no doubt about his adherence. i strongly encourage the conclusion of this association agreement, which will mark the beginning of ever closer cooperation between the two partners. we must ensure that the democratic process is strengthened. democracy has complex requirements that go beyond the right to vote and the respect of elections. democracy requires the protection of rights and freedoms, respect for the rule of law and the guarantee of free discussion and the encouragement of debate. it is above all freedom of opinion. democracy is constructive opposition, a free and attentive civil society, an independent press.
in writing. i have always advocated the mainstreaming of the gender dimension in most of the reports or resolutions i have voted in the european parliament (for example, the inclusion of this dimension in the europe 2020 strategy). moreover, the practical commitment to enhance the mainstreaming of gender equality and women's empowerment is essential to be strengthened given the limited implementation of existing guidance documents and the very low budgetary resources allocated to gender equality. i also voted in favour of the paragraph which insisted that an effective press and information policy, which systematically takes account of the notion of equality between men and women, must avoid any sexual stereotypes. in short, there is still work to be done!
in writing. today, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing represents between 11 and 26 million tonnes per year, or at least 15% of global catches, making economically, socially and environmentally sustainable management of global marine resources impossible. moreover, illegal fishing undermines fisheries management efforts, threatens the sustainability of fish stocks and food security, and causes market distortions, with significant economic and social impacts on society as a whole, including in developing countries. the report voted on today is therefore important because it calls on the member states and the commission to ensure that illegal fishing at sea is combated and stresses the need to check whether the control mechanisms are sufficient and are actually being implemented. the report also calls for the creation of a 'european coastguard' to develop the common control and inspection capacity to combat illegal fishing.
acting president of the council. mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! this european council is extremely important, that is obvious. i would like to say first of all, on behalf of the polish presidency, that very responsible and important decisions should be taken at this european council meeting, decisions which will determine the shape of the european union in the coming years. this european council and its decisions can greatly shape the european union. this is not just another meeting of leaders who will decide the direction of the council's work, but it is a moment in which we must decide whether we are able to defend the european project and its greatest achievement - or one of the greatest achievements - the euro, with full determination and using all the instruments at our disposal. i would therefore like to give a more detailed, though brief, outline of the main issues to be discussed at this council meeting, in agreement with the president of the european council. if you look at the agenda of the european council, you will, of course, see that the european council will review the overall economic situation and will return to the question of promoting growth in europe. furthermore, heads of state and government will track progress on the implementation at national level of the commitments under the euro plus pact, with particular attention to jobs and tax issues. i would also like to remind you that the president of the european council will inform the heads of state and government of the reflections on the strengthening of economic convergence within the euro area, on improving fiscal discipline and on deepening economic union, including exploring the possibility of limited treaty change. as you know, the presidency will also contribute with ideas on strengthening the unity and convergence of the european union and we will do this in the light of the forthcoming general affairs council on monday. on energy, the european council will track progress on the implementation of guidelines set in february 2011, in particular as regards energy efficiency, the internal energy market, energy infrastructure development and external energy policy. it will also assess the initial findings of the nuclear stress tests. there are, in addition, a number of other items to be addressed by the european council. the european council will take the required decisions on the possible next steps for accession countries. it may well also have to come back to the issue of schengen accession by romania and bulgaria. finally, it may also need to address the situation in iran. i should also mention that the european council is expected to take note of the presidency report on the multiannual financial framework. now, if i may, i shall say a few more words on economic policy and on enlargement. on the european economy, it is clear that the economy has taken a turn for the worse. deteriorating confidence and intensified financial turmoil are affecting investment, exports and consumption. it is important that the union's new economic governance be fully implemented with a view to building confidence in the strength of the european economy. the presidency fully agrees with the commission's assessment in its recent annual growth survey that now the stress must be on implementation. we have taken on many commitments. in some areas progress has been good, but in others it has been more measured or basically, in less diplomatic terms it has been quite weak. structural reforms and differentiated fiscal consolidation efforts must continue to lay the ground for a return to sustainable growth and thus help to improve confidence in the short term. measures are also required in order to help restore normal lending to the economy while preventing excessive risk-taking. the priority must be to boost jobs and growth; this is why the european council is expected to support the principle of a fast-track programme of measures, as set out by the commission. this would mean the council and the european parliament working together to ensure the rapid adoption of a number of key legislative proposals, something which i know is also dear to you, mr president. the annual growth survey launches the next european semester, which will be the first to be implemented as part of the recently strengthened economic governance, including the new procedure for monitoring and correcting macroeconomic imbalances. this is really crucial. we strongly believe that those new mechanisms can make a real difference. the spring european council will review progress and adopt the required guidance. regarding the euro plus pact and its objectives, the heads of state and government taking part in the pact will review progress made in implementing the commitments at national levels; they are expected to focus on employment. let me just mention, to close this part on economic policy, three principles that the presidency would like to see guide this european council. firstly, more unity within the 27. secondly, more europe, so enhanced coordination and strengthened economic governance. and thirdly, strengthened institutions, so that whatever we do, we do it within the institutional framework of the european union and we ensure that there is a proper legitimacy for the measures which we adopt if we decide to go forward with the treaty revision. there should be an appropriate enhancement of the role of the european commission, but also there should be a place for the democratically elected institution of the european union, obviously the european parliament. my final remark is about enlargement. i would like to inform the house that we expect prime minister kosor to take part in the european council as observer after the signature of the treaty of accession of croatia. as you know, enlargement has been a priority for the polish presidency, to show that despite the difficult times, the european union is still open and we are still very serious about our open-door policy. we look forward to croatia becoming the 28th member of the european union on 1 july 2013. on monday, the general affairs council will discuss the situation of the other candidate and accession countries. this will not be an easy discussion. the presidency has worked very intensively to prepare a set of conclusions for the gac, which once agreed should be endorsed by the european council.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i have been invited to discuss the preparations for next week’s european council with you on behalf of president barroso. the european council will, of course, take place in an extremely challenging economic and political environment. its focus will inevitably be on the economic situation and on the measures we have proposed to restore confidence in the euro area and the european economy. it is clear that our room for manoeuvre is now much more constrained than two years ago. to respond to the current situation, the commission has utilised the current treaty’s scope to the maximum and proposed forceful measures to complete the economic and monetary union. economic governance is being strengthened and mechanisms to address the financial crisis have been already been put in place. last wednesday the commission adopted the growth and governance package, which consists of three parts. the annual growth survey spells out our view of the policy priorities in the coming 12 months to restore macrofinancial stability and boost sustainable growth. two proposals for new regulations will further reinforce economic and budgetary surveillance in the euro area. the feasibility study on stability bonds examines the potential benefits for financial stability of jointly issued bonds and the preconditions for their possible introduction. the annual growth survey launches the next european semester of economic governance by setting out the commission’s views on the challenges and priorities for next year. this survey is being published at a time when the eu is going through the most challenging times of its history. it sets the following priorities for 2012. first, to continue with fiscal consolidation, which has to be differentiated across countries, as we agreed in october. we also have to pay more attention to the impact of consolidation on growth. in this respect, it is essential to analyse carefully which expenditure we can reduce and how we can raise revenue in the member states. second, that normal lending to the economy has to be restored. it is necessary to strengthen the banking sector via appropriate regulation and recapitalisation and set up credible financial backstops for banks and sovereigns in order to break the negative feedback loop between the two sectors. third, structural policies are key to reviving growth at the current juncture, when macroeconomic policies are heavily constrained. this means that structural reforms have to be stepped up, especially in services, network industries, the public sector and the digital economy. fourth, unemployment and other social consequences of the crisis have to be tackled. reforms are necessary to make labour markets more flexible and conducive to job creation. the final priority of the survey is to modernise public administration at all levels in the member states and in the union. you may say that some of these priorities are not new. this is correct and it is deliberate. we have already made so many commitments that now we have to really focus on their implementation and concrete results. the discussions of the annual growth survey will culminate in the march european council, after which the national programmes are prepared in the light of the guidance from the heads of state and government. in parallel, you in the european parliament should also debate the annual growth survey and make your views known before the work on member states’ programmes starts. to my mind, that is a very important opportunity for the european parliament to influence policy-making in the member states in this regard. to conclude on the annual growth survey, i want to underline the following once more. without swift and determined implementation these priorities will do none of us any good, nor help achieve sustainable and inclusive growth. i have full confidence that in the european parliament you will help accelerate the adoption of what is currently on your desks in the codecision procedure. as part of the package we also proposed two regulations based on article 136 for the euro area member states. these present a major step forward in euro area fiscal and economic integration. they build on the ‘six pack’; they complete the european semester with rules for the second part of the year and establish a link between intergovernmental financial assistance and treaty-based surveillance. the first regulation proposes the introduction of binding rules for balanced budgets into national legislation, preferably at constitutional level. it also requires independent forecasts to be used as the basis of budgetary plans and draft budgets. but, most importantly, it proposes tight monitoring of national budgets, which you have been calling for. we propose a harmonised budgetary timeline with draft budget laws to be submitted to the commission by 15 october every year. the commission will then assess these draft national budgets against the country specific recommendations and against possible edp recommendations. should the draft clearly not be in line with the recommendations, the commission can ask for a new draft. the commission is ready to present its opinion in the national parliament of the country concerned if requested. when a member state is in the excessive deficit procedure, the commission can issue recommendations for additional measures. the second regulation specifies the modalities for enhanced monitoring of euro area member states – those member states who are receiving financial assistance or are suffering from risks to their financial stability and to that of the euro area as a whole. it allows enhanced surveillance of a country that is considered to be at risk with regard to financial stability, even without a programme. finally, it proposes that the commission will have the right to propose to the council to recommend a member state to seek financial assistance if the member state concerned is posing a risk to financial stability, especially that of the euro area or europe as a whole. this should be done on the basis of the commission’s analysis in liaison with the european central bank. this proposal stems from recent experience, as we have seen that this has posed a genuine problem to the financial stability of the euro area. the fragmented european sovereign bond market is currently under great stress. investors require substantial risk premiums on the sovereign bonds of some euro area member states. this situation has revived interest in jointly issued euro area bonds to create a large and liquid bond market in europe. as part of the deal on the ‘six pack’ between the european parliament and the council, the commission presented a green paper on stability bonds last week. its key findings are, firstly, that jointly issued stability bonds would be likely to produce substantial benefits in terms of reducing and stabilising borrowing costs for member states by providing better shock resilience for the financial sector and improving market efficiency over time. secondly, however, as common bonds would reduce the market discipline of individual member states, their introduction would only be meaningful on the condition that euro area economic governance were to be substantially further strengthened. the ‘six pack’ constitutes the foundations for reinforced economic governance and last week’s proposals represent a further step in the direction of stronger economic governance. but we would have to go far beyond these reforms to facilitate a safe introduction of stability bonds, which would most probably require amendment to the treaty. before concluding, let me say a few words on treaty change. let us be clear: a treaty change cannot offer an immediate contribution to the solution to the current crisis. but it is true that, by working to embed stricter discipline and stronger governance into the euro area in particular, we may help to prevent a future crisis by creating a real stability union. the president of the european council was asked, with the presidents of the commission and the euro group, to identify possible steps on further reinforcing economic convergence within the euro area, including exploring the possibility of limited treaty changes. these deliberations are ongoing and an interim report will be presented to the european council. the commission’s view is that any treaty change should be based on the principle of one union, based on the current institutional framework, which is clearly exemplified by the community method. european integration can only be achieved by a single legal framework of one union. that is the best way to build a real stability union, in fact a true economic union. equally importantly, only the community method can guarantee consistency between european economic monetary policy and all other eu policies as well as the completion of the single market. that is the guarantee of the fair and just treatment of the member states and eu citizens. i trust both the european parliament and eu member states will stick to this and be ready to justify the benefits of the community method vigorously in future negotiations too. furthermore, in the event of any of revision of the treaties, balance has to be maintained. we all know that there will be diverging views – some will want to put more weight on stability, while others might wish to place more emphasis on stimulating growth. some will call for more solidarity and others will want more discipline. it will be essential and extremely important to incorporate all these elements in future work so that the end result will be a balanced set of rules ensuring both stability and solidarity, which are at the heart of the european social model. i can second what the minister said as regards energy policy, that this is a key element on the agenda. likewise the european council will take important decisions concerning the schengen accession of bulgaria and romania. let me express the commission’s view on this. it is very clear: we expect that the council will take the decision to lift internal border controls with romania and bulgaria without any further delay. we fully support the efforts made by the presidency for a compromise solution. splitting into two phases the decision on lifting internal border controls is feasible and politically sound. the second stage – the decision on the lifting of internal border controls at land borders – can then be taken without undue delay. finally, a word on enlargement and the accession treaty of croatia, which is very close to my heart and to which commissioner stefan füle will return after this debate. real progress has been made during the last year with all countries – progress in which the cooperation with the european parliament plays a significant role. the commission has already given its favourable opinion on croatia’s accession and we hope that the vote tomorrow will pave the way for the council’s decision and the signature of the treaty on 9 december. but i will leave the details to my colleague and will just say that this is a historic turning point for croatia and a very important benchmark for accession by the rest of the western balkans to the european union. let me conclude. in terms of the european economy and economic policy, we have indeed arrived at the point in time where serious choices and commitments have to be made. the economic and monetary union will either have to be completed through much deeper integration or we will have to accept a gradual disintegration of over half a century of european integration. this is a choice that needs to be consciously taken by the governments of the euro area member states and by all european citizens and their representatives in the national parliaments and here in the european parliament. our choice is clear. it is a choice for an ever closer union for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation in europe and thus for the sake of legitimacy and, not least, for the sake of the future of european unification. this is what is at stake. i trust you will also make the choice for european unification and for these objectives, because that is what our citizens expect. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think that the end game is coming closer. according to the specialised press – i am quoting the financial times of today – international companies have started preparations for the break-up of the euro zone. that is the reality today. italy yesterday managed to raise eur 8 billion on the markets at an interest rate of 7.56% and the yield for three-year bonds was even higher, nearly 8%. and it is not only a question of italy or a question of spain or a question of greece or a question of ireland, for a few days now it has also been a question of germany, which is not capable of raising the necessary money in its own auction that it launched a few days ago. so i think that we are fast approaching the breaking point of the euro. let us be blunt about this, it is not because of greece and it is not because of italy. it is because of the incapacity of the two main players today in european politics, the incapacity of merkel and sarkozy to deal with this crisis. that is the euro crisis of today; their incapacity to find a solution. (applause and heckling)i think there are a few germans here, the supporters of mrs merkel. well, today merkel and sarkozy are not the solution; i think they are the obstacle to the solution of the crisis. let us be clear. merkel is excluding eurobonds, is resisting a bigger role for the european central bank; she is even against the idea of her own wise economists. in other words she is denying greater solidarity. that is the german position. sarkozy, for his part, is opposing a real fiscal union. in other words, yes, he is in favour of a fiscal union but in reality he still wants a political reading of the sanctions mechanism, and he is even opposed to the fact that the european court of justice should have the right to intervene in the budget. so in fact the french position of today is still defending the old ‘deauville deal’, as if the parliament had not changed the deauville deal and the ‘six pack’, and has voted another ‘six pack’ a few months ago as if there were no euro crisis. so let me say it very openly. it is true that germany and france have, in the past, made agreements which have been beneficial and important for the union; today, however, they form an obstacle to the survival of the union. today all who do not want to give up the union and the euro have, in my opinion, to stand up and to say no to this; we have had enough of their half measures, their bad compromises and their deals that only calm the markets for 24 hours, which is the only thing they are capable of doing for the moment. the time is right today to say yes to an economic union, to a political union, yes to a eurobond market and yes to the proposal of the five wise germans. it is time to say yes again to the euro. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i listened to mr verhofstadt who again supported the idea of eurobonds. i would just like to know whether this idea and his speech are supported by the members of the german liberals, of whom i see no representatives here, and whether he also has the support of the dutch liberals of the vvd. i would like to know whether he speaks on behalf of his own group or whether mr verhofstadt speaks on behalf of himself.
mr president, i think that mr eppink is not following politics very well here in this parliament. i can understand that maybe, but the fdp has backed the idea of the ‘five wise men’, the german economists, for the creation of a european collective redemption fund. mr lambsdorff has published an article in die welt – mr eppink has not read it – saying that this collective redemption fund is the solution. what i do not understand is that germany can accept it here in this plenary session of the european parliament but the problem is not here; the problem is in berlin, where for the moment the german government, and mainly mrs merkel, does not want to follow the advice of her own advisers, her own counsellors, who are saying that the only way to tackle the problem is to create this collective redemption fund, where you put together the debt above 60% of those countries which are not using the rescue fund, and combine that with very bold debt reduction schemes for all the countries. this is on paper. it is in the press. what are you waiting for? i think what some people are waiting for is the end of the euro and only then... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, i will first address you. i think our fellow citizens are well aware that we are living in difficult times and that considerable efforts are needed. three conditions are necessary for these efforts to be accepted by our fellow citizens. the first condition is that these efforts must be fair. experience shows that in the adaptation plans, in the structural reform plans which your commission and your directorate-general impose on the member states which are currently under a programme, the criterion of social justice is far from being respected. the second condition is that the efforts requested must be credible enough to be recognised as providing a solution. and that's another long way off. two years into the sovereign debt crisis, we don't feel like we're getting out of it. thirdly, that the efforts required should be made with democratic legitimacy. i am speaking to you about the two proposals you made last wednesday. i am really concerned when you want to give the commission, the vice-president of the commission, powers to supervise the budgets of the member states, powers to intervene directly in the affairs of the member states, without any concern for what is called checks and balances in the united states, in other words the democratic legitimization of solutions. i have no problem, as a democrat, with acknowledging that i may be ideologically in the minority. i have a problem when an ideology is imposed without any democratic control whatsoever. today, if the measures you recommend are voted by this parliament, i will accept them. but when they are decided behind closed doors by a dg ecfin that operates without any control, that is something that no one in europe can accept.
i wanted to vote in principle on the question of croatia's accession to the european union, and i voted in favour. but it's a "yes, but". on the one hand, croatia is a european country, which is not the case for all the other applicant countries, and must therefore be able to take its place in the european union. on the other hand, there are still a number of problems in croatia. i am thinking, among other things, of the problem of corruption. these problems must be tackled and resolved before the country can effectively join the european union. only if the country meets all the full copenhagen criteria should it be able to join the european union.
i voted against the report on hiv and aids. not that i have anything against people infected with hiv or aids receiving the best possible care or that more resources are being devoted to developing drugs. i have a problem with the fact that in such a report there are things that have nothing to do with the actual subject. i am referring, for example, to paragraph 22, which calls for - and i quote - safe and legal abortion. the european union is not to interfere in such matters. this is a matter for the member states, and if there are member states which do not want legal abortion, then it should be perfectly possible. the report rightly calls for the respect of the rights, including the privacy, of people who are infected, but it does not address the question of how people who have to deal with infected people, such as doctors, dentists and nurses, can be protected when they are unaware of the infection of a patient. it is a serious matter, but it is also a problem that urgently needs to be discussed. the protection of society must also be possible.
in writing. in the context of a european union which aims to be the first knowledge-based economy, ms honeyball's report is particularly relevant. it is irrational to cut budgets such as education at national level, because that is precisely what will lead the european union to a deep economic crisis. today's youth are tomorrow's brains and arms. a system of exchange of good practice in this area is necessary, as national situations differ widely. the need to combat this scourge is all the more urgent because it has been shown that the people with a degree will be the ones who will be favoured in the near future. if we do not do everything we can to combat early school leaving, then the europe of knowledge, the europe of citizens and the europe of responsibility will have failed.
in writing. more than 6 million adolescents leave the school system without a diploma. it is a problem common to all member states and one which is growing rapidly, which is why the european parliament has dealt with the matter by voting this afternoon on a resolution on school drop-outs. recent figures show that 52% of young people who have left school without a diploma are unemployed and will add to the battalion of 5.5 million unemployed young people. this is simply unacceptable and untenable, in the long run, if we want to preserve social cohesion and intergenerational solidarity in our western societies. this is why we should welcome the interesting proposals in the honeyball report: the extension of compulsory schooling from 16 to 18 years of age, and the creation of more 'second chance' schools, as the one-size-fits-all approach does not suit all young people in school. because reversing the dropout rate is not something that can be done by decree, and it requires investment in education. it is also necessary to give new value to technical courses and to ensure that a diploma gives the right to a job. right and not chance: this is the dilemma to be resolved in the field of education.
in writing. the development cooperation financing instrument has a budget of around €17 billion for the period 2007-13. it aims to eradicate poverty, promote democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. this is a matter of the utmost importance, because it concerns the fight against poverty. at the g20 in cannes, heads of state and government reiterated the crucial role of official development assistance in achieving the millennium development goals. i sincerely hope that this commitment will be translated into reality. the commission has also taken the initiative in the field of the environment. the fact that a comprehensive compromise was accepted in a spirit of conciliation is due to the need to reach a solution quickly. nevertheless, it is essential that in future co-legislators should be placed on an equal footing.
in writing. - i abstained on the report because the country has already made a great effort but does not yet meet the necessary criteria. at the moment, the eu should be working to improve its internal cooperation and strengthen its economic and social policies, rather than welcoming new members and raising hopes in these countries, as in the countries that have recently joined the eu, which will be largely disappointed. europe will be bigger, but not better, and certainly not stronger.
in writing. since its independence, croatia has shown its willingness to build strong relations with the european union. the reform of its administrative system and the ever-intensified fight against corruption are proof of this. croatia will have to continue these efforts, as the accession planned for july 2012 is not the end of a process but the beginning of a long and ever closer cooperation. an accompanying mechanism should be maintained, as part of a relationship of trust between the european union and croatia. this ensures that the ins and outs of membership are favourable to everyone. in the future, zagreb will have to continue to fight corruption and organised crime. it will have to address judicial reform, prosecute war criminals, encourage the return of refugees and ensure that all the recommendations of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty) are respected. as mr barroso has rightly said, 'enlargement is a matter of credibility'. i am convinced that croatia will be a credible and trustworthy 28th member state.
in writing. by giving its assent to croatia's accession to the european union, the european parliament opened the way for the accession and ratification procedure of this country by the 27 member states of the current european club. this agreement should be endorsed by the european council on 9 december with a view to the formal accession of croatia on 1 july 2013. the time has certainly passed for the festivities which marked the ceremonies for the enlargement of the union to 10 new states on 1 june 2004. however, it is important to welcome this jewel of the mediterranean as it should be - with enthusiasm and firmness. spontaneous, not default, accession is necessary in view of the efforts made by the croatian population, and also in view of its standard of living and the croatian economic situation, which are much better than the indicators of other states at the time of their accession. the crisis that has been ravaging the union since 2009 also implies firmness towards new entrants, who must be part of a virtuous circle: strict budgets, unremitting fight against corruption and for transparency. this is a message that the croatian authorities must also hear!
in writing. croatia has enjoyed broad support from the other member states throughout the accession process. our neighbour has not failed to emphasise the values we share, and this is an essential element. by joining the european union in 2012, croatia will strengthen its role and its contribution to the establishment of an area of stability in south-east europe. i urge our future 28th member state to establish closer cooperation with serbia in the area of justice and the prosecution of war criminals. accession should also be an opportunity for croatia to maintain bilateral relations with the other balkan countries, thus reaffirming its central position in the region.
in writing. the code of conduct for meps adopted this afternoon responds to the need for greater transparency and clarity in our day-to-day work in the european parliament. it also responds to the recent scandals caused by a few colleagues who were paid to defend special interests, an unqualifiable attitude which was immediately denounced by the presidency of parliament and the national and european parties which were quick to exclude these black sheep. among the new rules: more transparency and control over members' declarations of financial interests, a clear definition of conflict of interest, the obligation to refuse any gift worth more than 150 euros, and the establishment of a peer review committee. however, and to quote a colleague who knows the meaning of the phrase: "just because you catch someone's hand in the jam pot, you don't have to ban jam". despite the strictest rules and punishments, you will not eliminate abuse. integrity is not a command, it's a practice. and it is above all a matter of moral duty, personal ethics, a sense of responsibility. these are all values that we don't compromise.
in writing. the euro crisis is closely linked to divergences between member states on their economic and fiscal policies. the establishment of a 'european semester' or 'economic governance' was therefore essential. this new tool for the coordination of the union's economic and budgetary policies is intended to verify the application of budgetary discipline by the member states and to monitor the proper implementation of the europe 2020 programme by ensuring that it has sufficient financial resources. with the introduction of the european semester, we have taken a further step on the road to european integration. however, it must be remembered that parliamentary debate on the broad guidelines of economic policy is the cornerstone of any democratic system. we cannot ignore the democratic debate. i therefore fully support mrs berès' call for full transparency on the amendments introduced after discussion with the member states on the country-specific recommendations.
in writing. according to the report published by who and unaids, 2.7 million people were infected with hiv in 2010 and 34 million people are living with hiv. prevention of hiv/aids through effective information is still essential. the condom, the only effective means of protection against hiv/aids, should be available free of charge or at low cost. similarly, anonymous and free testing should be at the heart of a european prevention campaign. efforts in sub-saharan africa, including rwanda, namibia and botswana, are to be commended, with an overall annual increase of 30% in the number of people receiving antiretroviral treatment. the economic crisis must not be a brake or a barrier to the application of new technologies and new approaches to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of hiv programmes.
in writing. on this world aids day, it is important that the european parliament sends a strong and consistent message. even with the extraordinary progress made so far in hiv prevention and testing, it is essential to remain vigilant and maintain a target of "zero spread" of the epidemic. this is the message that the european parliament is sending today, by adopting a resolution calling for more equitable access to testing, treatment and care, and thus reducing the number of hiv infections. more than 27 000 people are infected in europe each year, including 1196 in belgium in 2010, or more than three a day. while the impact of antiretroviral drugs is very effective - there are far fewer deaths from aids today - a relaxation of sexual vigilance or a trivialization of infection is not tolerable. hiv is very complex and still raises many questions, for example about the problem of co-infection, particularly with tuberculosis and viral hepatitis b and c. the european parliament resolution is part of an ongoing effort to find a much-anticipated vaccine.
in writing. since ukraine's independence in 1992, the european union has steadily developed bilateral relations with its eastern neighbour. the many resolutions which have recently been voted in parliament are in this direction. the association agreement between the european union and ukraine is naturally part of this positive and constructive logic. the conclusion of such an agreement should, beyond the shared economic benefits, lead ukraine to progress towards a state based on the rule of law, a state guaranteeing democracy and the fundamental rights of its citizens. democracy has complex requirements that go beyond the right to vote and the respect of elections. democracy requires the protection of rights and freedoms, respect for the rule of law, and the guarantee of free discussion and the encouragement of debate. it is above all freedom of opinion. the majority does not allow the tyranny of the majority. democracy is constructive opposition, a free and caring civil society, an independent press.
in writing. an effective customs union is one of the essential elements of the european integration process and forms the basis for the free movement of goods, economic development and growth in the internal market. to play their full role, customs must be modern, cooperative, responsive and efficient. to this end, member states must provide customs with sufficient resources, in particular for the development of computer systems, in order to achieve the necessary modernisation of customs. an effective customs policy plays a vital role in protecting intellectual property rights and in combating the illegal entry of counterfeit goods and products into the european market. it therefore improves safety and security for european consumers. the modernisation of customs procedures should not, however, create unnecessary burdens, especially for smes. the need for consistency in the management of the external borders of the european union is a necessity, and it is important to ensure greater harmonisation of customs control and sanction systems.
question for the council madam president, i am simply very surprised by mr szegedi's speech. if i understand correctly, everyone here agrees that this text is welcome, and that it is a considerable step forward in the protection of victims. i would like to ask him clearly, beyond his speech, whether he will vote against this advance. that's all i want to know.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this decision on european protection was called for by the spanish presidency two years ago. we did it. it is true that it concerns only 12 member states at the moment. it is true that it still applies only to criminal law. but we have paved the way. we will allow thousands of victims to enjoy the full benefits of freedom of movement in the european union. they will finally be able to exercise this fundamental right recognized in the universal declaration of human rights. there will be no barriers to moving or simply going on holiday in another eu country. they will be protected in the same way as they are currently in their country of residence. this european protection decision proclaims that the european union protects all its citizens, beyond their national territory. i congratulate the rapporteurs, the council and the commissioner on their work and determination. i look forward to the adoption of the european decision on civil protection and to its extension to all the member states of the european union.
i am surprised that the european parliament, which is supposed to represent the peoples of europe, has so little critical feeling about immigration. immigration, which in the last decades has brought with it so much alienation, so much uprooting, and also so much criminality, the real cost of which in most of our european countries must be said to be enormous for our society. i am not going to be so foolish as to compare the so-called blue card for highly educated people with the mass immigration of non-europeans in recent decades. but i am, and i remain, extremely suspicious of the official european policy which is being reaffirmed here today. and it is still, despite the reality, despite the dramatic unemployment rates and against all common sense, an ideological choice for mass immigration. and as for this so-called legal immigration, even the highly educated: what happens to legal and semi-legal immigration in the wake of the immigration of those so-called highly educated? who guarantees that these people will also leave when the highly educated leave? i continue to have a very difficult time with an economic policy that is bent backwards on immigration, that keeps causing problems. that has been completely wrong in the past and we must learn from it.
the common european asylum and immigration policy, mr president, is faced with an architectural problem. the foundations of the whole system, namely the abolition of border controls at internal borders, coupled with the control of external borders, are cracked. as we all know, the external borders are not effectively and efficiently controlled. instead of putting the foundations of the system in order, the european union is constantly trying to extend and make it more durable. the introduction of a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a member state is a new step towards an immigration policy which is entirely conceived and organised by the european union, without the member states having the right to pursue their own policies, to put their own accents in their policies, to respond to their own problems in accordance with the wishes of their voters. this is a far-reaching measure that undermines an essential element of the democracy of the member states, namely the right to decide for themselves who enters their territory and under what conditions. it is therefore obvious that i shall vote against that proposal.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i shall speak in my mother tongue because i do not think english is appropriate today. it took belgium more than 540 days to form a government and everyone has been pissed off. but today, the euro crisis has lasted more than 700 days, and we must be honest here and admit that we still have no control over it and that the end is not in sight. i think that we should first of all - and this has not yet happened here - underline the positive aspects of the recent summit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the casino compromise, you remember that. the deal between sarkozy's obsession and merkel's curse. the obsession of sarkozy, who thinks - and i think he still thinks - that he and the large member states should run the eurozone and not the european institutions, not the european commission. that is an illusion that has now been definitively thrown overboard, and that is good, because that is also the way to end the impunity that france and germany had proclaimed for themselves in 2003 for not applying the rules, because they themselves were in breach. i think that on friday - and that is also a positive thing - we also put an end to the merkel curse, namely the idea that private investors in government bonds should share in the spoils. that sounded good, of course, and it sounded good here in this parliament too, but in reality, as trichet has already pointed out in the past, it has cost us billions of euros and has only made the euro crisis worse. i think we can be happy today that this summit has achieved that. two of them come out of the top with big smiles: sarkozy and merkel. and why are they laughing? the fact that we ended their deal they made a year ago. because that is what this summit has produced. but is that enough? are the american, asian and european investors who have dumped masses of european sovereign bonds in recent days and weeks going to return? will they invest again in shares of european financial institutions, mainly french financial institutions which themselves hold portfolios of these government bonds? well, i don't think it is. perhaps this agreement will be enough to stop the bloodshed? but to restore confidence in the euro, i think it is unfortunately not enough. why would you do that? the european council has only dealt with one aspect of the problem, namely the aspect of budgetary discipline. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the council will take a decision on the matter. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's not just solidarity, it's also discipline. discipline without solidarity is no union, and solidarity without discipline is a bottomless pit. i think we should not hesitate any longer, mr president. the crisis must be tackled globally and in depth. and let's face it, this is the best way to do it. the council is not competent to do so. the council has met so many times. two years in a row, with half-hearted measures every time. i think that we as a parliament must take the lead here, we must find a way out of the crisis. and ask the commission to put forward, in the coming weeks, together with the european parliament, a global approach from both the council and parliament. finally some words in english to our british friends. i think that after a few nights david cameron will also come to the conclusion that he made the blunder of a lifetime. if mr. cameron really wants to obtain additional guarantees for the city he needs to be at the negotiation table. - why? - why? because in politics there is one golden rule: you only walk away if you're sure that the others will come after you to win you back. that is the reality. kohl and mitterrand did it with mrs thatcher. to use an english expression for our british friends: when you're invited to the table, it's either as a guest or you're part of the menu. dear colleagues, that can happen now. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149 (8))
the answer is "blue cardboard". i thought that was a question for mrs wortmann-kool, because she's in government. mr. daul, let's get serious about this! if there is a political party in this house at the moment which defends the interests of the european community, it is the liberal democrats in england who dare to say no to mr cameron today. who else would it be?
president. - the french presidential candidate, françois hollande, has recently written a book entitled le rêve français. he'll need a book to do that, but i can tell you in one line: that dream is le beurre et l'argent du beurre. it is the dream of the butter and the money of the butter. that is not only the french dream, it is also the european dream. but the money's gone now. and what do we do? we blame others. we say that it is the fault of speculators, as mr schulz has done, a demagogy of the 1930s. but there are pension funds and investment funds. and the chinese investment fund, that's the investors. you blame the british. the british who, in unexpected times, have made the right analysis of the euro. they said it was a dangerous project. they've been proven right this time, and you can't have that. that is the frustration of the rottweilers of european federalism who are here now shouting. this european union needs investors. but what do we do? we're bringing in a financial transaction fee. even the ecb is against it. you are not making the eurozone a zone of stability, mr barroso, you are making it a zone of stagnation and that is where the euro will collapse!
mr president, it was expected that this debate would turn into a sort of therapeutic session for the federalist colleagues for the umpteenth time. there is indeed a systemic flaw in the eurozone, and that systemic flaw is that the socioeconomic fabric of the member states is too different to make the eurozone function in a sustainable and healthy way. it may be a depressing reality, but it's the reality. so we urgently need to break the taboo of a smaller but stronger eurozone. if we as a parliament are to be taken seriously, we should therefore adopt realistic positions and move away from the systematic flight forward. the systematic steps towards euro bonds and a central bank, a european central bank, which controls inflation. the collectivization of the debts, as the majority of this parliament wants, will certainly reinforce the problems in the long run rather than solve them. it will lead to belgian situations, to a situation of total unmanageability.
i would like to begin by congratulating the president of the european council. the european council in madrid, in the context of the european council in madrid, has been a very positive and positive step towards the establishment of a european union. there has been absolutely no progress on immediate action and i believe that we now have a strong firewall and sufficient solidarity. the necessary depth has been achieved in terms of budgetary discipline and integration, both in terms of rules and in terms of monitoring and enforcement, and in this respect 2011 has been a real copernican revolution. but the new budgetary agreement, mr president, is what i am really worried about. both in the method and in the form. for how is that treaty to be brought about? what institutions will be staffing it? what about democracy, the community method? , what master craftsman will be able to harmonize the decisions taken within the treaty of lisbon on the one hand and outside the treaty of lisbon on the other? i would like to conclude by asking the president of the commission: we must not now focus on the economic pillar, on implementing the europe 2020 strategy and on ensuring economic growth, competitiveness and job creation. we have criteria in our stability and growth pact, but they have not only a numerator but also a denominator.
mr president, mr barroso, mr van rompuy - i see he is no longer here - greece has presented us with a case of notorious budgetary misconduct. but if i look at portugal, spain or ireland, i do not see a problem of budgetary discipline at the root of the problem. if i look at italy, the debt is very high, but the budgets have deficits that are less than those that germany had when it blew up the stability and growth pact. all this to say that the problems we are facing are far from limited to budgetary discipline. and yet, what do we hear from the council and the commission? the problem is budgetary discipline and the only solutions are budgetary discipline solutions, and we shall have solved the whole problem. i can only conclude that the agenda which is being presented to us is ideologically motivated and has less and less to do with the reality we are facing.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i read this morning in the german press that in recent weeks several british municipalities have cancelled their twinning partnerships with sister french and german municipalities. this is apparently a direct outgrowth of the cameron government's eurosceptic attitude. it shows what the present british government's european policy is leading to. it's absolutely shameful. we expect our british friends not to want to deliberately infect their local governments with an anti-european virus. the exchange between citizens and associations from all over europe is one of the most concrete instruments for giving european citizenship a concrete form on the ground. we count on the british local authorities to continue to respond to the twinning projects with loyalty and enthusiasm. the commission will be presenting the new multiannual programme 'europe for citizens' tomorrow.
the 'last chance summit' has now become a 'missed opportunity summit'. after a weekend of deliberation, the judgement of "the markets" leaves little room for interpretation: the credit rating agencies are preparing their credit cuts and yesterday italy was still paying almost 6% interest - and this despite the accession of mario monti and his technocratic cabinet - under pressure from 'the markets' and europe. this is the most worrying and fundamental trend of the euro crisis. it has created a huge divide in many areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is ironic that at a time when more and more citizens are taking to the streets and all kinds of protest movements are sprouting like mushrooms, the european decision-making process is being fearfully kept behind closed doors. in fact, the european parliament is being excluded. however, the lesson to be drawn from this debate is that the european parliament would be a useful instrument in dealing with the crisis if it were at the table. there is a consensus here to take measures that give people a perspective and to introduce eurobonds across party and national boundaries. a real solution must be democratic.
i would like to make one point, mr president. i probably drink too little coffee with my colleague audy, but in belgium a new government has come in on the basis of elections. it took us more than 500 days to get that government in place, but it was preceded by elections. i wanted to make that clear in this house.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because under the new legislation, anyone suspected of having committed a criminal offence will now have to be informed of his rights in a language he understands. this will ensure that eu member states provide any person arrested (or subject to a european arrest warrant) with a 'bill of rights' listing their fundamental rights throughout the criminal proceedings. this proposal is part of an overall legislative package to be presented in the coming years, which will aim to establish a minimum set of procedural rights to be granted in criminal proceedings in the union and to strengthen confidence in the single european area of justice - a whole programme! however, obstacles still remain, notably the need to take account of the different legal systems, and in particular the differences between civil law countries and so-called common law countries such as ireland and the united kingdom.
in writing. the eight members of the european court of auditors are to be renewed. the procedure provides that these applicants have been heard in advance by the committee on budgetary control (cocobu) so that it can give a favourable opinion on each of them. at the end of the talks and subsequent votes, mr pinxten's result was as follows: 23 votes in favour, one against. i therefore followed the position of my group and voted in favour of mr pinxten's candidacy.
in writing. this report proposes to renew the eight members of the european court of auditors. as required by the procedure, these eight candidates were heard in advance by the committee on budgetary control (cocobu) so that it could give a favourable opinion on each of the applicants. following the discussions and subsequent votes, mr otbo (denmark) was elected by 22 votes to 1, with 1 abstention.
in writing. if there is one report i particularly welcome the vote on in this plenary session, it is this one! victims of crime who are protected in one eu member state will now enjoy similar protection when travelling to another european country, thanks to the new european protection decision rules. although measures to protect victims of crime already existed in the member states, they did not apply when the victim travelled to another country. it will now be done! this protection will cover, for example, victims of sexual violence, harassment, abduction, stalking or attempted murder, as the directive will protect against any act or behaviour by another person which could endanger in any way his life or physical, psychological or sexual integrity, as well as his dignity or personal freedom.
in writing. a major step towards establishing a genuine european area of justice was taken this afternoon. the european parliament has adopted a series of measures introducing enhanced european protection for victims of crime, who will be protected in the same way throughout the european union. priority will be given to victims of gender-based violence, harassment, abduction, stalking or attempted murder. although rules for the protection of victims already exist in each eu country, they are insufficient in that they do not cover victims on the move and therefore often leave them defenceless. this is therefore a real development for the victims and their families, whose dignity and integrity are guaranteed within the european union through judicial and police cooperation between member states. the point here is not to advocate a europe of shields, but to make a european area of protection for particularly fragile and vulnerable people a reality. this necessarily and practically requires simplifying access to justice for all and giving priority to defending the rights of victims over those of the accused.
in writing. the vote on this report will allow migrants from third countries legally working in the european union to enjoy rights comparable to those of eu nationals in terms of working conditions, social security and access to public services, under a new 'single permit' decided today. in addition, administrative formalities will be reduced by obtaining a work and residence permit through a single procedure. in addition to simplifying the procedures for residence and work permits, the single permit will therefore make it possible to grant a common set of rights to workers from third countries and to workers from the union. equal treatment of workers is at the heart of this directive, and i welcome its adoption.
in writing. the regulation, which i voted for today, sets out the detailed rules for the application by the european union of the conservation, management, exploitation, control, marketing and enforcement measures for fishery and aquaculture products as decided by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the regulation applies to all commercial fishing and aquaculture activities carried out by community fishing vessels and nationals of member states in the area covered by the gfcm agreement.
in writing. i believe that the removal or at least the reduction of non-tariff and other regulatory barriers must be one of the regulatory priorities of the new eu trade policy in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore essential to call on the commission to systematically take account of non-tariff barriers in the context of a comprehensive strategy, including a strengthened dialogue on regulatory issues with all the union's trading partners. in addition, it is important to strengthen regulatory cooperation and the convergence of regulatory requirements on the basis of international standards and, where appropriate, to establish a regulatory dialogue to address existing or potential barriers to trade, with a view to limiting the number of disputes and the resulting high trade costs.
mr president, i would first like to start by congratulating the rapporteur mr lisek for his excellent report and secondly say that i very much welcome the remarks the high representative has made as a response to that report. now, while this debate centres mostly on doing more with less, by pooling and sharing and by cooperation, i would like to concentrate on the need to limit and eventually do away with the most lethal of all weaponry – i mean nuclear weaponry. it sometimes seems as if the whole issue of weapons control, and especially nuclear weapons control, let alone the issue of denuclearisation, has gone away. it is no longer on our radar. i believe that if we were to manage to revive efforts in that direction we would greatly strengthen our moral position when we argue, for instance, for denuclearisation of the middle east and – let us dream, it is going to be christmas shortly – a world without nuclear weapons.
mr president, madam high representative, it is perhaps true that we have waited a long time for your statement, but you have done some field work before that and you have had time to feel it. i can truly say that, as a champion of human rights, you have been. i would like to support all your action in this regard, even if this statement comes a little bit late. you said a lot of interesting things. i would perhaps like to make a small point again: i think that we do not stress enough the importance of all our agreements - be it aid we give to certain countries, be it our partnership agreements, be it the trade agreements we conclude with countries - in promoting the very idea of democracy and human rights. first of all, i would like to stress how positively i welcomed the communication with the 'more for more' for democracy in the mediterranean, which in a way made our help conditional on progress in democracy. i would also like to say that i believe that there is still a lot to be done on trade agreements. for example, if i take the free trade agreement we are discussing with colombia, i know that through the negotiations we have already been able to make progress in colombia in terms of trade union rights and human rights in general. but if we do this, we have not yet closed the monitoring mechanism, which allows us to see if the country continues to move towards democracy. there are still things to be done on this point. thirdly, i do not agree with everything that has been said, sometimes, in the broad criticisms that have been made to you, but i would also like to say that, despite everything, the question of the two weights, the two measures, which we have not always been able to manage well, remains for me something very worrying. i would therefore like to see us working very hard on this, trying to adopt a coherent doctrine in this respect.
madam president, madam high representative, thank you for mentioning the tragedy that has been unfolding in liège since the beginning of the afternoon, liège being my city, but also the city of two other members. we are in mourning and completely shocked by the crime of some reprisal of justice, which has caused - as you said - 4 deaths and more than 50 injuries, in the very heart of the city, in the middle of christmas time, when everyone was shopping. that's really quite dramatic and it's very delicate of you to bring it up. we are truly in mourning tonight.
thank you, mrs. de keyser. i'm not going to lie. i think that everyone will join in this painful thought, which can only inspire compassion and solidarity in us towards those who are directly affected. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu-russia summit.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr salafranca, for his excellent report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr salafranca, for his excellent report. you and i have done a lot of things - we have taken sanctions, we have made contact with the arab league, with this and that organization - but with the 5,000 dead we find today in syria and, above all, the prospects for the future that are so dark, i think that we really have to have in mind several scenarios. but all the scenarios i read are going from bad to worse, whether it's a slow repression by the regime that won't spontaneously give up its powers, or a violent clash, with an arming of, say, the free syrian army, that would lead to a more significant repression. whatever scenarios we're considering, they are relatively dark. we expect you to come up with a more constructive scenario to say: here we can do this, here are the risks, here is what we intend to do. there is this humanitarian aspect, you have pointed out, but it is not a scenario in itself, it is about giving a little oxygen to those who are fighting for their freedom. i would like to share in this regard the wonderful stories - but i don't have time here - that these syrian women have told us about how they are coping, how they are mediating, how they are treating victims in their homes, building hospitals in their homes, creating mutual aid funds for the families of victims who are in prison, who have been tortured or who have disappeared. so there is an internal opposition that is rising, and that too should be helped. so we must, on the one hand, develop a scenario and, on the other hand, increase humanitarian aid, but please intervene, at least do something.
president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ashton, the impunity with which the syrian authorities have slaughtered 5,000 or more people is, of course, vindictive and unacceptable. the way in which president el assad is shielding himself from responsibility for this is grotesque. the inability to get a clear resolution passed in the un security council is frustrating, especially since more violence would follow. the eu must continue its efforts to isolate the regime, to extend sanctions, to seek allies in the region. a regime that so brutally attacks its own people will sooner or later fall. but we do not know whether this can happen quickly or only after a bloody civil war with an opposition that feels obliged to arm itself. it is therefore essential to help the opposition to organise itself in a way that all parties and communities feel represented in a country that has never known a real opposition. i think, mrs ashton, that we as the european union can contribute to making this opposition stronger and more credible and well organised.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking the two rapporteurs for this excellent report and thanking commissioner füle for his comments. it seems that we are at what i would call an awkward juncture in the history and the development of the european union. we are personally, as far as the union is concerned, clearly in a very difficult situation, and in a situation which is such that some of our member states, or most of our member states, might be less inclined to show generosity and comprehension vis-à-vis neighbouring member states which are at various stages of development towards being democracies functioning according to our rules. i am personally slightly distressed when i learn that several member states are, for instance, very reluctant to open their market to agricultural products coming from some of our southern neighbours. at the same time, these same governments, same populations, are extremely demanding when it comes to the democratic criteria that those societies should be fulfilling. but that is very difficult. when you cannot develop your economy because you cannot export the products you are best at producing for the time being, it is very difficult to build development. i would like to conclude by saying that i agree very much with what our colleague mr swoboda said. we are the ones who insisted on elections. we are the ones who insisted on having elections soon. the people have not always voted the way we would have preferred, but it is now going to be our business to engage both with the new executives and with the civil societies within all of our neighbouring countries.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we heard this morning in another debate that europe is having a hard time speaking with one voice, even on fruit juices. germany was opposed to the text from the outset, preferring to protect its producers of concentrated fruit juices. spain and the region of valencia , the leading european producer of orange juice, welcomed the mixing of the fruit with the mandarin. this is what is happening in brazil - as has been said - a serious competitor and the world's leading producer, which supplies 80% of the orange juice consumed by europeans. europe is a very attractive market, because we drink 300 million litres of orange juice a year, half the world's consumption. i would like to ask whether the agreement reached, extracted and produced by our rapporteur, mr perello rodriguez, whom i too would like to thank, with the delegation of the european parliament, the polish presidency and the commission, was anything but obvious from the outset. that is why, on behalf of my group, i support the excellent compromise finally reached, which gives priority to the quality of the products but also to perfect consumer information. from now on - and we have fought this fight hard, many with carl schlyter - it will be forbidden to name a juice or nectar after a minor ingredient: strawberry juice, for example, for a drink where the main fruit would actually be the apple. it is a very common practice nowadays. so it's a real paradigm shift, with a period of adjustment for both of us. another key provision, this time in terms of health, is the ban on adding sugar to fruit juices. here, too, the latency period. finally, it was important that the directive should maintain national specificities by giving the products the unambiguous designation of 'fruit juice', 'concentrated fruit juice' or 'nectar'. i would like to end with a strong appeal to the commission and the commissioner, and in particular to his influential agricultural management: european fruit and vegetable producers are suffering. they are suffering from the crisis and international competition. i would ask you to listen to them and not to encourage the marketing of products from elsewhere - china, for example, or elsewhere.
mr president, i am one of mrs de lange's left-wing colleagues and, as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development of this parliament, and also of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i support this compromise, which was reached on 18 november by the rapporteur, mr perello rodriguez, the polish presidency and the commission. as regards consumer protection, i welcome the measures taken to protect consumers' interests by providing them with as much information as possible, guaranteeing unambiguous labelling of fruit juices and enabling them to distinguish between the different types of products sold on the market. it is essential that all the fruits used, even if they are not mentioned in the name of the product, should be mentioned in the list of ingredients in descending order of their volume, and mr schlyter has sufficiently demonstrated this. as regards added sugar, it must be clearly indicated in the list of ingredients by specifying the maximum amount of added sugar. in addition, and this was the subject of my amendment, in order to help consumers to differentiate juices from nectars in terms of their sugar content, the term 'without added sugar' will be allowed and reassessed five years after the date of entry into force of the directive. good information can help us to educate and protect our children from the harmful effects of too much sugar.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion on this subject in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i was keen to strike a balance between the needs of all the parties concerned: consumers, of course, and the environment, but also the usefulness of the industries concerned for the various detergents. the compromise reached by the rapporteur, mr newton dunn, strikes that balance. indeed, it was essential to push back the limit of phosphates in dishwashing detergents, because what is the point of removing all phosphates now, when this requires running a dishwasher again and again or even raising the water temperature? overconsumption of water, or overheating of water, is bad for the environment and for the consumer's wallet. so we have to wait for effective alternatives to phosphates. i regret, however, that the imco committee's views on the ban on greenwashing and the labelling for the sustainable use of detergents were not taken into account. it would have been useful to raise consumer awareness of the sustainable use of detergents in everyday life, as too many bad habits harmful to the environment persist.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, on 1 january 2017, phosphates will therefore be excluded from dishwasher detergents. these are measures which many professionals and ngos have been awaiting and which confirm, in a way, the legislative arsenal of some member states, which have already banned these powerful cleaning products. phosphates, which are very effective as water softeners, are also pollutants, which disturb the water balance and therefore contribute to the eutrophication of european waters. i would like to thank very warmly our rapporteur, mr bill newton dunn, who, with wisdom and intelligence, together with the polish presidency and the commission, convinced us that it was right to extend this regulation to dishwasher detergents. i have two reservations about this agreement, however, and i will abstain - in my personal capacity, not on behalf of my group - when we vote tomorrow. two reservations which, it seems to me, are symptomatic of the state of mind in europe today. the first is that i do not think that the agreement takes sufficient account of smes, particularly those which manufacture phosphates. not far from my home, for example, near liège, the firm prayon - 780 direct jobs - is rightly concerned about the negative impact of this legislation on its business. clearly, the philosophy of 'think small first' is sometimes difficult to put into practice. second reservation and this has been said before, and it is common sense : ninety percent of our water eutrophication comes from sources other than dishwasher detergents. so with or without them, this pollution will continue. we need a real european leap forward: legislation not on the margins, as is being done here, but on the essentials, for better implementation of the directive on waste water treatment - this is obvious - and against intensive agriculture and the dumping of food waste, the real culprits when it comes to the degradation of european waters.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, in business, in politics, as in life i believe that trust is the basis of everything. that trust, i believe you and your senior management have betrayed. you betrayed her on three counts. firstly, when we trusted you to say that parliament was renouncing its right to co-decide on indicators, we trusted you on the basis of a road map. one of the elements of this roadmap was that parliament would be closely consulted. what happened was that, as usual, dg ecfin got into bed with the council, and when they produced their baby together - and i don't want to know how - they showed this baby to parliament and asked us: 'are you satisfied?' that's not a way to consult people. i'm not a big fan of threesomes, but i think in this case, frankly, you chose your partner and i think you chose wrong. in the end, you say: 'a country with a surplus is not the same as a country with a deficit.' of course i did. but when we are told clearly that 'surplus countries will never be punished', it is as if we were saying that excessive surpluses are not dangerous. i am sorry, but to say that is to ignore the fact that excessive surpluses are just as dangerous as excessive deficits. yes, we must fight it with the same force. finally, on competitiveness, dg ecfin shows that, in the end, its obsession remains the same: the only factor that prevents the competitiveness of companies in europe is wages. we need to address pay as if it were the alpha and omega. europe will never be china. we'll never be the champions of low wages. we must win the battle of value.
in writing. the aim of the directive is to give priority to product quality and consumer information. thus, the main name of the product should correspond to the predominant fruit and all fruits used should be mentioned in the list of ingredients. the illustrations on the packaging must not mislead the consumer as to the actual composition of the juice. the most important change for juices is the removal of sugar from the list of permitted ingredients. the aim here is to guarantee the quality of fruit juices and to promote health. it is also important that the consumer can clearly distinguish between the different product categories, namely, pressed fruit juices, fruit juices produced from concentrates and nectars. all these measures will have to be accompanied by specific and large-scale information campaigns to dispel the confusion which currently exists. finally, i welcome the fact that the specific nature of each national market is maintained by a clear product name and that the directive applies both to products manufactured in the european union and to imported products.
in writing. europe is definitely struggling to speak with one voice, even on fruit juices! germany has opposed the text from the outset, preferring to protect the concentrated fruit juice industry. spain, the leading european producer of orange juice, would welcome the addition of mandarin. this is a very attractive market, since europeans drink 300 million litres of orange juice a year, half the world's consumption. i am not saying that the agreement reached on the fruit juice directive by the european parliament delegation, of which i was a member, with the polish presidency was anything but obvious. from now on, it will be forbidden to name a juice or nectar after a minor ingredient. strawberry juice, for example, for a drink where the main fruit is actually the apple! another key provision, and here in terms of health, is the ban on adding sugar to fruit juices. but this legislation, which promotes the quality of products and the provision of correct information to consumers, will be useless if tomorrow the commission does not promote the activities of european fruit and vegetable producers who are suffering from the crisis and global competition.
in writing. i voted today in favour of this report, which provides that detergents used in washing machines and washing machines must no longer contain phosphates. i remind you that phosphates are used in detergents to reduce the hardness of water and improve washing. however, when discharged into lakes and rivers, they promote the growth of algae that kill other aquatic species by depriving them of oxygen (detergent is the third largest source of phosphate discharge into surface waters, after agriculture and waste water, while laundry detergent is the largest source of phosphate in the detergent sector). from january 2013, phosphorus compounds used in washing machine products will not exceed 0,5 grams per wash. the rules will be extended to dishwashers from 2015. these new rules - and i welcome them - will undoubtedly improve water quality and protect aquatic life, which is under attack from phosphates discharged into waste water.
in writing. i am one of the four meps who abstained on the bill newton-dunn report on the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household textile detergents. although i share the environmental objective of banning phosphates (which are powerful cleaning agents but also polluting) in dishwashing detergents by 1 january 2017, i must also point out the pitfalls of this legislation. i would like to express two reservations which are symptomatic of the state of regulatory europe today. the first is that the agreement does not take sufficient account of smes producing phosphates. not far from my home, for example, near liège, prayon, 780 direct jobs, which is rightly concerned about the negative impact of this legislation on its activity. second, common sense: 90% of water eutrophication comes from sources other than dishwasher detergents! so with or without them, this pollution will continue. we need a european leap forward and legislation not on the margins but on the essentials: for better implementation of the directive on waste water treatment, and against intensive agriculture and the dumping of food waste, the real culprits when it comes to the eutrophication of our waters in europe.
in writing. i regret that the report on the partnership agreement with morocco was rejected, even though the committee on fisheries was in favour. some point to the financial weakness of the agreement. i can only attack. the ex-post evaluation report was particularly negative and concerned allegations that the committee on fisheries did not fail to question. what about the thousands of jobs created on both sides of the mediterranean? morocco is a partner in many ways, and rejecting this agreement is a very negative signal we are sending to it. if the agreement had been voted, we could have moved on and made progress in deepening our cordial relations with this southern mediterranean neighbour. so what we have just done is a serious step backwards.
in writing. the european parliament rejects the eu-morocco fisheries agreement. a technical agreement rejected on the basis of fallacious arguments, but above all a disastrous political signal. firstly, on fisheries, the protocol "would not be balanced in its cost/benefit ratio". so morocco must be compared with our swiss, norwegian or american partners? ranked 103rd in gdp per capita, morocco does not compete with the heavyweights of this world. and we must assume that this protocol is a form of aid for economic development. but the real story is elsewhere. what is deplorable here is the political signal we are sending, and this on the very day when the european parliament is awarding its sakharov prize to the leaders of the arab spring! a sign of distrust towards morocco, one of the most stable countries in the region, the only one to have embarked on a process of democratization, imperfect, perhaps insufficient, but without bloodshed, a country whose king has grasped the aspirations of its people and has quickly proposed substantial reforms. worse, this vote is a victory for his critics, the first of whom is his algerian neighbour. it's about a lot more than fishing here. this is about democracy.
in writing. - i voted against the extension of the eu-morocco fisheries agreement because western sahara is not part of morocco. fishing in saharan waters is a violation of international law. the use of a bilateral agreement to fish in the waters of western sahara is contrary to international law. moreover, the moroccan security services, and not the saharawi population, strictly control fishing in the occupied western sahara. in addition to the fact that this agreement is clearly in breach of international law, an evaluation report by the commission also shows that the agreement is a huge waste of european taxpayers' money and contributes to the destruction of fish stocks. it is the most inefficient and wasteful of all the bilateral fisheries agreements in force. every euro invested in the total of 36 million euros paid out by the union to morocco every year yields a negative return of 83 cents! and the agreement does not contribute in any way to the development of the local fisheries industry. finally, the commission did not consult the european parliament nor did it adequately involve it in the negotiation process. finally, the rejection of this agreement is in line with the analysis of the legal service of the european parliament.
in writing. the many controversies surrounding the fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco seem particularly misplaced to me. in 2010, the commission asked morocco to assess the situation and what efforts could be made in the future to improve the fisheries partnership. morocco, a long-standing partner of the european union, has complied and proved that the fisheries agreement has been beneficial in terms of job creation throughout morocco and for the sahrawi population. in environmental terms, almost 40% of the financial contribution from the agreement is allocated to the conservation of fish stocks and the development of the fisheries sector. to establish a protocol in such unflattering terms with regard to our moroccan partner seems to be a serious mistake for the european union and its bilateral relations.
in writing. following the economic and financial crisis, the trend is towards a reduction in defence budgets among member states. what i wanted to draw attention to - and i am far from being a warmonger - is that uncoordinated cuts in the defence budgets of the member states of the union could lead to a decline in europe's military capability. i therefore believe that more integration and pooling of resources could be a solution, as there are many areas in which member states could optimise their resources, such as strategic and tactical transport, logistical support, etc. more initiatives for mutualisation and sharing are therefore needed in the areas of transport helicopters, aerial refuelling, maritime surveillance, unmanned aerial systems, protection against chemical, biological and nuclear hazards, satellite communication, etc. i am also convinced that the european defence agency (eda) should play a greater role, particularly in the context of eu-nato cooperation.
in writing. a defence europe is essential not only for ensuring its own security and the survival of its social model but also for being credible on the international scene. the crisis is leading member state governments to cut defence spending. that is why it is urgent and necessary to organise our defence effort by making economies of scale. to remain competitive and effective, we need to enhance our synergies, pool our capabilities, develop effective strategies that will enable the eu to be able to manage crises, whether in libya, the horn of africa or elsewhere. the eu and nato must deepen their cooperation. the european defence agency needs to be given a larger budget. europe can only be a reliable ally of the united states and a reliable partner for china if, as pierre defraigne says, it acquires its autonomy in foreign policy.
in writing. russia is one of the eu's most important partners in many respects. the many political and economic agreements signed with neighbouring russia show that the european union regards it as a key partner on the international scene. twenty years ago, the totalitarian regimes of central and eastern europe were falling. a great victory for democracy! however, we are currently facing a worrying situation. the last parliamentary elections were widely criticised for the respect of procedures and the transparency of the results. respect for democracy also depends on the holding of elections worthy of the name, freedom of expression, the presence of a free political opposition and freedom of association and demonstration. it is now up to russia to prove to its long-standing european partner that it is willing to move towards a state based on the rule of law.
in writing. the revision of the european neighbourhood policy seems both necessary and welcome in the light of the events of the past few months. the arab spring has put issues of great importance on the agenda. it seems to me essential to think about the establishment of a fair and accessible european asylum system that goes hand in hand with a european visa system. migration is a natural phenomenon linked to the human condition. the european neighbourhood policy, which has been reshaped, must create a favourable environment for partnerships with third countries in the sometimes dramatic situations affecting them. the european union would have much to gain by encouraging initiatives aimed at informing migrants of their rights but also their duties.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. - the president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, everything is of course in order with the disaster in the gulf of mexico; the commission has been using this disaster and crisis to force the commission to come forward with a full list of measures to be taken in november last year. measures to be taken, ranging from better control of oil drilling installations to new legislation on environmental liability. and in that sense the proposal to revise the regulation on emsa, the maritime safety agency, comes at a particularly opportune moment. i think that we have taken a good position with the committee on the environment - the rapporteur has taken over a great many of the matters from this committee and i thank him for that - with parliament. i think we are asking for some very specific things. on the one hand, that emsa does indeed provide cost-effective measures to combat oil pollution at sea, including oil drilling installations, that cleanseanet is used in a better way, that satellite navigation is used in a better way. cooking costs money, and we all know that if we give new tasks to emsa, we will probably have to increase the budget slightly for that too. i think that all of this is reflected in mr fleckenstein's report, and i hope that the negotiations between parliament and the council will be concluded successfully and that we can work with the commissioner to ensure that the fight against oil at sea is indeed improved, not only with regard to the boats but also with regard to the oil rigs.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, for his excellent report and the way in which he has managed to gather a large majority of the votes in favour of his views. the european maritime safety agency is one of the agencies that is not well known to the general public but does an excellent job, especially in maritime safety and the reduction of maritime pollution, including oil pollution from seagoing vessels. the time has come to take new steps in the common management of european waters. the objective should be to create a european maritime transport area, in particular by significantly reducing the administrative formalities for intra-european transport, and the agency can of course play an important role in this, including through the blue belt pilot project. but also in the field of safety - as has been mentioned on several occasions - additional tasks should be entrusted to the agency, such as the monitoring and management of pollution from oil installations. the experience of the deepwater horizon in the gulf of mexico shows the enormous potential negative consequences of such pollution. in addition to resolving incidents, emsa should play a crucial role in prevention and coordination. i think we have to convince the member states, and apparently the commission, of that. i am not saying that everything should be handled by emsa, but i think we should look at how things can be coordinated better in terms of prevention. we don't have to invent hot water to do that. there is an agency. let us let the agency take over that task too. the importance of agreements with third countries was also mentioned. the agency must also play a role in this. finally, i would like to mention two things: on the one hand, to make the shipping industry more attractive. that's a real challenge to me. the social is something that needs to be worked out. and then there is the fight against piracy, to which my colleague has already referred. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. for all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we fully support mr fleckenstein's report and wish him every success in the negotiations with the council.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of national and regional road haulage tariffs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but we have found in 32 compromises in particular a good basis for setting priorities for the future. if this has been possible, it has been thanks to the willingness of the committee's colleagues to engage in dialogue. i would like to thank all those who have helped to make this report a truly coherent document. it's worth it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. so it is really a core competence in european politics. the white paper is setting the right emphasis. the emphasis is on the economic, environmental and safety aspects, where energy and co2 are of course still the main issues. we also wanted to send a clear signal to the council first. we want the eu directives to be implemented quickly and clearly, but we realise that this is not always the case in the council and that the borders between the countries we want to dismantle are very often rebuilt by implementing them in the council. we have agreed on efficient commodity in the discussion of many words and concepts. but it is important to me that this efficiency includes the aspects of economic efficiency as well as the aspects of environmental friendliness, safety and also the correct working conditions. the whole thing makes for an efficient transport policy. we have also limited ourselves to the next ten years and have made 31 clear proposals for this. firstly, safety, especially in road traffic. we still have over 40 000 deaths and over 400 000 serious injuries a year. we want clear measures for the next ten years to 2020 to reduce these figures by at least 50%. co2 is and will of course remain a focus for us too. we are going to set it at minus 20 per cent for the next ten years compared with 1990. we can do this, among other things, through an energy mix, not just e-mobility, we want an energy mix. we also want better modal distribution and we do not want to underestimate urban transport, while respecting subsidiarity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left behind. but let us also think about the atmosphere. why are we waiting so long to implement them when we know that with simple decisions, without investing money, we could save 20% in the end? we also share your view of the single european transport area. we want to abolish the border effects. we want to open the markets. we also want to make transport much more efficient. we also want - and i am thinking here particularly of road transport - not the cheapest transport of tomorrow at the expense of health and the environment, but we want the right prices under the right conditions, as far as the environment and the people who work there are concerned. the whole of this, of course, also leads us to advocate in europe, together with the commission, a coherent european transport network. we want to put emphasis there too. we must solve bottlenecks that we have known for years. and the border effects must also be addressed. the money is not there to simply give the member states money to do what they have to pay for anyway. we want european added value here and we want to ensure that the funding is adequate. these are all examples of how we see the future. in any case, mr commissioner, we would like to discuss these concrete measures with the commission in the future and also to implement them.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this report is important to this parliament because it sets the tone for our work in the years ahead. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur for the way he has dealt with this. he has succeeded in proposing good compromises on the most important issues. i shall confine myself to three key points. firstly, the importance of the social dimension of transport. we cannot, in the course of the next few years, further open and liberalize transport markets and at the same time ignore the social aspect. the social dimension must be equalised, and that is why my group believes it is essential that the commission should come forward by 2013 with a thorough analysis of social, market and working conditions in all modes of transport. on this basis, proposals should be made to achieve a high level of equal opportunities for all employees. this is important to ensure the attractiveness of the sector. secondly, we need to make the transport sector more efficient and sustainable, otherwise we will be driving ourselves completely blind and that will have a very high cost to our economy and the environment. there is no magic bullet to stop it. this will involve a mix of measures on price incentives and a better energy mix, proper investment to find sustainable alternatives and the introduction of new technologies. i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to speak. finally, i would like to stress the importance of technical interoperability, especially in the railway sector, but not only there. the rapporteur referred to aviation, where a more unified european airspace could bring enormous efficiency gains. but for the railroad, it's gonna take even more work. it is a shame that the thalys, for example, still needs seven safety and signalling systems to be able to drive through three countries, because the approval and certification procedures are different and have to be repeated over and over again. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of work to do, and i think this report will be a good guide for the years ahead.
mr president, commissioner, dear friends, the durban summit has just ended. we have avoided drowning and rescue thanks to the european union, its strength, its intelligence, its audacity and its leadership. this white paper, commissioner, is an extraordinary opportunity to try to do similar things in the field of transport, because i really believe that energy efficiency - the way to create innovation, the way to develop other modes of transport - has paid off in the field of energy. as we have seen, jobs have been created in this area, new economic sectors have been created. i would ask you, commissioner, in the context of this white paper, to be extremely bold and to be, in a certain way - if i may use the expression - the connie hedegaard of transport. with this white paper you have the opportunity to do more and do much better in transport, to develop innovation, to develop more innovative sectors but also to develop new practices, to change our habits. i think it's a conduit for quality of life, health, economy and development. so, commissioner, i would like to ask you... (the president cut the speaker off)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, it is understandable and very clear from all the remarks how large the transport area is and how many details must be improved. we have heard many contradictory statements – some say that this regulation for a single european transport area is needed while others say there is too much regulation. what should we do? do we really need a single european transport area and, if a project does not move as fast as expected, should we abandon that project? no, on the contrary we should hold fast to our ambitions and should push ahead with our ideas. two minutes is not enough time to allow me to elaborate but i must say that we have enjoyed the cooperation of the committee on transport and tourism in the european parliament. we have had numerous discussions and will continue to have discussions concerning concrete legislative proposals. you just had a discussion about railway recast – the recast of the first railway package – and it is clear to all how fragmented this area of transport is and how contradictory and different our views and interests are. many of you raised the issues that this white paper on this transport concept will lead to an increase in the level of legislation. i however do not see how. in industry, it is the producers of railway equipment that mostly complain about different certification procedures in member states. these procedures take enormous amounts of money and time. therefore the proposal is to harmonise this and create a european certification system for new railway equipment. is that more regulation or less regulation? is blue belt, for instance, to reduce formalities for ships? is that more regulation or less regulation? i can definitely assure you that the commission is trying to create a legislative framework to develop a transport system which will contain as little bureaucracy as possible. we must address the issue of congestion and we must address the issue of co2 emissions and also fuel dependency. if we do not have europe-wide answers to these questions, then we will probably be the cause of a lot of disappointment for business, for citizens and member states everywhere. let us work with these concrete proposals next week. one big one is already in process. this is a trans-european network proposal and the connecting europe facility proposal, which is a tremendously different proposal compared with the many previous proposals, and railway proposals are following. again there is the possibility to discuss how to overcome the national and political fragmentation of this particular transport mode.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank all the members for their contributions and to return to mr kósa and say that transport is very important for people. if we make it disability-friendly, then of course it's also senior-friendly and even family-friendly. so it was an important focus if we were to set it for the future. we don't make rules just to make rules. we are making directives at the moment when we are convinced that one european rule is much easier than 27 individual ones. that is why i sometimes find it very contradictory that certain colleagues go home and say: europe is making life so difficult for me. i only want to live by my rules, but i would like all of europe to accept the rules of this country. it can't be. that is why i believe that we in this parliament are very sensible about the rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. there are moments when you can't find consensus. we have just heard it: for some people the eco-liner is the product that can improve capacity tomorrow, and for others it is a monster truck because it is harmful to the environment. i think that in northern europe the eco-liner is very well tolerated, but in austria it should not be seen on mountain roads. so these are examples of where perhaps you should not make a policy. commissioner, we will begin the practical work tomorrow. we also want to measure what we have said here over the next few years, year by year, both in the environmental areas and in the modal distribution. so it's important for us to have the tools that show, per country, per region, how transport is organized there. we want to start with you, together with the commission. we believe that all the proposals which will be put forward tomorrow, for example on the transeuropean networks, can be based on these modal distributions. so this would be an instrument that we could build together very quickly and that also means that what we're saying here is not just theory, but tomorrow it will be measured in practice. thank you very much for your contributions.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, this fund is well worth this debate because we are at an important moment for this european social policy instrument, which is undergoing a double revision and whose mobilisation is currently being debated. as regards the mobilisation for the renault workers made redundant in france, the case is indicative of a lack of willingness to involve the social partners and a lack of flexibility and concern for all workers. we shall table an oral amendment to that effect. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the extension of the crisis criterion to the period from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2015. in this respect, i welcome the commission's proposal to make the tool sustainable and to make it more flexible. however, we must remain vigilant about the extension to agricultural workers. this should not be allowed to distort the fund and its basic objective.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i hope you will convey the message to your colleague, but we are not really satisfied with your answer here. if we want to achieve energy independence, we must make a firm choice to put everything on renewable energy and energy efficiency by 2050. there are no more important objectives than those two. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. - why? - why? to ensure that very large initiatives can be taken at local level, indeed with smaller amounts. the commissioner always says 'the low-hanging fruit of energy efficiency', because that is what we need those budgets for. those budgets must be clear and spent on this programme. that's what we want to hear from you today. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the budget is there and that it is committed to these objectives.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clearly the banks that today constitute the greatest threat to the functioning of the internal market and i would even say to the future of the european economy. indeed, some banking institutions have become too large and too important, giving them an unbearable market power. they are able to crush their smaller competitors and to absorb activities previously carried out by others - i am thinking of the activities of stock exchanges - in which they want to establish themselves as market places in place of the established stock exchanges. the biggest of these banks are not content to abuse their market power, they want to seize political power, and i think the most striking example of this was the reception of the head of deutsche bank at the summit of heads of state and government on 21 july, with the respect due to heads of state. how is that possible? because these large banks enjoy, on the one hand, the implicit guarantee of the taxpayer, as sophie in 't veld has said, but also, on the other hand, because the european central bank grants them a lender's guarantee as a last resort, in other words, guarantees them unlimited liquidity. it is striking that the same central bank, which finds it intolerable to give a lender's guarantee of last resort to the member states, finds absolutely no problem in giving the same guarantee to private institutions. i see this as the result of an ideological choice, which is to say that governments and states are inherently untrustworthy, while banks - big or small - are. it is clearly this ideological mold that we must break. too big to fail, systemic banks, simply shouldn't exist. too big to fail is too dangerous to exist! beyond the competition policy you are pursuing, mr almunia, which i believe has been successful, the texts we will adopt in 2012, the crd iv directive and the directive on banking crisis resolution, should, in my view, be an opportunity for us to reduce the market power of these banking institutions. that is where we will see whether we can find a majority in this house to bring the banking industry back to a size and practices more compatible with the general interest.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the cornerstone of eu competition policy has always been the elimination of obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. i am pleased to know that the european commission increasingly uses economic analyses when shaping competition policy, and i hope that it will continue to follow this course in the future; ultimately competition is about economics. a balanced approach to competition policy combines elements of both public and private enforcement. public enforcement is essential to fully achieve the goals of the single market and to ensure the enforcement of eu competition law by the commission and by the national competition authorities. private enforcement is compensatory in nature, in the sense that it promotes a personal interest in the private actor initiating it. however, private actions also help to pursue the public interest of deterrence. i mentioned at a meeting of the committee on economic and monetary affairs in october that, when it comes to collective redress, mr lehne behaves like a shadow commissioner for competition policy. the ecr group cannot support his approach of a horizontal instrument. we would like to see a system of access to national collective redress systems for those in other member states, based on a non-binding framework and specific sectoral measures. in the 2010 competition policy report i appreciate very much the emphasis on the need to discontinue as soon as possible the temporary state aid rules adopted in the context of the financial and economic crisis. furthermore, i strongly support the suggestion to the commission that it should take into account the impact, in terms of distortion of competition, of ecb liquidity support provided to banks during the rescue stage. finally, let me thank mr schwab, the rapporteur, for his good cooperation. i hope that we can continue to work together in the same constructive spirit.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it recalls that at present no direct budgetary financial aid is being granted to afghanistan. it also stressed that the commission should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the member states to ensure that the necessary financial resources are available to the member states. the report also calls on the commission to address the weaknesses identified and commits it to insist on the establishment of full financial and operational independence of the afghan control and audit body. the report also raises the question of increased accountability for eu funds channelled through un agencies in afghanistan.
in writing. the 2010 competition policy report of the european commission clearly states that recent consolidations in the banking sector have in fact allowed several financial institutions to increase their market shares. i voted in favour of this report because it very clearly and urgently asks the commission to continue to monitor developments in the european banking sector closely. as regards fines and settlement procedures for antitrust and anti-competitive conduct, i also believe that the policy on fines remains an important deterrent and enforcement tool.
in writing. the resolution on the draft scoreboard for monitoring macroeconomic imbalances which was adopted by the majority of the european parliament does not, in my view, take into account the most relevant indicators for sustained convergence of member states' economic performance and closer coordination of economic policies. indeed, indicators on poverty and income inequality would have been welcome, as would the unemployment indicator, which should be considered as an independent indicator, on an equal footing with the other indicators. since all the amendments concerning these indicators have been rejected by the conservative majority in the european parliament, i have decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. promoting the creation of a single transport area throughout the european union: a dream or a reality? the european parliament seems to be leaning towards the latter option with the adoption this afternoon of the grosch report which outlines the future european transport policy by 2050. i share the ambitious vision set out in this non-legislative resolution. it is appropriate to ask the commission to work on a 'charter of passenger rights' which would lay down the basic rules to be followed in order to strengthen in particular the safety of the most exposed persons: pedestrians and cyclists. i have some doubts, however, about the quantified targets put forward: reducing co2 and other pollutant emissions in all transport, why 20% for road transport and 30% for sea transport? what scientific basis is there for this difference, not to mention the fact that it is easy to put forward figures that only those who write them are bound to! more than ever, citizens are demanding concrete action. i am convinced, for example, that a majority of them would support a clear european commitment to rail freight. so that tomorrow's roads and highways will simply be less dangerous!
in writing. parliament was consulted today on the proposal to include trade provisions for textile products in the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between the european union and uzbekistan. this bilateral agreement expired on 31 december 2004. although in practice trade in textiles between the union and uzbekistan has continued smoothly since 1 january 2005, this issue has acquired more political sensitivity than the strictly technical nature of the proposal would suggest. indeed, many allegations of forced labour have emerged, in particular allegations of child labour in the cotton production sector in uzbekistan. i therefore voted in favour of suspending the approval procedure so that the international labour organisation can carry out further investigations into the real situation of forced child labour in that country. first of all, i therefore demanded that ilo observers be allowed to monitor the situation of child labour and that concrete reforms be introduced to ensure that the practice of using forced child labour finally disappears!
in writing. the european strategy for a new partnership with central asia was adopted in june 2007 with the aim of better recognising the growing importance of eu relations with central asia. following an initial progress report in 2008, the european commission and the council adopted a joint progress report in june 2010 to assess the implementation of the strategy and to provide initial indications on the future direction of the priority action areas, taking into account developments in and around the region. to this end, i believe it is important to stress the need to re-evaluate the strategy and to focus on the key challenges of respect for human rights, the rule of law, water scarcity, energy supply and regional security.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this report, which in its article 71 deals with a very topical issue: stress at work. i have particularly insisted on the adoption of this article. i also believe that in order to combat stress effectively in the workplace, specialised training courses on the issue of stress at work should be set up and developed, as well as workshops to develop teamwork skills and to improve the integration of a specific group of workers.
in writing. the rights to health, safety and dignity of the worker in the eu are fundamental principles that are often flouted in everyday life. this is what the european parliament underlines in the delli report voted on this afternoon. the european strategy for health and safety at work 2007-2012 has produced mixed results, to say the least: 168 000 european citizens die each year from work-related accidents or diseases. 7 million are victims of accidents. it is clear that the current situation is difficult and european workers are among the first to be affected by the economic crisis and its consequences: fear of losing their jobs, increased stress... the increased health risks posed by technological developments and the widespread presence of dangerous substances in the workplace must also be taken into account. there is still time to reverse the trend next year with the new strategy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. a return to well-being, quality, safe and dignified work and productivity must therefore become the main and urgent objectives of a more ambitious and responsive european policy.
author. - mr president, i would like to comment on a reading. i read to you: "a great favour will surely be granted by the almighty to the one who has carried out the sentence and pleased the muslims. the enemies of islam must understand that the honourable young people will not let anyone denigrate the holy values of islam and carry out the plots of world imperialism and zionism; to punish all who betray their faith for their shameful deeds. i pay tribute to the muslim world, and especially to the people of azerbaijan and to the memory of ayatollah uzma lankarani the man who issued the fatwa of death against the wicked". this was posted on sheikh fazel lankarani's website on the morning of november 28, after rafiq tagi's death. i would say that, no, this is not the islam we are defending in this parliament. no, these are not the friends of islam as we heard at the sakharov prize ceremony. and if we ask the iranian authorities and the authorities in baku to condemn this fatwa, i would also like to say that we here in parliament condemn with all our strength this exposure of islam which can be read here and elsewhere. we will always defend an islam that is moderate and respectful of freedoms. as for the azerbaijani authorities, no one is saying that they are involved, of course, in this murder. i expect them to condemn mr sadaqatoglu firmly and to protect him, who is also in danger today.
author. - mr president, one may wonder whether the police blunder in question here - involving zakaria bouguira and, above all, a dozen young moroccans who came to watch a football final - and these excesses would have been transformed into a humanitarian emergency on thursday afternoon in the european parliament if the problem had not concerned tunisia. is the brutality of the police and the security forces, the racist remarks and discrimination they have shown, more than an isolated act or does it concern all security forces in tunisia today? should that be the focus? that is a question we cannot answer here. i'd like to say two things. firstly, in this particular case, not only must the security forces be reformed, but the perpetrators must be punished. there are individuals behind this. i think the resolution does not emphasize enough the impunity of the people. secondly, we must also, in fact, in our contacts with the tunisians, support them in their transition...
