madam president, the december contamination in germany which we are discussing today and the blatant breach observed in our food safety chain not only seriously put at risk the health of thousands of consumers, but also revealed remaining weaknesses in our food traceability system. it is indeed more than worrying that the german authorities, and the commission itself, were not able to guarantee that none of the contaminated raw products, such as eggs, entered the food chain by being included as ingredients in processed food. traceability is quite often seen as a burden for the food industry, but it appears crucial when it comes to an emergency situation such as the one discussed today and should be considered as a prerequisite in protecting consumers’ health and safety. i would therefore like to put two questions to the commission. firstly, can it now be certain and confirm that none of the contaminated eggs or any single product affected entered the food chain via their utilisation in processed foods? secondly, does it intend to reinforce traceability and information measures in order to guarantee an optimal protection of consumers in future food crises with health implications?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of child abandonment in bulgaria, and it is therefore important that the commission should take the necessary measures to combat this problem. systems like the bulgarian one, in which a huge percentage of children are given for international adoption, are harmful. on the other hand, as long as childcare systems are such, international adoption may be the only option for a family and a normal life for many of the children in the homes. when we improve the overall system, we have to be careful not to take away that chance. measures are needed to facilitate the process of international adoption, but also to guarantee the interests of our children. to ensure that so-called 'adopters' are not just chasing european citizenship, something they are currently allowed to do. it's not for me to ask if they're doing it out of pure heart or for profit. it's the job of those who will conduct the adoption interview and look after the interests of our children. the principles of the un convention on the rights of the child and the philosophy behind them should be the basis of the law of intercountry adoption within the european union.
mr president, i would again like to draw your attention to the practice of illegal adoption. there is an organised crime network in europe – and especially in south-eastern europe – which deals in this. hundreds of children are being illegally adopted or put up for trade. after everything that we have succeeded in doing here in parliament, we should not have just one small recital on this issue in the human trafficking directive. i call on the commission to take special measures to prevent this horrible crime, and also to punish the perpetrators. we could not cope, country by country, at national level, with this very vicious practice. it constitutes organised crime, and i therefore insist that it should be dealt with at eu level.
ladies and gentlemen, recently the public in bulgaria has witnessed a series of publications about the alleged use of special intelligence tools to eavesdrop on senior management. the source of this information is unclear, with unclear origin and authenticity, remains anonymous and no one takes responsibility for its dissemination. the government's clear commitment to reform and the fight against organised crime, the non-interference of the former state security, and the fact that presidential and local elections are due to be held in bulgaria this year, have triggered this campaign, which has created tension and distrust in the government. the interest in this state of affairs is the circles of influence that have patronized and benefited from the merger of crime with the state. today, they seek revenge for their damaged interests. i want to assure you that bulgaria is a state governed by the rule of law, where such means are applied by the authorities only within the framework of the law, and that the government will continue the reforms on the path it has taken, not allowing illegitimate interests to interfere with the fight against crime.
in recent months, there has been growing public concern in bulgaria about the escalation of the use of special intelligence tools. but there is another way to look at this problem. wire taps have become something of a fetish for some politicians and heads of modern intelligence agencies. crime-fighting efficiency has not improved. even more unacceptable is the growing fear psychosis of these wiretaps. it is really unclear who is behind this babble: whether it is people from the security sector, whether it is their former colleagues or illegitimate structures that have destabilizing intentions. the contents of the tapes are mysteriously circulating in the media. the prime minister of bulgaria is also participating in such a conversation. the content is discreditable, but he claims the recording was manipulated. beyond this unpleasant factology is the feeling of the bulgarian citizens that the institutions are not working well, that human rights are being brutally violated. and so as a newly admitted member of the european union, bulgaria needs help to restructure its special services.
in the eastern part of serbia, in the area of the cities of bosilegrad and caribrod live several tens of thousands of bulgarians - a national minority that remained within serbia after the end of the first world war. i wouldn't be too far off the mark if i said that those people over there are some of the poorest people in europe. the serbian government not only does nothing about this issue - to make investments, to develop a little economic area, but in november last year, without any explanation and in violation of its international agreements, stopped a group of bulgarian citizens who were bringing aid for children from this area who come to study in bulgaria. dear representatives of the serbian government, free movement and open borders are core values of the european union. and until you learn it and apply it, you have no place in it.
madam minister, commissioner, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr kacin, for the good work he has done on the report. the future of serbia and the western balkans lies in the european union. i am convinced that the historical mistakes and injustices that have occurred in the balkans over the past century cannot be overcome in any other way than by european integration. our common goal is to transform existing borders from dividing lines into lines of unity. for citizens, regardless of their origin, it should not matter which side of the border line they live on: whether in niš, in kalotina, in tsarebrod or in sofia, whether in pristina or in leskovac. european integration is the only way to stability, security and prosperity for both serbian citizens and their neighbours. mr kacin's report contains aspects of what has been achieved in serbia and what remains to be done. serbia has and will have our support on its path to european integration. we in eastern europe can give our serbian friends useful advice, so that they do not repeat the mistakes we have made. one such advice is to open the archives of the communist repressive apparatus of yugoslavia. in bulgaria, we have a very bitter experience of the late opening of the archives. the former agencies are heavily involved in corruption and organized crime in the region. i welcome serbia's efforts to limit the influence of communist structures in the government. the future of a democratic country should not be controlled by its totalitarian past. we in eastern europe are well aware of the manipulations of the former communists, who in every way present their activities as a protection of national interests. don't let yourself be fooled. the only thing that drives them is their own well-being. ladies and gentlemen, whoever controls the past controls the future. opening the archives of the communist secret services will be a clear sign to europe that serbia wants to break with a regime that has cut it off from europe for decades. the citizens of the former yugoslavia have a right to know their latest history. i wish serbia success on its european integration path, on which it has our support and which we welcome into the european democratic family.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, looking back four years to the launching of the alde campaign ‘europe for patients’, i have good reasons to welcome the agreement reached with the council in december. i would firstly like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs grossetête, as well as the other shadows for their good cooperation and the great work accomplished, and also the father of this initiative, our colleague mr john bowis. the parliament remained united and stayed firm during the negotiations with the council. we stood for patients and for the first time, there will be a clear legislative framework in the eu for patients seeking treatment in another member state. we have to consider the agreement reached as a small step, but it is a real achievement for patients in europe, which will strengthen their rights while focusing on their needs, the information available to them, and the quality and safety of care. i am sure, however, that parliament would have supported a more ambitious result. though i recognise the need for member states to be able to set up prior authorisation to maintain the sustainability of their health systems, i regret that they – including the belgian presidency – have sometimes put organisational considerations above patients’ interests and needs. but we represent our citizens and are responsible for representing them here in this house. let me just mention one example: quality and safety. while member states were keen on establishing quality and safety risks as a criterion for the refusal of prior authorisation, they have been reluctant to accept – and have opposed – any system for the sharing of information and upgrading of requirements in this field at eu level. the alde group welcomes the future directive, but we will be strict about its implementation and make sure proper reporting and monitoring is in place to ensure that the directive is correctly implemented, and that the prior authorisation and reimbursement provisions do not become an unjustified obstacle to patients. finally, let me highlight one of my regrets: the lack of ambition of the provisions agreed for cooperation in the field of e-health, again due to strong opposition from the most advanced member states in this area. the initial proposal from the commission has been significantly watered down. i would therefore like to ask mr dalli the following question. would the commission consider the development of a stand-alone proposal on e-health, fostering cooperation and enabling interoperability of data and safety for patients, thus making it a reality in europe?
mr president, i too regret that we are joining one debate to another one: it is like having a joint debate on shipping and fishing because both of them happen in the marine environment. however, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, marisa matias, and it is indeed of the utmost importance that the european union should address, in a concrete manner, the challenge of alzheimer’s disease as one of its health priorities. the current medical and social burden of this disease represents a serious threat to the sustainability of our healthcare and social systems. several other chronic diseases will significantly increase in the coming years and it is crucial that we should also address them in a comprehensive way with an appropriate preparedness plan. i sincerely hope that the commission will take the lead in building on the european initiative on alzheimer’s disease, and will support member states in addressing the public health challenges of our ageing population. i particularly welcome the focus on a multidisciplinary approach. finally, i would like to stress the need to focus on research, and on targeted investment in this field, with one priority in mind: not to serve business interests but to deliver concrete public health outcomes for patients and citizens. with regard to the oral questions, i think we are witnessing here a method of lobbying aimed at increasing pressure on the german authorities and contesting eu safety requirements and regulations. it does not matter whether the companies concerned are big or small: the only question of importance for us is the safety of patients.
the first thing i learned from the statements of the importers was that they were basically suggesting that the proposed amendments would discriminate against homosexuals. they're not sure. they only assume. so this situation reminds me a little bit of the movie "special report" where, using psychics, the local police convicted people before they had even committed a crime. lithuania is in exactly this position right now - being convicted of something it hasn't actually committed yet. there is another very big fundamental problem here, which, colleagues, will torment us for many, many years to come, and that is the conflict between the different rights of different groups. for example, you know that the right of assembly that we're talking about in this room right now is not unlimited and absolute. it must be a peaceful gathering, held under certain circumstances that do not disturb public order. this is out of the context of this particular case, but remember that going forward these conflicts of rights will be a huge problem for the european union and very often, at some point, we will even find ourselves in a situation where we have to judge whose rights take precedence over the rights of others if we continue to expand the horizons of so-called civil rights and freedoms so unchecked.
madam president, mr president of the council, prime minister, 2011 will be the first year in which two countries from central and eastern europe will lead the european union, namely hungary and poland. two countries which have made a special contribution to the development of democracy, to the unification of europe, and it seems to me that this capital that these two countries have should not be squandered in the way that it was demonstrated today. mr. prime minister, i am calling on you to remove this shadow that has fallen on your presidency so that we can report at the end of this presidency that you have fulfilled your priorities. i want to be able to concentrate on them, not on the decisions and actions of the hungarian parliament, which are at odds with the basic principles of democracy. you will have the full support of the socialists and democrats to conclude the negotiations with croatia within your presidency. i didn't hear anything in your briefing about a review of the neighborhood policy. i hope that you will come up with the necessary initiatives and i hope that you will succeed in this period to put belarus back on the path of democratic development. i take the liberty of disagreeing with mr cohn-bendit. i don't think mr. orbán can be compared to mr. chavez, at least there are other prime ministers in europe who can compete with him.
in writing. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, mr prime minister of hungary, i would like to congratulate mr orbán on the start of the hungarian presidency of the eu. we all want this presidency to be a success. understandably, this desire is particularly strong for the representatives of the new member states. one of the stated priorities of the hungarian presidency is the enlargement of the schengen area. mr. prime minister, this issue is extremely important for the bulgarian socialists and for all bulgarian citizens. since the first day of eu membership on 1 january 2007, the bulgarian authorities have been working to make bulgaria a reliable external border of the eu. at the beginning of 2011, this preparation was almost complete. i expect the hungarian presidency to secure the european council's decision on bulgaria and romania's membership of the schengen area by mid-2011. after addressing the final technical requirements in the coming weeks, the european council must decide to include bulgaria and romania in the schengen area without imposing additional political conditions.
mr president, mrs ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the sahel is a crossroads between sub-saharan africa and europe. the worrying level of insecurity there affects us all. i would like to draw your attention to the resolution adopted on 4 december by the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which deals with this very subject, and to the recommendations made therein. it is clear that a common european strategy must be defined, but the european union will achieve nothing if it acts alone. this is why there should be a great deal of consultation between the actors in the region. the summit of the heads of state of the countries of the region under the auspices of the un, the european union and the african union would make it possible to deal with the problem clearly and to try to find a solution by defining a broad strategy. the establishment of a two-stage regional action plan, demonstrating clear political will, is essential. the first step is urgency. it is a question of pooling the resources and information available to the states of the region and coordinating their actions. the second stage is to raise awareness among the local population and to prevent the phenomenon. the aim is to prevent the ranks of terrorism from growing day by day because of the frustration and inactivity of the people of the region. the european union cannot afford to sit idly by and do nothing. i therefore ask mrs ashton to take all the necessary steps to speed up the debate and to propose concrete solutions to this major problem.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mrs ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the socialist and democratic group deeply regrets that this presidential election has become yet another missed opportunity for the country to embark on the path of democracy with firm steps and enough commitment. we can say that in fact the european union's policy of gradual engagement with belarus under certain conditions has still produced some results, so we have to be careful about calls to change our policy altogether. i say this because thanks to our commitment, at the end of the day, the presidential campaign made some progress and perhaps that was the reason why on election night, on the square in minsk, many more people came out than the organizers of the protests expected, i.e. an atmosphere of more freedom was created, which the citizens of belarus may have read correctly. from now on, however, we must be first: sufficiently clear and firm in our demands to the belarusian authorities for the immediate release of those detained and for the immediate cessation of the persecution of all those who in one form or another participated in the protests themselves or are organizers of these protests. there can be no compromise here and we must be clear enough in our demands. another element is what we can do in the medium and long term. first, we must avoid throwing the country into a new isolation, because as the representatives of the opposition and civil society themselves have emphasized, the isolation of belarus means the isolation of the citizens of belarus. what we need to do is, within the framework of the policy that we already have towards belarus, try to make the necessary adjustments so that we redirect it to be in favor of the citizens, in support of the media, in support of civil society, in support of the opposition, so that we can create an environment in which fair and democratic elections become possible. in this direction, i think we should also work with belarus' neighbours who are not members of the european union, namely russia and ukraine, and try to use the opportunities of the eastern partnership and euronest as a parliament to engage the other five countries of the partnership in joint work on the democratisation of belarus. (the president agreed to answer a question by raising a 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
maybe i wasn't clear or sometimes subtleties get lost in translation. i wanted to say that the situation in belarus is changing in the sense that more and more people understand the need for democracy and understand the need to fight for democracy. in this sense, it is a positive signal for me that there were many more people in the square in minsk than everyone expected. that's what i meant, and i certainly didn't mean that the regime in belarus makes that possible.
mr president, i always try to speak in my own language, but sometimes i feel that i should not on such sensitive issues. i was trying to convey that i believe that the situation is improving in the sense that more and more people in belarus understand that belarus needs democracy and more and more people understand that they have to fight for democracy in belarus. that is why i said that i consider it a positive signal that so many people, many more than the organiser expected, were at minsk square. i hope this explains what i meant.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very glad that the black sea region is high on the agenda of the european parliament. this region is important for the european union and we need to focus on it to reflect its extreme sensitivity for us. i want to thank and congratulate the rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs, mr traian ungureanu, on an excellent and very substantive report. the report and its recommendations are interesting and innovative on the many issues. since the latest enlargement, the black sea is also an eu sea. we have responsibilities towards it, just as we do to all other basin regions that border us. we have to tackle this new responsibility resolutely. as part of the european neighbourhood policy, we already have an initiative targeting this region: the black sea synergy. however, we must admit that its implementation has proved much more difficult than we had thought. not everything we want to do is being welcomed with enthusiasm by everybody in the region. precisely for these reasons parliament has chosen an approach based on regional ownership and fostering dialogue. i believe that this is now the right approach for us to pursue, but these commitments can only be credible if and when they bring concrete improvements to the peoples in the region. thus the report on developing a new european union strategy for the black sea represents our commitment to the region and to our member states who belong to this area by giving them our full support in facing the challenges linked to their specific geographic situation. we understand that a strategy for the black sea region should not be interpreted as a replacement for existing efforts, particularly the black sea synergy. it should rather be a comprehensive framework where guidance can be found for all european union activities in the region. the black sea strategy can provide an ideal occasion to review our interests in the region, including strategic, political and economic interests, and to discuss how best they can be achieved. parliament has identified the appropriate fields in which the strategy should be developed, like governance, security and energy, transport, environment, trade, local economic development and social and human development. developing this strategy can also provide the opportunity to add a maritime dimension to ongoing activities in the region. the commission is currently developing a comprehensive package that will address maritime policy initiatives, management of natural resources and the fight against illegal fishing activities. we can draw on our know-how from other strategies, such as the eu strategy for the baltic sea region and the eu danube strategy. indeed the danube strategy will require obvious interactions with the black sea. however, we are aware that each european basin region is different. accordingly, we need to ensure that all future eu strategies should be adapted to their own sectoral characteristics, economic and social development, environment and energy, infrastructure and natural resources. the report on developing an eu strategy for the black sea region offers an overview of the future challenges for the region, but it will also be relevant for establishing solid channels with the state partners in the region to ensure its smooth and effective implementation. we need to use this opportunity to consult extensively with all stakeholders, starting with our partners in the regions and with the involvement of parliament. again this report is welcome and we are keen to draw on its recommendations. the external action service and the relevant commission services will be committing their efforts to prepare a black sea strategy for which we will seek your and the council’s support.
rapporteur for an opinion the inta. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate mr ungureanu, and as rapporteur for the committee on international trade, i am pleased that some of our proposals have been incorporated into the main text of the report. i am pleased that the black sea, as mentioned, has become, figuratively speaking, a 'european' sea since the accession of bulgaria and romania in 2007, and needs a comprehensive european strategy, which requires sufficient administrative and financial resources, as well as good coordination and accountability. a key task is to incorporate a project approach into the new strategy. special attention should be paid to areas of common interest, such as the environment, energy, transport, infrastructure, which are crucial for the sustainable development of the region. enhanced cooperation is also needed at parliamentary level, with organisations such as the black sea economic cooperation parliamentary assembly and the wto, and with the black sea trade and development bank. last but not least, i think we should also take into account other regional initiatives, but also not let the strategy be drowned in them.
madam president, i would like to join most of the views expressed in this chamber and congratulate the rapporteur on what he has done with this report. the pontus euxinus, as the ancient name of the black sea, has had its decisive geostrategic and economic importance in europe since antiquity. the black sea has that meaning today, in this day and age. so it's very important that this strategy really gets put into action, because we have a debate again -- even, as i recall, recently there was a debate. i therefore want to end on a point made by the socialist group and support in particular the point which calls for the creation of a separate budget line for the implementation of the strategy. i therefore call on the commission: - what? - what? only with reasonable and sufficient funding will we be able to turn the words we say in this chamber into action that matters to the citizens of europe.
madam president, with the accession of bulgaria and romania the black sea region became an eu neighbouring region. it is a strategic bridge connecting europe with the caspian sea and central asia. its geopolitical and economic importance for the eu is constantly increasing in terms of security, stability and energy. the union should therefore step up its presence, develop active policies and find lasting solutions to the existing problems in the region. it is not only the littoral countries that show a big interest in multilateral regional cooperation – which is crucial for solving urgent issues of regional and european importance such as ‘frozen’ conflicts, trafficking and other security-related issues. what is currently needed is a focus on several issues of concern that are of pragmatic interest to all the littoral states. one such issue is maritime security. in recent years there has been an increase in accidents involving loss of human life and environmental damage in the black sea. the eu should reduce the risk of civil accidents by providing assistance to search-and-rescue operations within the framework of the european integrated maritime policy. we expect to vote soon on the report by our colleague iliana malinova iotova which deals for the first time with eu fisheries policy in the black sea. this could also offer a good basis for multilateral cooperation in the region. eu support is also desirable for ongoing projects like the black sea ring highway, pan-european transport corridors 8 and 9, and the transport connections between the black sea ports. i would like to thank the rapporteur for supporting my amendments and for his excellent oral contribution.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the socialist and democratic group has endorsed the proposed resolution. we believe that this will be a very strong signal both to the authorities in belarus, to civil society, the media and all those who are fighting for the democratic development of the country. we hope that the measures proposed in this resolution will be carefully considered and discussed by the commission and the council and implemented as quickly as possible to achieve their effect. in fact, the inauguration ceremony of the re-elected president lukashenko scheduled for tomorrow will not stop the questions that he has about the legality of the elections and the way the result of those elections was registered. so far, the european union has used different policies, different mechanisms of influence on belarus and the belarusian leadership, and all of them have produced modest results. perhaps it is time to think about new possibilities or to consider whether we have a new situation in the region that allows us to use other mechanisms. there is something that is implied in the resolution that we consider extremely important and something that has not been tried so far: we coordinate our policy and our relations with belarus with our immediate neighbours who are not members of the european union, namely russia, which is our strategic partner, and ukraine, which is part of the eastern partnership. i believe that with joint and coordinated efforts we could achieve, if nothing else, at least a more politically adequate environment to allow for the holding of fair and democratic parliamentary elections elections to be held within the next year. parliament must also make the most of the opportunities it has. today it was decided that we would send a delegation to visit belarus and i think that it would be a test for the belarusian leadership to allow this delegation to visit the country and to provide this delegation with all the necessary assistance and contacts so that we can gain a clear picture, with our own eyes and capabilities, of the situation there.
on behalf of the s&d group. the socialist and democratic group believes that the black sea strategy report is really important and comes at the right time, because it assesses what has been achieved so far in the black sea region and makes a number of recommendations on what the european union could do further in this direction. we believe that political coordination between partners who have very different levels of cooperation with the european union is difficult, but not impossible. it makes sense also at political level to try to combine our efforts, bearing in mind that three of the countries are members of the european union, one is a strategic partner, the others are part of the eastern partnership, and turkey is a candidate country for membership. the failure of the european union to engage more strongly in the region, at least up to now, deprives us of developing and using a great potential and in this sense we must now say that the black sea synergy, which from the very beginning was assessed as a not very ambitious initiative of the european union, must be developed into a real black sea strategy. there are already models of interaction that can be used successfully, of course, adapted to the region, such as the baltic sea strategy, which is a successful macro-level strategy for developing regional cooperation. we think there are a number of steps that need to be taken right now, not all of which have found a place in the report. first, in practical terms, the ongoing review of the neighbourhood policy should consider greater coherence between the black sea synergies and the eastern partnership, since almost all eastern partnership countries are also part of the black sea synergies, except belarus. the second point is that we need to strengthen the political dialogue at ministerial level as well as at parliamentary level and try to find more coherence between the danube strategy and future initiatives for the black sea region. all this should lead to a strategy to be incorporated with separate budgetary funding in the next budgetary framework.
in writing. − in the context of the 2009 competition policy report, i would like to stress once again the importance of follow-up actions to assess the effectiveness of state aid. it is vital for the european single market that the commission carries out a thorough analysis of the impact of the review of the state aid mechanism undertaken in response to the crisis and with a view to healthy competition and ensuring a level playing field in the eu, financial reform and job creation. it should be borne in mind that the process of reviewing state aid mechanisms was initiated with the sole aim of helping member states' economies recover from the crisis. by monitoring the results of state aid, the commission must ensure that the measures taken do not go beyond the initial objective, because the essence of eu competition policy is equal participation in the single market.
the protests in tunisia and egypt, fueled by anger and intolerance at widespread youth unemployment, police brutality, corruption and authoritarianism, disregard for human rights, freedom of speech and democratic principles, are also challenging other arab countries who are already demanding change. events in tunisia, once considered an oasis of stability and economic security, are very similar to the beginning of the collapse of the soviet bloc in eastern europe. they are the spark that heralds the collapse of the arab pseudo-model of stability and that will drive democratic change in the region. the demands are clear and the people of tunisia and egypt would not agree to half measures. many of the conditions necessary for a transition to democracy, a vibrant and organized civil society, a free press, respected opposition figures, and established political parties are already making inroads, but a complete overhaul of our foreign policy to date is needed, ms. ashton. the european union must make strategic choices and balance its political and economic interests with the democratic values that unite us. europe needs to show that it stands firmly behind democracy, not just supporting stability in the region, because when the change happens, people will remember who stood with them and who supported the already impossible status quo.
vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i will read the statement and then, i am delighted to say, my colleague michel barnier will continue the debate and close it for reasons that i think the honourable members have understood. we are witnessing what is a historic moment for sudan and actually for the whole of africa. the people of southern sudan have waited a long time for the chance to exercise their right of self-determination. the timely, peaceful and credible conduct of the referendum has been a remarkable success and one of which everyone should be proud. the preliminary results of the referendum in the 10 southern states were announced on 30 january and showed an overwhelming majority (99.5%) in favour of secession. we still await the final results, which will be out in the next couple of weeks. we congratulate the southern sudanese people for the determination, dignity and patience they showed in turning out to vote in such large numbers. we also commend the southern parties to the comprehensive peace agreement for their leadership, and the sudanese referendum authorities for the remarkable job they did in organising the referendum despite the enormous challenges they faced. this referendum’s success is, above all, a sudanese achievement but it also reflects the support of the african union and the au high-level implementation panel led by president mbeki, who helped the parties to move forward, as well as the sustained diplomatic attention it received from the international community, including the un, the us and, of course, the european union. sudan has been high on our political agenda in brussels during the past months. we discussed it in the foreign affairs council both in november and in december. we agreed again on conclusions in the foreign affairs council this week and we will continue to monitor the situation. more than anything, however, i want to thank véronique de keyser, the chief election observer for the south sudan referendum, and her team in the eu observation mission, for the important role they played in helping to create confidence in this process among the people of sudan. the deployment of a large and experienced observation mission was an important and tangible european contribution, and i thank you most sincerely because i know you personally played such a significant role and it has been well recognised. we also provided technical expertise and financial support to the sudanese referendum authorities. as we wait for the announcement of the final results, i want to reiterate that the eu will respect the outcome of the referendum as an expression of the wishes of the people of southern sudan. we are encouraged by president al-bashir’s remarks in juba on 4 january, reaffirmed at the mini-summit on sudan in addis ababa on 31 january, that the government of sudan will accept the results of the referendum, will be the first to recognise the new state and will extend full cooperation to it. we urge all stakeholders to continue to exercise restraint and to ensure that calm prevails and that the safety and security of all peoples in sudan are protected. while the referendum on self-determination for southern sudan was a major success, we cannot afford to be complacent. huge challenges lie ahead. the referendum on abyei, which was supposed to have been held at the same time as the southern sudan referendum, has still not taken place. we are concerned at the violence that occurred in abyei on the eve of the referendum and we urge the parties to prevent any further violence and to find a substantive solution to lay the foundation for long-term co-existence between local communities on the ground. there are other outstanding issues related to the comprehensive peace agreement still to be resolved, including north-south border demarcation and the holding of popular consultations in blue nile and southern kordofan. we hope the parties will now refocus their energies on resolving these matters as well as key post-referendum issues including citizenship, security arrangements, oil revenues and other economic issues. we are encouraged that both parties have agreed on a number of principles, particularly to work for two viable states with ‘soft’ borders, and to build constructive relations. however, there is still a lot of work to be done and we will continue to support president mbeki’s mediation efforts. we also face an important humanitarian challenge. every day some 2 000 people return to south sudan from the north and they need help to reintegrate into their local communities. i remain deeply concerned about increased violence in darfur, leading to the recent displacement of tens of thousands of people, and the severe impact this is having on humanitarian operations. three european citizens are still being held hostage. we also continue to have concerns about the detention of human rights defenders, journalists, opposition politicians and peaceful student protesters. one of the basic principles of the comprehensive peace agreement was the establishment of democratic governance based on respect for diversity and freedoms, and we want to see respect for fundamental freedoms and genuinely inclusive democratic governance in both north and south. looking to the future, i assure you this will remain high on our agenda. we will continue to engage with both khartoum and juba. we are ready to step up our engagement with khartoum and prepared to strengthen our dialogue. we remain committed to providing assistance to the people in the north, particularly in war-affected areas such as the east, the transitional area and darfur. southern sudan will not be stable if northern sudan is not stable, and vice versa. eu foreign ministers have said they are ready to look closely at eu support for international debt relief for sudan, consistent with political progress. in southern sudan, the eu has a significant contribution to make to stabilisation, development and institutional capacity-building. we are already providing support for basic services and agricultural development – in addition to the significant bilateral programmes of member states – and we are looking at our longer-term strategy for development cooperation with southern sudan. but we also recognise that darfur deserves the same high-level attention that has recently been focused on implementation of the comprehensive peace agreement. so we appeal to all parties to cease hostilities, conclude a ceasefire agreement and move towards a comprehensive and just political settlement, and we will step up our efforts to encourage all parties to engage seriously in the doha peace process. finally, a word on justice: lasting peace in darfur cannot be achieved without justice and reconciliation. there has to be an end to impunity. the council has repeatedly drawn attention to the obligation of the government of sudan to cooperate fully with the international criminal court. i believe the eu has an important role to play in supporting a peaceful, stable and democratic future for the sudanese people, whether in one country or two. we owe it to the sudanese people in both north and south to stand by them and offer them support and encouragement at this critical time.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the sudanese authorities in khartoum are giving positive signs, including with the exemplary conduct of the referendum, that they will accept the results of the referendum in south sudan. after decades of civil war, i do not think it is an exaggeration to call this a historic moment for africa. but historical moments are not eternal, they are ephemeral. and for a page of history to truly be turned, change agents cannot rely on their past. they need to lay down clear, sound and sustainable foundations for a better future. this is the pivotal moment for south sudan because between now and july 9, when it is officially declared independent, a lot can happen. both countries face many challenges. the most urgent issue to be resolved is that of borders. abbey's status is still uncertain. a solution must be found to prevent the emergence of possible conflicts. on the other hand, there is the question of the "returnees", as they are called. how will these people be received? will the newly formed state be able to integrate so many people in such a short time? to ensure that these people will regain citizenship, employment and decent living conditions, stable institutions must first be established, including in the judiciary, the police, the army and the administration in general. but this referendum also poses a major challenge for north sudan. the authorities will have to adapt to a new political context. this weekend, there were already protests. will the government promote political, ethnic, cultural and religious diversity? because the mistakes of the past must not be repeated. in both countries, the key to success lies in the guarantee of a pluralistic political space, ethnic and religious diversity, and the rule of law. without this we can never speak of democracy. i would like to add one last thing. the economic, social and political interdependence should encourage the authorities of the two countries to engage in constant dialogue and cooperation. the european union, for its part, will be a major partner in the future developments of both countries by offering them genuine development projects.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the unresolved problems of the tobacco industry in bulgaria have led to an escalation of tensions in certain regions of the country and protests involving over 10,000 people. in the adopted declaration, they expressed their disagreement with the water policy that is the cause of their difficult financial situation, linked to the suspension of the national tobacco production subsidies for the 2010 harvest. in europe, 17 of the 27 member states produce tobacco, and all of them are supported by their governments. bulgaria is the only member state to delay the approved scheme for national tobacco surcharges adopted by a regulatory act and notified to the european commission. it provides for a €76 million aid package for bulgarian tobacco producers, which is currently being delayed, and the delay in this aid is condemning hundreds of families to starvation and emigration and endangering civil peace in the country.
i will of course support what is proposed, because parliament must protect its rights when it comes to the powers granted by the treaties. i want to say to you that we need to extend our control, not just in the preliminary control with regard to the delegated acts that we are talking about now. we also need to have follow-up control, because billions and billions of euros are poured into some programs that usually go into the pockets of various dictators and sponsor their good life, while at the same time in our own countries there are also millions and millions of people who also live very miserably. and so we sponsor with european taxpayers' money the luxurious lives of dictators who oppress their people, while our own citizens live poorly. so we must take the beam out of our own eye and then look at the speck in the other's and control those means finally real and firm.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would also like first to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr florenz, and his team, the shadows and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for their hard work. their commitment and interest in this matter is reflected in the amendments that were adopted in committee and tabled in recent weeks. i am pleased to see that many amendments fully support the objectives of the commission’s proposals on the directive on waste electronic and electrical equipment, namely: to fully reap the environmental benefits of the weee directive by setting ambitious collection and recovery targets that are realistic for all the member states; to strengthen implementation and enforcement by establishing detailed rules to fight illegal exports of eu waste; and to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens significantly for european producers through reinforced cooperation among national authorities. by strengthening the weee directive we can make an important contribution towards becoming a resource-efficient recycling society. we are talking about the fastest growing waste stream in europe, and one with huge potential for reducing our dependence on imported or virgin raw materials. based on this very positive background of broad agreement between parliament and the commission, let me make some introductory comments on the three specific issues. the commission is pleased that parliament fully accepts the ambition level and starting date for the new collection target. it is ambitious in order to benefit our environment and increase the resource efficiency of our economy, and it is achievable for each member state, which is also important. the committee proposes to define the target in a new way by mentioning the ultimate goal – collecting a proportion of the weee generated – explicitly in the wording. the commission can agree to this approach if an appropriate methodology to calculate the weee generated is established. the commission is willing to contribute to coming up with this methodology, as proposed by the committee. concerning the scope of the directive, it is proposed that the link between derogations to the weee directive be abolished. this is acceptable to the commission, because the principle objective of the commission proposal in this area was to clarify, but not to change, the scope of the weee directive. finally, concerning photovoltaic models, which are one specific issue within the matter of the scope of the directive, the commission proposes to exclude them specifically from the scope of the directive which, as you know, is in line with the committee’s proposal and the current directive. however, we are aware of the increasing number of concerns relating to the potential environmental impact of solar panels, particularly in their waste phase. a voluntary agreement recently submitted by the solar panel industry clearly fails to meet the criteria for such agreements. an evaluation of the agreement by the commission’s services will be published very soon. we clearly need to assess properly the environmental risks and opportunities of the disposal of solar panels before considering their inclusion in the scope of the weee directive. to conclude, as you know, the new weee directive was proposed under the recast procedure, which combines the requalification of existing texts with designated new or amended elements. we still believe that, when the recast procedure is used, we should in principle respect the agreed rules of the procedure. only those elements have been truly impact-assessed. however, we sympathise with the intentions, and agree with the direction, of certain amendments which were tabled by the committee. i am now curious to listen to your debate on the proposal and the proposed amendments, and will make further comments, on behalf of the commission, in my closing remarks.
on behalf of the alde group. europe pays over €130 billion each year to import strategic metals to support its industry. this cost can be significantly reduced by the improved text of the european waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, which we adopted by a large majority in the environment committee in the summer. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, karl-heinz florenz, and the other rapporteurs on their extremely competent and responsible work. the compromise text that will be put to your vote today represents a major step forward for the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment in europe. moreover, through the new, more ambitious and specific target and improved mechanism for waste collection with clearly emphasised responsibility, europe can also solve its important, i would say strategic problem, because much of the electronic and electrical waste in europe contains precious metals such as gold, platinum, palladium, copper, nickel and others, which can be extracted for reuse many times over. as an example, in 2006 the countries of the european union dumped nearly 307 million tonnes of recyclable waste and equipment, according to eurostat. the report is a major step forward not only in terms of the increased collection target, but also in terms of better environmental protection. i therefore call on all colleagues to support the report as a whole.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. − member states have had three years to transpose the services directive into national law. a year after that, we can assess its implementation and outline directions for further progress. the european commission's communication clearly shows the diversity of legal and administrative requirements in the member states, the different approaches and the different progress made in the process of its implementation. the development of the single market in services is important for the creation of new jobs. i therefore believe that the commission and the member states should be more active in removing the legal and administrative barriers that still exist. additional support is needed for smes. the application of the principle of multilingualism in the single points of contact and the wider use of e-government capabilities would be a considerable relief for service providers.
i will join in the general sentiment i feel here in this chamber towards small and mediumsized enterprises, and i will say on my own behalf as well that i fully agree with what was said before, that small and mediumsized enterprises were the ones who suffered the most from the economic crisis. i also agree with mr czarnecki that it is mostly small family businesses from which individual families derive the bulk of their income. when a big corporation is hit, because corporations were also hit in the economic crisis, but hitting a big corporation only reduces its profits. a strike on a small business results in the loss of income that is vital to the family that feeds off that income. and so i would like to say that very carefully changes should be made, because both left and right measures can have a bad effect on small and medium-sized enterprises when targeted in a certain way. i mean, just giving financial and bank guarantees will not be enough, and we need more development of the law, more, if you like, regulation in the banking sector to provide financing to small businesses, and finally to put the matter in such a way that we do not look at some equality that does not exist, the small are not equal to the big, but to make sure that they can actually be competitive when the big corporation comes.
on behalf of the alde group. the danube region strategy is due to be approved by the council of ministers in april, which will signal to the general public that there are no obstacles to its start. in practice, however, member states and non-members in the region face a number of challenges in terms of actual implementation and coordination not only of priorities but also of financing mechanisms, of delegation, reporting and monitoring of implementation. this is particularly the case for large cross-border infrastructure projects. i believe that the commission should give careful consideration to the issue of monitoring projects implemented under the danube strategy, not only in terms of financial discipline but also in terms of compliance with deadlines, contractual arrangements and the quality of the results achieved. clear responsibilities should be established as to who, how and when to monitor the implementation of commitments, how to report problems, and how to analyse them for resolution. another important issue is the communication and promotion of the results achieved during the implementation of the strategy. transparency and access to information on the progress of projects is of paramount importance both for the objective conduct of administrative processes within between project coordinators and implementers and for the citizens of the european union. before the strategy was drawn up, we held extensive discussions and consultations on issues relating to the priorities and actual projects under the strategy. this has raised the interest of european citizens. how will they be informed about the progress of the strategy, or the lack of it, what will be the mechanism for public scrutiny? this is a question that also needs to be answered at european level. i therefore believe that the debate and information campaigns must be continued in order to maintain public commitment to this ambitious european project, which we would all like to see realised.
mr president, the danube strategy must turn into a continuing process and into a tool for coordination among partners facing similar challenges. it has to improve the implementation of common targets and to make an impact clearly felt by our citizens along this important european artery, which, as a colleague pointed out, has also been heavily hit by the present crisis. it is of crucial importance that the danube strategy be based on a bottom-up approach. this partnership should be followed up in the future development of cohesion policy programming documents. the active participation of local and regional stakeholders is a guarantee that they recognise as their priorities the actions and projects included in the strategy. by this i mean real ownership of the process. the willingness of the danube regions to allocate funds from their own programmes to common projects is a precondition for the successful accomplishment of their goals, but they should also strengthen the coordination of the existing transborder programmes. that is the only way for the strategy to become a good example of interregional cooperation.
from the outset, the danube strategy must deliver concrete results that are visible and convincing to the citizens of the danube countries. there are many ideas in the danube countries, but the priorities are important to start the strategy with. projects for the construction of common tourist routes, for the development of transport, the environment and contacts between universities can be visible and give shape to the danube strategy. i would like to stress the need to actively involve civil society structures from the very beginning of the strategy's implementation. it will be successful when citizens along the danube feel that there are concrete forms in which they can engage in cooperation. in this context, i would like to call on the commission and on my colleagues in the european parliament from the danube countries to help set up information offices and to give special support to ngos, municipalities and universities to implement specific projects.
i rise to express my deep disappointment at the laxness with which the commission has dealt with the procedure for requesting a written reply. more than once, i received an answer to a question asked much later than the three weeks set for it. and not only is the procedure backward, but the answers are always vague, concise and of the "yes, you're right, but i'm not responsible for that" type. colleagues, i represent a country where 20 years ago, in another political system, the institutions were shifting responsibility and comfortably silent. this is not the right way of communicating, this is not the right attitude, and i wonder, since the commission treats us meps so arrogantly, what is its attitude towards the ordinary european citizen? and i'm afraid to answer that.
the results of a representative survey show that only 4% of bulgarian students participate in student exchange programmes such as erasmus. the main reason for this low participation is related to financial constraints. the 20% student mobility target by 2020 can only be achieved if funding mechanisms are revised. two types of measures can be developed. the first concerns student mobility loans. a study by the london school of economics proposes the creation of a european student exchange lending facility. this tool will lead to greater interest from students. the second type of measure concerns an increase in grants for student exchanges. grants reduce social inequalities and are the most effective investment in raising the level of education and the competitiveness of the european economy. more resources should be allocated in both the european and national budgets to enable students to afford to participate in european mobility programmes.
madam president, let me first congratulate marisa and my colleagues for reaching an agreement with the council on such a complex dossier. the text now on the table reinforces the security of our legal chain of supply for medicinal products, but let me emphasize that only 1% of falsified medicines reach our patients via this legal chain. the other 99% comes from illegal channels and the black market. in this regard, i very much welcome the additional provisions focusing on the internet put forward by the european parliament. but in order to address this major risk for patients’ safety, we must also reinforce eu actions in the field of justice, police and customs cooperation. the commission should go further in this field and we insist on this to combat falsified medicines properly. regarding the specific provisions of the agreement to be voted on tomorrow, and most particularly the new safety features to be implemented, i would like to ask the commission to clearly monitor the impact of this directive. in its initial report, the committee on the environment stated that the measures put in place should respond to three guiding principles: proportionality, cost-effectiveness and independence.
i want to say at the beginning that albanian society, the albanian people are a little bit special and please understand me. they have had a more distinct history, a more distinct cultural tradition and to this day retain some features both of their national character and of the way in which they perceive and develop political processes. so if we want to instrumentalise the problem we're commenting on, we probably need to be creative, flexible and imaginative. for example, i think it is necessary to contact not only the leaders of the two political blocs that are in confrontation, but also the informal leaders of albanian society. there were accurate things said about sharia, about the islamic conference, but we must remember that albanians are tolerant of the three main religions in their country, eastern orthodoxy, islam and catholicism. these three communities have strong leaders, as do ngos and youth. let us turn to them as well in an effort to bring the two poles together.
mr. swoboda, i have a question for you. you cited data from 2008 and 2010. can you tell me first where you got this data from and do you think this data is accurate? you quoted that only one or two percent is used in court. the data that's circulating in bulgaria is very different, with very different numbers as to how many people were actually targeted by these special intelligence tools and what percentage were used as physical evidence in court. they are 30 per cent in 2009 and 40 per cent in 2010, so quite different from the figures you quoted earlier.
a very short and quick question. mr. swoboda, are you aware that the investigation you say is in the ministry of the interior was moved there from the hands of the judiciary during the rule of the bulgarian socialist party, members of your group?
in bulgaria, we have a saying about what we're going to witness in today's debate: "the thief calls, catch the thief". because under the triple coalition, the services were infiltrated by the mafia, and what you're seeing now is the toxic result. under their leadership, colleagues, i was beaten by the police during an opposition protest. then these wolves in sheep's clothing, who now appear before you as fighters against the police, changed the law, which is why the case against my assailants has been pending for three years. during your rule, socialists and tsars, the police beat peaceful protesters, and now you shout about violation of civil rights. in your time, the journalist ognyan stefanov was beaten to death, and you complain about censorship. in your time, murders and kidnappings were commonplace. the mafia was all-powerful, and the citizen was powerless. the vessel is bought and sold. in your time, the deception and the selling of national interests was a model of government. now you are committing another treason, trying to stop bulgaria's entry into schengen with this debate, thinking that you can blame the vices of your criminal rule on others. that's not gonna happen because the voters aren't blind. they swept you from power, threw you into the political garbage, and no amount of meanness you can produce will change that fact.
every debate in the european parliament reflects the interests of european citizens. but today it can serve as a good example of how the european scene can be exploited for national political ends. any replacement of the european agenda with a national one could not be interpreted as a national responsibility, but in contradiction with the values for which the citizens of bulgaria voted for representatives in the european parliament. would they now recognize themselves in that kind of debate? i don't think so, you know. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. there is, however, a line beyond which it is a matter of not recognizing democratic institutions in order to protect the interests of dubious groups of people whose objectives are clear: discrediting bulgaria in its european path and discrediting the gerb government in its will to put an end to vicious practices accumulated over years. i'm going to take a look at some of the things that have been presented by my colleagues. first, the allegation that the number of wiretaps has doubled. ladies and gentlemen, the official figures are quite different. for anyone who cares about the truth, they are public and available. but i do have a question. since when is this information transparent? the answer is one. thanks to the gerb government, for which transparency and free access to information by citizens in the country are among the main ones. secondly, the claim that with the closure of the sdr control bureau in bulgaria there is no longer any legal control over their use is completely unfounded. colleagues, i would like to remind you that this bureau has never functioned and, even more so, that in its original idea this body was created within the executive branch. do i need to remind you that bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and it is within the framework of respect for democratic institutions and the constitution that a specialised subcommittee was established to carry out parliamentary control and monitoring of the procedures for authorising, implementing and using the srss. i would also remind you that the subcommittee is composed of representatives of all political parties and is chaired on a parity basis. notice, the ruling party is not allowed to preside. the bulgarian legislature has provided absolute guarantees for the lawful conduct of this activity, backed by reliable control. it's hard to change the status quo, and it's even harder to build something positive. but it is most difficult when some of our country's representatives in europe's most democratic institution become part of internal polemics whose aims are so far removed from those we affirm here every day.
this discussion today is not just about mass wiretapping in bulgaria. it's about the disturbing trends in the suspension of civil rights in europe. internal political problems are the competence of the authorized bodies in bulgaria, which are obliged to self-assess and solve them. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules are fully complied with. and that is why we asked you what you would do to ensure that european law is not abused. i would also like to say to you, mr strasser, that we have addressed the commission. the scandal in bulgaria calls into question the charter, the stockholm programme, directive 9546 and a number of documents on the protection of personal data, because in bulgaria, recorded conversations of doctors are publicly read without legal grounds, without the possibility of defending themselves in court. the dramatic increase in srss is inversely proportional to their judicial performance. there are still doubts about their collection and use for political purposes, especially dangerous in an election year. we urge the commission to take the initiative to set up independent bodies to monitor the sdrs in the member states. commissioner, they are very important in the fight against corruption and crime and we therefore urge you to monitor their legitimate use in the context of the monitoring and cooperation mechanism.
the escalation in the use of special intelligence tools in bulgaria is indeed a fact and therefore the public is excited and worried. it was the bulgarian parliamentary control body that made the critical findings. i call on the commission to look into them. there are other important questions. will the commission send a signal to those who do not know the fragile balance between security and freedom? will the commission condemn those who use the state's toolbox for partisan and even personal purposes? and how strongly will the commission urge a national parliament, not just bulgaria's, to address some of the legislative shortcomings and to reinstate independent control bodies where they have been shelved? it became clear that information obtained in secret was shared outside the specialised teams and with political figures in the hierarchy of the security services; that operatives filtered information, which they were not legally entitled to do; that many times the ssrs were applied on fabricated grounds, formally and probably without grounds. the bulgarian special services, unfortunately, in their fight against crime, have developed a special reflex to control almost everything that moves and breathes. it's not by chance that highly reputable magistrates, not politicians, are saying that either the system is flawed or it's a case of obscurantism. the faulty systems need to be fixed and that is what we are fighting for now, and when it comes to obscurantism i think we all need to stand up and say: the core of european political philosophy is human rights, freedoms, the inviolability of human life. the stockholm programme was not sent to the museum. it asks us to make europe a zone of freedom, security and justice and it must not allow individuals, parties or governments to degrade any member state into a dark corner of unfreedom, injustice and insecurity.
what we have heard from the commission confirms the fact that the legislation in bulgaria regarding the use of special intelligence means is in line with the european one. we cannot make a distinction between the fact that each member country is obliged to guarantee the fundamental rights of its citizens and to respect the legal procedures, as bulgaria does. so what sparked this debate in the european parliament today? the answer is very simple. in bulgaria, the election campaign is being carried by the bulgarian opposition to the european parliament, without any consideration of the possible discrediting of bulgaria, but with the sole purpose of extracting political dividends, which, i assure you, colleagues, is very doubtful. it is difficult to convince the european institutions of the good intentions of the representatives of the former triple coalition in bulgaria, during which we had enough examples of corruption, unwillingness to fight crime and lack of trust on the part of the european union. the colleagues who initiated this debate were clearly impatient to wait for the commission's answers to their questions and wanted such a debate to take place before the interim progress report on bulgaria's progress on the verification and cooperation mechanism. i'm gonna let myself in for a little joke here. obviously, the colleagues are guided by a highly patriotic and patriotic idea to harm the bulgarian government as much as possible. it is a shame that today in this empty, half-empty or completely empty hall, we are facing bulgarians against bulgarians. instead of working together in the public interest, we're engaged in rumors, manipulation and compromised warfare. the current government in bulgaria is under attack from the old status quo, the remnants of the communist regime in the power structures and those who have criminally enriched themselves during the transition. the purpose of this united front is not only to destabilize bulgaria and stop gerb's efforts for a more just society, but also to discredit our country in the eyes of our european partners. i say again, it is a pity and a shame what is happening here tonight. the jealousy of these circles, both political and economic, is evident in the government's successes in fighting crime and corruption without compromise, in an open and honest way of conducting policy. in recent days, our bulgarian opposition colleagues have been portraying the situation in bulgaria from black to blacker. they talk about fear, police brutality, repression, hunger, misery, the darkness we just heard, and so on. in order to achieve short-term political goals, an attempt is made to embarrass bulgaria. the truth is the opposite. no contract killings, no kidnappings, a severe blow has been dealt to organized crime and the main channels of corruption have been stopped, which benefited not only economic but also political circles of the old status quo. the country is macroeconomically stable and offers some of the most favourable investment conditions in europe. the government is stable, has a stable majority in the bulgarian parliament, governs openly and is a respected and worthy european partner. finally, i would just like to apologize once again to my colleagues from the other member states who are here and we are wasting our time together in this unfortunately bulgarian election debate.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you of the european commission's well-known assessment that the current government of bulgaria is showing a real will to crack down on organized crime. hardly anyone can deny that for the first time in our country there is real progress in this area. that's why the bulgarian voter voted in 2009. and the results are due to the active actions of law enforcement agencies, who have harnessed all legal methods to solve crimes. it's natural to have more operations, more investigators, more efficiency. but let's not be naive. organized crime has enough resources, acquired through years of impunity and inaction, to provoke an unprecedented response. they've set up a smear machine to discredit the administration in the very area where it's strongest. it began with the release of specially selected and manipulated surveillance tapes, passed around by unknown individuals with flash drives. media and politicians are dying to comment on what horrors are happening in bulgaria, how citizens are endangered, how fundamental conventions and declarations may not be respected. and only the initiators of this hysteria, who have criminally obtained and planted this supposedly revealing information, are rubbing their hands enough. i'm sure they didn't even expect the bait to be so powerful that the flash drive had to be stolen. some of the politicians here have even managed to continue the hysteria in the european parliament by presenting it as a bugging scandal in bulgaria. there is no such scandal in bulgaria there is an organized attack to discredit the country's government, its most prominent personalities. and failed politicians from parties outside the government most blatantly criminally exploited their thrown-away opportunity to speak out in the hope of dividends in their upcoming election season. let's ask our colleagues if they know who they're helping, who they're doing a favor for by their actions today.
i would like to address the honourable commissioner pielbalgs because there has been a lot of propaganda from the ruling party in bulgaria. a parliamentary committee headed by the ruling nationalist ataka coalition partner, came out with a report in the bulgarian parliament saying that the government filters information that is wiretapped before providing it to the court. this report says that the government doesn't protect confidential personal information and it gets out in the media. this report says, i repeat, prepared by the bulgarian parliament, that the fundamental rights of the people living in bulgaria, who are also european citizens, are being violated. this is a violation of several european directives. it's a violation of the bill of rights. i think that the commission will henceforth have to compare the bulgarian legislation and its implementation with what is required of all european citizens. this is not about propaganda, this is not about a party campaign. these are clear facts and we expect the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to take note of them and to take a position on them.
being the last one in the debate, i want to say a few words, summarize. today's debate is not a debate about the srs in bulgaria, nor is it a debate for or against a minister. today's debate is a debate on the principles and values of europe, so there is nothing more natural than it being held in the european parliament. because this is about freedom, about human rights, about democratic laws, and this is not and cannot be just an internal debate. the debate on human rights is the philosophy of a united europe, the spirit that drove the new democracies after the fall of the berlin wall. if they lose their faith that europe is based on principles, many of their citizens will conclude that the road to it, a road full of many hardships, has been in vain. today's debate is a debate about the truth. truth can't be left or right either. there can be no half-truths. the truth is always the same and we insist that the responsible institutions in bulgaria tell it and that an hour sooner. because, intentionally or not, by delaying their response, they are feeding the malignant rumor mill and thus serving the very people they claim to be fighting. today's debate is also a debate about the responsibility - not of past or future governments, but of the present. the great thing about democratic governments is that they are always accountable to their citizens, whether they are their supporters or their opponents. equating the opposition with organized crime is a political take on a different kind of government that has nothing to do with democracy.
after all that we have heard so far, i can only say that once again, unfortunately, we have become witnesses to a pathetic set-up by the bulgarian opposition to bring a domestic political debate to the european parliament. the initiators of this debate, the former socialist and liberal leaders who ruled our country for eight years, obviously want and use every opportunity of publicity to tarnish the image of bulgaria in front of our european partners. we're not going to decide who's right or wrong in this debate today, but what will be remembered are the sharp words we exchanged and the heavy accusations that were made during the debate. i turn to you, colleagues from the opposition, if you cannot be a constructive corrective to the current government in bulgaria, if you cannot focus on expert, constructive, consensual proposals on how to raise the standard of bulgarian citizens, at least do not hinder those who can do this.
mr president, i was not intending to take the floor now under the catch-the-eye procedure, but was denied the right to raise the blue card. i wanted to respond to mr strasser. първо искам да кажа, г-н strasser, че не бих могъл да се съглася, че няма данни за това колко са използваните специални разузнавателни средства. по информация от върховния касационен съд през 2010 г. са дадени 15 946 разрешения, а в съда са влезли само 1918, това е 12%. разбирате, че останалите специални разузнавателни средства очевидно са използвани за други цели. 16 000 специални разузнавателни средства означава, че косвено или пряко между пет и десет процента от българските граждани са били подслушвани пред 2010 г. аз ви питам, г-н strasser, вие така ли правехте в австрия? съгласни ли сте така да действа министерството на вътрешните работи и прокуратурата в австрия? и смятате ли, че това не е принципен дебат затова какво е свободата и демокрацията в една страна членка на европейския съюз? мисля, че тези въпроси трябва да бъдат обсъждани точно тук, защото очевидно нашите сили не достигат в българия.
mr president, i would like to ask the european commission whether it is aware that 27 cases against bulgaria have been won at the european court of human rights in strasbourg over police arbitrariness. today we're discussing the srs and the scandal in bulgaria, but also a citizen initiative is vetted by the national security agency and people are forced to withdraw their signatures. participants in peaceful economic protests were called to the police station for questioning. arrest by show is done in bulgaria using super strength. a declaration of the ruling political force says that circles of the opposition from the left and the right invite organized crime and the enemies of gerb manifest themselves as enemies of the state, and political opposition and criminal opposition today are the same. this is mussolini style and i'm very worried. also yesterday, at an official meeting of the leadership of my political party with the leadership of gerb, pressure was put on us to withdraw our oral question, which i consider undemocratic and unacceptable. what measures does the commission intend to take to restore human rights in my country? this debate today is not bulgarians against bulgarians, but bulgarians in the interest of the state and its citizens.
mr president, i just wanted to add my voice to those insisting that you pretended not to see the blue cards tonight. since everyone was trying to imply that there are not enough colleagues here, i would like to say that there are indeed enough respectable colleagues listening to the debate. i just want to express my disappointment at what mr strasser said. really, this was not an example of a good democratic speech from someone from a country which we really respect as a democratic one.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, it is natural to have debates when it comes to fundamental and unavoidable european values such as security and human rights, and when the fragile boundary between them is being breached. as paradoxical as it sounds, the different positions tonight had something in common. and that's the worry. the european commission requested information from the bulgarian authorities to ascertain whether the special intelligence means were being used lawfully. liberal and socialist meps have requested a debate on the grounds of concern about the legality of the matter. we have expressed our opinion to assure the citizens who sent us here that on their behalf we will be vigilant for any possible infringement of their rights. the concern about bad practices and the confidence in overcoming them is also reflected in the speeches of the colleagues from the european people's party. i hope that this unifying role will provoke recent processes of normalisation and democratic functioning.
i thank mr swoboda for his good work and i really hope that this report will be the last before croatia signs the agreement on accession to the european union. i believe that croatia's accession to the european union will give a boost to reforms in the region and will be a success for all of europe. croatia has recently given such a sign, providing free legal translations of community law to its neighbours from the former yugoslavia, bosnia and herzegovina, serbia, montenegro and macedonia. the country has thus shown that it is willing and able to contribute to the european future of the whole region. the accession of croatia to the european union will give a clear signal that the european union stands by its commitments to the western balkans and that enlargement is an open process. i want to emphasize that while every country on our continent has its own problems, we should be careful not to point the finger at eastern european countries when we talk about corruption and crime. this is not a trademark for this region alone, but a challenge for all of us, and only by working together can we limit the negative trends in this area. transparency and democracy are our unchanging values and that is why we must encourage and promote reforms in the western balkans. i wish croatia success and hope that we will soon welcome it here as the 28th member of the european union.
i voted for this report because i believe that the development of adequate and sustainable european pension systems is very important, especially when we consider the demographic processes that are taking place in europe and that we have a continent that will continue to have an increasingly ageing population and more and more people to be supported by less and less. but i would also like to say that the amendments which i also supported, which provide for the commission to set up expert groups to develop projects to support the national systems, should not extend its powers too much. pension policy is a national policy and the commission should not go beyond its powers, although its advice will be useful in any event.
in writing. egyptian authorities have planned to revise the country's constitution. a group of lawyers has been put on the case and will have 10 days to table amendments. that's very good news. the most controversial articles, notably on the non-limitation of the number of presidential terms, on the restrictive conditions for candidacy in presidential elections, on the method of election supervision and on the limitation of the possibilities of appeal after parliamentary elections, will have to be revised. the democratic transition is therefore under way. but the revision of the constitution is not the only task to be tackled. economic well-being and social cohesion are the preconditions for the emancipation of a people and the smooth functioning of a country. the european union, for its part, cannot remain passive in the face of these changes. after welcoming the democratic transition, mrs ashton will have to look at the partnership agreements from the top down, putting the rule of law, justice and the defence of human rights back at the centre of concerns. these values cannot be ignored under the pretext of seeking stability in our relations.
rapporteur. − mr president, the current mandate of the european investment bank for its operations outside of the european union expires at the end of october. the european parliament and the council have to agree on the conditions for its extension beyond that date. parliament has discussed the issue very thoroughly over several months. during that period we discussed many ideas and tried to listen to the opinions of many stakeholders. we held dozens of meetings, both outside and within parliament, between the political groups working on the text. i should like to take this opportunity to thank very much all my colleagues from the political groups, and the administration, for their dedication, their work based on the highest professional standards, and their endeavouring to achieve a broad consensus on a mandate for the european investment bank that will make a difference in fulfilling the eu’s objectives. i also thank very much the european investment bank and the commission for their constant support and advice, which was very valuable for our work. now we have a draft decision to be voted by parliament which provides for more coordination between the european investment bank and the other eu bodies, for more transparency and stakeholder participation, and for a better monitoring and reporting system: a decision that will improve the visibility of the impact of the bank’s activities. with this decision, we shall start elaborating the common eu position with the council. the draft decision preserves the very successful profile of the european investment bank as a top-rated financial institution and investment bank. at the same time, being an eu institution, the european investment bank is expected to contribute better to the goals of the union through its specific means and tools. the changes proposed are based on accumulated experience and on the understanding that the profile of the european investment bank as a top-rated investment bank should not be jeopardised. parliament proposes much better coordination between the external action service, the commission and the bank in implementing the eu’s external policy objectives. the european investment bank will have to devise development and environment impact parameters and report on their completion. it will indirectly contribute to the eradication of poverty and to climate change mitigation in the developing countries, and stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises and the development of local communities. the monitoring and reporting systems guarantee more transparency, better access to information and increased possibilities for the stakeholders to give their opinion at an early stage of the consideration of the projects. an additional sum of eur 2 billion will be released for use in environment-related projects. this should contribute to the efforts of the european union partner countries to finance efforts to implement climate-related policies. let us hope that this new instrument will create incentives for the potential recipient countries to commit more to the climate-related goals of the european union. parliament suggests, also, an increase in the ceilings of the eu guarantees to be used by the bank. at first glance this is a very difficult decision, because it is extremely sensitive for the member states. any increase in the ceilings means effectively a 9% contribution to the guarantee fund, but on the other hand this is an extremely good instrument creating leverage and attracting more funding institutions to the eib projects. the proposed increase in ceilings amounts to about eur 1.7 billion, and would allow the bank to at least maintain the intensity of its activities in the pre-accession countries, and especially in the mediterranean region. in recent years, at the request of the council, this financing has been intensified. therefore, the eu has to make an additional effort to support the economies of the countries of the western balkans and north africa, especially in these times. this would not involve substantial costs, whereas the benefits of achieving the eu’s objectives in these regions would be very high. we ask the european investment bank to develop a stronger capacity for assessing and reporting on development, environment, and the human rights aspects of their projects. it will have to ask loan promoters to consult local stakeholders before deciding on projects. we reconfirm the good practices of the bank in avoiding working with partners incorporated in non-cooperative jurisdictions and using tax havens. we propose to establish a working group that will suggest better cooperation and blending of the funds from different donors by the middle of 2012. a working party will analyse current practices as regards the disbursement of development assistance by the eu and the member states, in order to increase its efficiency and the visibility of europe as the major development assistance provider in the world. (debate)
at first glance, it looks like he's been working very hard to produce this report so that european taxpayers' money can be spread around a lot of different countries, including one of them, great, turkey. if mr. kalfin, when he was minister, and his fellow ministers had been as diligent in defending the rights of the bulgarian citizens, i think that their party might still have continued to rule bulgaria. as to the substance of the report, i wish to join in full with what lord dartmouth said. turns out an english lord has more social responsibility than a socialist calvin. ladies and gentlemen, we are elected by the european citizens and we must use their money, collected from taxes, to solve their problems first and then, when we have solved their problems, to give money to turkey and other countries outside the union.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would just like to make some brief comments. first, i would like to underline the importance of following the timetable. the trialogue between the institutions will start on the basis of the report that will probably be adopted today. the common aim is to have the decision adopted before the summer in order to pre-empt any risks of non-decision by october 2011, which would lead to the suspension of eib external activities after that date. so i would underline that this is an extremely important issue. i can also say that the eib has been active in many countries which have become very important. the egyptian portfolio is one of the largest in the eib. from the start of its activities, the bank has provided financing of more than eur 4.3 billion, mostly to the private sector. i would also like to clarify that the bank and the budget are two different things. the bank is operating with shareholders’ money, in this case capital paid in by the member states. the bank must be responsible for ensuring that all money lent is paid back. it is part of banks’ culture that they are evaluated by ratings. it has already been mentioned twice here that the eib has the highest rating. these ratings must not deteriorate. that is very important. the professionalism of the bank must ensure that this rating, which is also a symbol of european finances, is maintained. regarding how the eib is controlled, there is a board. the commission and all member states are members of the board. the eib can be investigated by olaf and, of course, the court of auditors gives its opinion about the eib. so there are democratic mechanisms and the bank must operate within this framework. the eu guarantee only covers sovereign and political risks and it has never created a loss for the eu budget since its creation in 1960. the eib is a solid institution. of course there is a large variety of choice in decision-making – whom to lend to and how to lend – and so these political guidelines discussed here today, and your opinions, are highly valued. they will definitely be taken into account.
rapporteur. − mr president, i have just three points. first, the european investment bank is a european institution. it is part of the lisbon treaty. as such, it should be one of those helping to achieve the goals of the european union, be these inside or outside the union. i would draw the attention of the people who said that the bank should not have involvements outside the union to the fact that the european union has an external policy and the european investment bank might be helpful in achieving its goals. second, the european investment bank is a financial institution which is top-rated. it is a very stable financial institution and all the amendments that we tabled were targeted at keeping its stability on the market. at the same time, this is not in contradiction with the possibility of reporting and assessing the development and the climate impact of european investment bank projects. again this is not increasing the risk; this is increasing the transparency of the bank. i appreciate very much what the commissioner said. he is right: i expect we touched on some sensitive issues that have been discussed in the council where no decision has been taken so far, including the blending between eu loans and the grants from the bank, and how to make european development aid more efficient. the european union is the largest donor – not only as a union but as regards the member states – with very low visibility. we have two alternatives: either not to touch this issue because it is sensitive or to try to work with the council to work out a better option and to increase the efficiency of all the funds spent by the european union. thank you very much for your support. i would expect a very broad consensus and a very strong vote in parliament, on the basis of which we can enter into negotiations with the council.
rapporteur. − mr president, in the light of the recent developments in the countries of the mediterranean and north africa, the democratic changes and the consequences of those developments, including the migration flow towards the european union, i would like to suggest an oral amendment to the report, with some figures. the amendment is as follows: in annex 1 the new figure for item b ‘neighbourhood and partnership countries’ should read 13 664 000 000, with the figure for the sub-ceiling for ‘mediterranean countries’ 9 700 000 000. the result of these changes would be a correction to the figures in article 2(1)(1). the correct figure for the ‘maximum ceiling’ is now 29 567 000 000 and the correct ‘general mandate’ figure is 27 567 000 000.
in writing. − i was pleased to sign and vote in favour of the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the eu strategy for the danube region. the danube strategy is a chance to unlock the potential for development and cooperation of many european regions in a wide variety of fields. i would like to emphasise the place of the danube strategy in two areas which i consider very important, namely the development of tourism and the maintenance of security in the region. as regards the place of the danube strategy in the development of tourism, it can contribute to reducing socio-economic disparities in europe, create new jobs and stimulate cultural dialogue and knowledge of the rich european cultural, ethnic and natural heritage in the region. the danube strategy can contribute to maintaining security in the danube region and play an important role in regulating migration within and outside the union and in the fight against crime. in order to achieve real results, working together in such sensitive areas as security and migration is a top priority. i therefore welcome the strengthening of regional cooperation in these areas and the provision of better institutional capacity in this regard.
in writing. − i was happy to sign and vote in favour of the european parliament's resolution on food price increases, because urgent measures are needed to ensure food price stability. my colleagues and i are calling for a solution to the problems at the root of food price inflation: abuses of dominant positions by buyers, unfair bargaining practices, lack of information on pricing, distribution of profits within the food chain and speculation in commodity markets. we want the cap reform to provide a stable first pillar to support farm incomes and to introduce market support measures. in order to reduce speculation on commodity markets, the ep calls on the commission to ensure greater transparency by exchanging high-quality and timely information on market developments. we also want to improve the position of farmers in the food chain so that they can get a greater share of the profits in the food industry. i also welcome the call for faster action by the g20 to coordinate mechanisms against price increases and to develop regulations to deal with food and agriculture crises.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, madam vice-president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, i was born in 1979, when for the first time european citizens directly elected their representatives. i am proud that in the same year, for the first time, a woman - simone veil - who has courageously defended women's rights, became president of the european parliament. today, i am one of the 35% of women represented in this house. this is the highest number ever in the european parliament. to whom do we owe it? to all those women who had the intelligence, strength and courage to come together to demand the right to vote, the right to work and to education. women who simply wanted to stand up for their dignity and rights. so for a hundred years now we have been fighting against unjust and unfounded discrimination. while considerable progress has been made, tackling inequality between women and men is a daily task and we still have a lot to do. the european union has always been at the forefront of gender equality. i believe that our parliamentary assembly must always be at the forefront of this dynamic, even on the most sensitive issues. the economic crisis we are going through has brought us face to face with our own contradictions. as i stress in my report, women have been more severely and more permanently affected by the crisis than men. but as i also stress, let us stop feeling sorry for ourselves, let us move, let us make proposals! let's take this opportunity to reexamine our thinking and move forward. today, it is important to emphasize the role of the school in combating gender stereotypes. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is based on the principle of equal treatment. it is also time to end the persistent gender pay gap and i also believe that we must now move up the gear when we look at the composition of the boards of directors of large companies. only 3% of board members of large publicly traded companies are women. i don't think that's right. we have to put our foot down. and if, despite all our efforts, the big companies continue to hold back, then unfortunately we will have to shake up the spectrum of quotas and binding targets. i am not talking about quotas out of a good heart, because i am not in favour of them. but if the carrot doesn't work, then, for want of a better one, the stick will have to be shaken. it is undeniable that the presence of women in the labour market is a positive factor in terms of economic growth. today, the european recovery is more likely to succeed if gender equality policies are integrated into it. concrete proposals for better reconciling work, family and private life must be made to prove that our wishes are not dreams; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, madam president, i would like to make one final point: i was pleased to hear that the european commission was going to make a proposal in the spring to combat violence against women. the various forms of violence against women are a scourge that we must combat with all our strength. i would like to thank the commissioner for being so proactive in this area. madam president, i am not a pessimist, so i would like to end on a note of encouragement, if i may. i believe that on this day, when we celebrate the 100th anniversary of international women's day, we must salute the courage, strength and determination with which women in tunisia, libya, iran, egypt and so many others are fighting for the defence of human rights. the wind of freedom blowing in north africa should sweep away the remnants of authoritarianism, poverty and social misery, so that women in these countries can empower themselves socially, politically and economically, while respecting their culture and traditions. it is also our role in the european parliament to welcome them, encourage them and support them in their hard-fought struggle for democracy and human rights. but beware, the man with the big "h"!
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all let me congratulate all my colleagues on the fruitful work done over the years as summarised in my report on inequality between men and women, and on the crucial issue of poverty addressed in mrs plumb’s report. while celebrating the 100th anniversary of international women’s day, it is crucial that this house take stock of the long way we still have to go to ensure gender equality across the union and to mainstream it into all sectors and areas. let us start with the employment sector and the gender pay gap. how long will we sit contemplating statistics showing unequal positions, with women paid up to 34% less than men in some eu member states? we must push for measures – legislative if necessary – to achieve concrete results in practice and not just on paper. the place of women in the european labour market, and the numerous obstacles they have to face in the form of discrimination, contribute to the rising phenomenon of women’s poverty. too many women remain in a position of relative economic insecurity and dependence. they tend to be concentrated in part-time and temporary jobs that are less-well paid, or in inferior positions. poverty gives rise to trafficking in women, to violence and, more generally, to exploitation of all kinds. we also know that as a result of poverty, women victims of domestic violence prefer not to take steps for their own protection because of a lack of financial security. mrs reding, on this symbolic day we look forward to the eu strategy on combating violence against women, as you have already promised.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, thank you, members, because i have received your message very well. i can sum it up in one sentence: you too, overwhelmingly, no longer accept the 90% male quota in the executive bodies of our companies and you think that this must change. (applause) i would like to thank let's work together to change that. when, after having heard your rapporteur and all the interventions, i analyse what has been said, i think we agree that women do reasonably well in politics. there is still a long way to go, but we are on the right track. unfortunately, we do not do reasonably well in the economy. we are absent in decision-making and i got your message that we must change that. we are present in low income jobs, when 60% of university graduates are female. they get lost on the way to where we need them in times of crisis, in order to improve things economically. we have no choice. how are we to reach the 75% employability, if not by using the untapped potential of these well-trained women? we really need to change the way in which we tackle employment, by giving women a chance and bringing in the talent which we have trained and educated, and which is available for employment. i have taken note of the interventions about the victims. it is true that not all victims are female or children. they can also be men but victims are mainly female, including small girls. that is why, in the victims' package, which i will present in may, this fact will be taken into consideration. shortly after this we will be celebrating one hundred years of international women's day. we should not forget that we are also celebrating one hundred years since marie curie won the nobel prize. i would like to say to all the women in this room that we should be proud to be women. [applause] i know.
member of the commission. − madam president, i believe that one hundred years of struggle and one hundred years of progress have to be respected, but we also have to acknowledge that contemporary europe is still far from full equality between men and women. many of these inequalities are reproduced through the imbalances in the labour markets and the bias against women in many segments and in many institutions within the labour market. that is why i believe that european policies and european financial instruments will have to be used to improve the situation in this area, and to improve employment opportunities and employment conditions of women, in order to make progress. many concrete actions are possible. for example, as regards european funds, wherever it is possible and reasonable, equal opportunities conditionality would be very important, and we want to pursue this. however, direct job creation is also important. one of the key directions in job creation in the coming decade will be towards so-called ‘white jobs’ – jobs in health care and long-term care. here we have to focus on creating opportunities, because much of this work is in any case being done by women, but without proper remuneration and without the opportunity to accumulate rights, including pension rights for their old age. on the question of pensions, in the white paper on pensions to be published in the third quarter of this year, we will pay more attention to the gender dimension. there is a group of commissioners working on this pensions white paper, and with vice-president reding participating and contributing we will manage to address the gender dimension of pensions more forcefully than in the previous green paper. i agree with mrs zimmer. this is also a question of regulating working time. that is absolutely fundamental. we need an eu working time regulation which allows for better accommodation of working needs and family responsibilities. a better work-life balance is absolutely essential. this is part of our decent work agenda. i agree with those who highlighted that this is not only an issue that applies inside the eu: this is an international responsibility which we have to pursue. to highlight one more connection – that between the labour market and education – we have to go deep in order to improve the quality of education, to raise awareness, to teach about rights, including women’s rights especially and – this is very important – rights for european minorities, whether they are immigrants or other ethnic minorities. finally, on the question of quotas on corporate boards, i had an opportunity last week to discuss this matter with the new head of the confederation of british industry – i am sure mr bloom will be interested to hear that. there are many aspects to this question. apart from tackling stereotypes and the organisational and cultural aspects, our discussion also highlighted the need to organise family life differently, because of the time demands of top-level jobs. that is why we have to act on many fronts. we must not extend this discussion solely to working life and public life. i believe that if we continue the discussion, and the commission’s efforts, with due responsibility, we can make progress in the future.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, madam reding, commissioner, i would like to thank all my colleagues for their contributions and speeches. today's debate once again demonstrates how much we care about equality between women and men. we all share common values and principles: respect for human dignity, the fight against inequality and discrimination. i have great respect for the personal, and often even national, connotation that each of us brings to these values and principles. this is the richness of the european approach to these questions. however, these different connotations should not make us lose sight of our common goals. we should continue to work to improve the conditions of women in the workplace, in their personal lives and in their family life. their access to the labour market, especially to positions of responsibility, should be further promoted and national authorities, institutions, political bodies and enterprises should be given greater responsibility. it is up to all of us to show that these goals are achievable. yes, it has been said many times today: fighting inequality between women and men is a daily struggle. strong political will must be matched by concrete action. i welcome all the actions announced by the commission and i thank all my colleagues in advance for the support we will give them. i would like to make one further point. during the debate i was criticised for the length of the text, which seems to be getting longer every year. is it because the previous recommendations have not been fully implemented? i know! let's make sure everyone respects them. i also believe that this is due to the complexity of the issue and its dynamic developments. i would like to stress that it is up to us to keep up with them, not to remain trapped by outdated ideas, so that we can then guide them. finally, i believe that equality between women and men is still a matter for everyone. i believe above all in the free will of each of us to be aware of it and to work towards its realization. 2011 is the european year of volunteering, so let's make making real progress on gender equality our biggest joint initiative of the year.
madam president, i am conscious that this report is very controversial and that striking a compromise within this house can at times become extremely difficult, yet we should still try to keep our debates balanced and factual. firstly, let us remember that the ankara agreement provided for the four freedoms of movement and for the customs union between turkey and the eu. also, several ecj rulings, as well as existing visa regimes for other candidate states, have proved the point that visa liberalisation for turkish citizens, especially business people and students, should be clearly endorsed in this report. secondly, we should call for new momentum on the stalled situation in cyprus. implementation of the council decision of 26 april 2004 would greatly encourage turkey to implement the ec-turkey association agreement. this would not only lead to economic and political gains for both sides, but would also allow all the inhabitants of the island to trade freely, and it would eliminate the current double standards in the eu. it is time to show that the european parliament can make a difference.
congratulations to mrs oomen-ruijten on her good work. we look at turkey as an important euro-atlantic partner. that is why i am sure that despite our contradictions, we all agree that we need a reformed, democratic, secular and european turkey. i am personally very concerned about the risk of an islamic orientation of turkish domestic and foreign policy. we have seen that a section of the political class in turkey is clearly unwilling to abide by the principle of strict separation of religion and politics, which ataturk laid down. europe must help turkey to overcome the internal divisions in turkish society, including improving the situation of minorities, as well as improving relations with its neighbours. of course, we can't just point the finger at turkey. her neighbors must also make their way in that direction. i expect a partnership on all common issues of common interest, especially cooperation in nato and in energy infrastructure. finally, i hope and expect turkey to sign the expected readmission agreement with the european union as soon as possible, without delay or additional conditions.
the president of the council. - madam president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, members of the house, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the hungarian presidency attaches great importance to the issue of roma integration and is grateful to the european parliament for its active support on this issue. let's not forget what's at stake. this is a matter of life and death for millions of our fellow citizens who have the right to enjoy the same opportunities as everyone else, and our societies cannot afford to ignore their potential. i would therefore like to congratulate you on the excellent draft resolution you are about to adopt, which i strongly support. we share your desire to make good on your promises. the international roma day is celebrated on 8 april worldwide. the hungarian presidency is organising the fifth meeting of the eu integrated forum on roma inclusion in budapest today, which i am sure many of you will be attending. as a central element of this event, the commission will present its strategic communication on the subject and we invite ms járóka lívia to present the main elements of the resolution. the hungarian presidency will then work out a draft council conclusions which we hope will be adopted by the employment, social affairs, health and consumer affairs council at its meeting on 19 may. these conclusions will deal exclusively with the issue of roma integration and will seek to strengthen cooperation between the eu and its member states in the area of roma economic and social integration. we also intend to organise an exchange of views on the commission's ideas in other council configurations. at the end of may, the general affairs council will hold a key debate on this subject in preparation for the european council in june. in order to make progress, we must get rid of stereotypes, generalizations and prejudices. we must be aware that the living conditions of roma are not always the same everywhere. we also need to consider the historical causes of their social exclusion. the benefits of the political transition and the transition to a market economy in central and eastern europe cannot be enjoyed by all citizens in equal measure. many roma have been marginalized in the last 20 years. today, it is particularly important that we condemn with a firm hand all acts of aggression committed on racist grounds, by whoever commits them. in a difficult economic situation, the vulnerable become even more vulnerable, and often look to others for the cause of their misery. but we have common values and the means to defend them, as it has been more than 10 years since the council adopted the anti-racial discrimination directives. i particularly welcome the emphasis on the elimination of segregation. segregation creates a vicious circle and creates fault lines within each society. i am also very pleased that this resolution also covers gender equality. let me remind you of an earlier resolution adopted in 2006 on the situation of roma women. every woman should be allowed to harness her abilities. we need more roma women in decision-making. members of the house of representatives! and the speaker, livia the walking man, can inspire all of us, especially women, but also men. i would like to thank mrs járóka and all of you once again for taking part in this crucial process and would like to remind you once again that the hungarian presidency is determined to achieve substantial results in this area. please help us with this.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the european union, as you know, is built on rights and values and these include the protection of minorities, the principle of free movement and the prohibition of discrimination – all these apply fully to the roma. the social and economic integration of roma is, i think, a moral obligation, but also, as parliament’s report rightly pointed out, an economic interest of our european societies. it is a priority for the eu and it needs commitment and the joint efforts of national and local authorities, civil society and the eu institutions. i would like to congratulate ms lívia járóka on the wonderful work she has been doing. she has been doing it by trying to integrate the whole house and getting a paper proposal which represents the meaningful input of parliamentarians from all political parties, and i think that is a real achievement. this will help us, ms járóka, to keep roma inclusion high on the political agenda. it will help us to take the necessary steps to improve the situation of the roma people and their social and economic integration into society. permit me to update you on where we stand. as you might remember, on 7 april 2010 the commission adopted a communication on the social and economic integration of roma in europe, which was the first ever policy document dedicated specifically to roma. the communication contained a concrete list of actions to help member states make their policies for roma integration more effective and to define the main challenges ahead: discrimination, poverty, low educational achievement, labour market barriers, housing, segregation, and so on. then came the assessment of the commission’s internal roma task force, which was set up on 7 september 2010 and which very clearly showed that there is no evidence that strong and proportionate measures are in place in the member states to tackle the social and economic problems of a large part of the eu’s roma population. this situation is neither acceptable nor sustainable and therefore the commission is working on an eu framework for national roma integration strategies which it will present in early april. this house has called for an eu strategy and the commission is responding to this request. we all agree, i think, that we need effective policy planning and implementation, that we need a strategic approach. we also agree, i think, that the primary responsibility for roma populations lies with the member states in which these roma populations are moving, and it is for that reason that the commission is drawing up this eu framework combined with national roma integration strategies, because we need both: we need to know where we are all going together and we need to know where each individual member state will go in order to adapt specific policies to the problems of the roma in that member state. the eu framework to be presented in april will build on your resolution, ms járóka, on the work of the commission’s roma task force and, of course, on the wide range of contributions received from member states and from civil society. there is a need for concrete actions, for clear commitments, to make better use of the range of legal and financial instruments available in order to achieve a breakthrough. i will not speak for long on this, because my colleague mr andor is responsible for this dossier, but the europe 2020 strategy leads to a new path for persistent economic and social actions for those who are marginalised and we know that poverty is a very big problem in europe’s largest minority. here, determined action is needed both at national and eu level. the commission also considers that it is very important to learn from the lessons of the past and to make sure that the efforts of all stakeholders, at all levels from the eu down to the local level, are very well coordinated. for this coordination work we do have the european platform for roma inclusion, which is a unique mechanism for involving the stakeholders. i think it would be important to reinforce the role of this platform in the future. i also heard with great interest parliament’s proposal to have a national contact point and we will consider this when we prepare the eu framework. i would also like to assure you that in drawing up the framework the commission will pay special attention to the need to monitor developments and follow the process and the progress on the ground, and here i appeal to parliament. this must not be a case of a very good report by parliament and then an interesting framework from the european union; this must be a work in progress and a measured work in progress, a monitored work in progress, so that we can see where we are going in future and in this regard we will continue to work closely with the member states and with this parliament, as well as with all the stakeholders. (applause)
member of the commission. − madam president, i would also like to thank the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for its excellent work on the eu strategy on roma inclusion and to congratulate the rapporteur, ms lívia járóka, on the impressive support that this report has received from the house. the report is both helpful and encouraging. it is helpful because it contributes to the ongoing debate on how to further the integration of roma people into the economy and society. it is encouraging because it shows that the commission and parliament have moved in the same direction and that our views on the way forward largely coincide. firstly, the commission agrees that the roma issue is one of the most important strategic challenges that europe faces and at the same time it provides one of the most promising opportunities for the continent. when we speak of opportunities, we also mean economic opportunities. there is indeed a social and economic necessity coupled here with a moral imperative. secondly, parliament’s report makes a convincing case for the need to adopt a holistic approach to tackling the socioeconomic situation of the roma. it suggests focusing on a number of priority areas, such as education, employment, housing and health care. these are indeed areas of critical importance for the successful integration of the roma people. thirdly, i welcome the focus in the report on the importance of using eu funds in the most appropriate way. it is essential to underpin policies with sufficient financial resources. although we have made progress in this area, more needs to be done. fourthly, i agree with parliament that we need to put in place a strong mechanism to monitor national strategies for roma integration. lastly, i have taken good note that the report advocates focusing on the territorial dimension of poverty, and in particular in underdeveloped micro-regions. the commission will carefully look into this interesting proposal. it is clear that a number of member states will not be able to make sufficient progress towards the europe 2020 targets unless they take concrete steps to improve roma integration. it is, therefore, high time for determined action at both national and eu level. although member states are primarily responsible for designing and implementing roma integration strategies, the eu can indeed support them. we need to ensure that efforts at all levels are part of a coherent and consistent policy framework. i am confident that the eu framework for national roma integration strategies – which, as the vice-president has already said, the commission will present in april – will provide the opportunity for the eu institutions and all stakeholders to join forces and make a tangible difference to the lives of roma people in europe.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. - i congratulate mrs járóka on her excellent cooperation. the integration of some 12 million roma into the european union cannot be achieved without the will of both the roma and the majority in the member state concerned. the integration of the roma population is a responsibility of both the member states and the european union. european funds should be used to improve engineering infrastructure, to build new or to renovate existing housing, to improve education and to improve access to the labour market. there is no single solution that applies in the same way everywhere. even within the territory of one member state, different approaches may be required in different regions. i believe that beneficiaries of european funds should be involved in building their own home or surroundings, so that they feel a sense of solidarity and, of course, that they are good stewards. politics and business need to rediscover the roma, to make access to the labour market better for them, so that they can contribute to the economic development and prosperity of the european union. i really hope that this report will have real application and contribute to the better social and economic inclusion of the roma on our continent.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the tajani, colleagues, today europe can and must take a new path by creating a new integrated industrial policy. the integration of all the factors in the european union affecting industry will be crucial here. i'll just mention some of them. first, to ensure sustainable long-term supplies of key raw materials for the development of europe's high-tech sectors. in this context, i call for enhanced cooperation with resource-rich third countries. secondly, an economy based on innovation and the free movement of knowledge. i am pleading for strengthening the key link between education, vocational training and working life. europe produces the most phd students in the world, but is not successful in translating their skills and knowledge into truly viable market solutions. we need to build european innovation hubs where knowledge and market needs will actively cooperate. third, the transition to a low-carbon economy is key. europe's high-tech edge will allow us to take full advantage of the potential and benefits of the 'green' economy of the future. all these elements require a new level of cooperation between member states and the european institutions.
mrs. ashton, in 1999, in order to avoid rioting in opposition-held benghazi, gaddafi needed a scapegoat to blame for the aids-infected children in libya's poor health care system. he found them in the face of six bulgarian doctors and a palestinian doctor who spent long, painful years in libyan prisons. but gaddafi's manipulation failed internally, and the proof of that is that it was from benghazi that the revolution began today. the medical staff, victims of gaddafi's dictatorship, have become a shining symbol of european solidarity. today, this european solidarity is expected by the libyan citizens themselves, by the libyan youth. it is expected of those for whom the arab world is not confronted with the dilemma of "either dictatorship or islamism" and who every day, including with their blood, prove that there is also a place for democracy in this world. so today, as we debate the future of libya, we europeans must be objective in our assessments, decisive in our actions and, most importantly, united in our decisions. we must give our support to the principles of freedom and democracy in this world.
in writing. the departure of muammar gaddafi is the urgency of the moment. but there 's also everything else; and what matters is the people. we focus on dictators, but we often leave out the people who suffer the consequences first. the libyan people's march towards freedom cannot take place without a genuine political transition in the country. but a democratic transition can never succeed without real opposition leaders. at the moment, the opposition is very weak. giving it more visibility is a necessary first step in making a push. on the other hand, a strong regional strategy is needed. even on the question of refugees, the neighbouring states cannot agree on how to prevent the flow of refugees from being blocked at the borders. as a result, health conditions deteriorate, fuelling intra-community tensions. if we do not tackle this humanitarian crisis, we risk facing a situation that could quickly spiral out of control.
mr president, i would like to thank mr belder for his excellent report. just one day after celebrating the 100th anniversary of international women’s day, i would like to make a special point about the situation of women in iran, and please allow me to dedicate this speech not only to sakineh ashtiani and zahra bahrami, but to all women put in jail and those who are missing because of the current iranian repression. the eu has to take into account the aspirations for democratic change of the people of iran and the unacceptable situation that iranian women have to face. we know that there is discrimination, and even political and social repression, affecting women in this country, and we should echo these unacceptable facts when considering our approach towards iran. while the situation is currently deteriorating, women’s rights activists in the country have continued taking the lead in opposing the current repression and denial of civil liberties and human rights. women’s rights should not be an optional negotiation point and i hope, madam vice-president/high representative, that the eu will uphold this violence without compromising them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr bastiaan belder. we have now been calling for regime change in iran for too long. human rights are constantly being flouted by the brains of the current regime. the shameful situation in which the residents of camp ashraf are kept, the continuing violation of women's rights, discrimination against homosexuals, censorship of artists, etc. at our european level, we can only do so if effective sanctions are taken against the regime's leaders. but punishing is not enough. we must also encourage those who are fighting for their rights in the country. should not the european union support all human rights defenders in iran? the democratic wind that is blowing today in north africa should be extended to iran.
author. − mr president, belarus is so often on our agenda and this is because we care, because we want to see a democratic belarus where human rights are respected. i have the impression, however, that the messages that we send so often to the belarusian authorities are not heard – neither those from the european parliament, nor those from the european council. the decisions of the council have had no effect so far on the situation in belarus. after a year of very modest progress, 19 december 2010 became a turning point for belarus. since then the country has been falling into self-isolation: this can save the regime for some time, but it is at the expense of the future of the belarusian nation. this has to be understood, and we will not stop reminding lukashenko and his friends of it. i hope that president lukashenko will take good note of the events in the southern neighbourhood and understand that the only responsible behaviour is the democratisation and the social and economic reforms in the country. we in the european parliament will not give up; we call for the immediate and unconditional release of all detained protestors and for the dropping of all politically motivated charges. at the same time we still believe that belarus has time to change; we are working together with the other five eastern neighbours to find a solution leading to democratisation and to the creation of a situation in belarus where free and fair elections can take place at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year.
in writing. - mr president, as the representative of bulgaria in the european parliament, i voted against the draft decision because i think it imposes double standards, and i am firmly against double standards. we have already seen such double standards in the case of greece, which instead of being punished, was rewarded with 120 billion euros, while bulgaria worries about its postponed future in the eurozone.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to concentrate a little more on one of the hot topics that will be discussed tomorrow, namely the situation in libya. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. especially when countries join the coalition and then stop participating, it's impossible to reach an agreement within nato. this, in addition to creating great uncertainty among our partners about what we actually want to achieve and how we can achieve it, creates great problems for european public opinion, which cannot be convinced that the european union, and its leaders, are living up to the responsibilities they have towards our partners in the southern mediterranean. i would very much like the european council in the coming days to come out with clear and solid decisions on libya, but not only on libya, but also on the other countries where we actually have a similar situation, like bahrain, yemen, to some extent syria. we somehow overlook that what we do in libya will be judged by the way we treat other countries in the region. i would like the european council to make clear what the european union wants to achieve in libya, which will also greatly facilitate the question of how to achieve it. i think we should be aware of the fact that the situation in libya will have very serious consequences on the neighbouring countries if the current situation continues for a long time. so we have to be ready to help both egypt and tunisia not only with dealing with the humanitarian situation, but also to have economic financial support ready in the next literally days, weeks and months, because the situation there will affect the economic situation in these two countries.
mr president, a good idea was discussed a few days ago in the libe committee to improve the mechanism for assessing schengen countries on how they apply schengen law and on the progress of countries applying to join schengen. but the criteria must be clear and valid for all - not mixed with abstract moralizing criteria, not politicized. for example, it requires applicant countries to monitor levels of corruption. it is very important to prosecute and expose corruption, but it is difficult to objectify this process in each country individually, i.e. we should not allow subjectivism when we seek to improve the evaluation mechanism. because there are penalties. some of them could be financial. it takes a lot of precision. so applicants have to prepare thoroughly, otherwise they risk being delayed, and those who are in schengen but have failed, should know that under the sanctions their membership may be frozen.
ladies and gentlemen, i rise to draw your attention to a complex problem that unfortunately affects every single citizen of bulgaria, namely the daily racket that banks impose on consumers. it's absurd that some of the banks in bulgaria charge fees for both depositing and withdrawing money. recently, i was the victim of a bank's insane pressure and unlawful blocking of funds in my account. and it turns out i have no legal grounds to protest. the legislation is not strictly regulated. the strong banking lobby or the weak political will mean that the state does not interfere in the bilateral contract between the customer and the bank, and it is clear to everyone how unequal the partners under this contract are. the problem, in my view, is that competition has not led to acceptable market conditions and i believe that state intervention is necessary. i call for the earlier introduction of sepa and for a clear framework for the supervision of banks. i hope that the bank's customer will be more cared for and taken care of, because now he's just the object of a daily racket.
in writing. − i voted 'yes' because i believe it is necessary to increase the impact of the current system and to improve the use of the common system of preferences by providing technical assistance specifically designed to build institutional and regulatory capacity to allow the countries most in need to reap the full benefits of international trade and the system of preferences. assistance should also be provided for the effective application of international conventions required by this regime and for the fulfilment of their obligations. i believe that developing countries should help fight poverty by generating revenues through international trade. it's the most widely used system of its kind in the developed world. i believe that the extension is necessary to achieve absolute legal certainty and to safeguard the interests of both the eu and the beneficiary countries. but in the meantime, we must not delay in resolving the present unsatisfactory situation, but must continually look for ways to help the weaker and needy countries.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, before this agreement, aviation was the subject of bilateral agreements with 19 of the eu member states. i supported this proposal because it will facilitate air transport, but mainly because it provides for the phasing-in of air transport rights and investment opportunities, as well as large-scale cooperation in a number of areas, including safety, security, social issues, consumer interests, the environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition. such an agreement was necessary.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my explanation of vote concerns the agreement between the european union and vietnam on air transport. i voted in favour of this agreement because i found that the agreement agreed by the commission replaced in the right direction some provisions in the existing 17 bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and vietnam. as we know, under the rules parliament cannot make changes, but i think the commission has negotiated the necessary agreement and i support it.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this own-initiative report is an appeal by the european parliament to formulate a more ambitious union policy towards the gulf cooperation council and its member states. i voted for this report because i think that is the direction we should take. moreover, the gulf cooperation council recently announced that it no longer recognizes the legitimacy of the regime of muammar gaddafi. this policy of his is a source of joy and encouragement to us. the council condemned the crimes committed by the gaddafi regime against the civilian population and called for the immediate intervention of the league of arab states and the un security council. the process of integration initiated thirty years ago by the six member states of this council remains at present the only experience in the arab world. we have to support them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a single procedure for third-country nationals to apply for a single permit to reside and work in the territory of a member state, as i believe that the growing wave of emigration towards the eu needs to be adequately regulated. the administrative requirements for the admission of third-country nationals for the purpose of work are excessively complex and unclear. the introduction of the single permit system will help to streamline the overall procedure, make it more efficient and much cheaper. we should also not forget that the establishment of a single document will facilitate the control by local authorities of citizens arriving in the eu. last but not least, i am pleased that the text voted on has been supported by my colleagues, because it is designed to guarantee the social and economic rights of migrant workers and aims to avoid social dumping or unfair competition within the eu.
in writing. − i supported the report by my colleague giles chichester on the establishment of the european network and information security agency with regard to the duration of the agency, as i believe that information and communication technologies (ict) have become the backbone of the european economy and society as a whole. ict is vulnerable to threats that transcend national borders and change as a result of technological and market developments. as icts are global, interconnected and dependent on other infrastructure, their security and sustainability cannot be ensured by purely national and uncoordinated approaches. at the same time, the challenges of the cis are evolving dynamically. network and information systems must be effectively protected against all types of disruption and failure, including man-made attacks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on japan because i believe it is our duty to show solidarity with a people who have suffered three tragedies and lost many of their citizens. unfortunately, the outcome of this tragedy is still unknown. on the other hand, the tragedy in japan, in particular the fukushima incident and the subsequent state of emergency, has put the question of the need for nuclear energy and its consequences back on the agenda. at the same time, i am convinced that we should not exaggerate what happened and emotionally withdraw from nuclear energy. i believe that europe needs nuclear energy and that we should approach this matter pragmatically rather than rushing to close down power stations.
on behalf of the alde group. – thank you mr president. let me first thank the rapporteur for the great work accomplished and all my colleagues for their determination not to give up fighting gender-based violence. this report shows that the european parliament considers that immediate action to combat violence against women is not only necessary but urgently needed. the commission must acknowledge that all arguments point to the fact that eu-wide measures and instruments have to be introduced. we know that, throughout the union, huge discrepancies exist in member states’ legislation to combat violence against women. last year, a feasibility study by the directorate-general for justice found differences in access to protection orders, the availability of support services and the expertise and capacity of the responsible public servants. we have seen signs of commitment towards the eradication of all forms of violence and an efficient policy framework at eu level, notably within the women’s charter which you presented last year, and the communication on the implementation of the stockholm programme. nevertheless, many member states have failed in implementing efficient legislation to protect women from all forms of violence and discrimination, and we are now seeing that the core values of our union do not apply to half its citizens. therefore, we now call on the commission to come up with a dedicated legislative proposal. a set of minimum requirements must be drawn up and incorporated into a legislative act which should be part of a comprehensive strategy addressing all forms of gender-based violence. this strategy and policy initiative should also be complemented by broad awareness-raising activities. i am thinking in particular about a european year on combating all forms of violence against women, for which we are currently collecting citizens’ signatures. finally, having regained our founding principles laid down in the treaty, and the commitment from your side which has already been stated, we expect today a clear answer on how and when the commission intends to propose effective measures at eu level.
in writing. when we talk about violence against women, we often lack data, figures, trends. what we need above all is to be able to measure this phenomenon at european level, in order to understand the scale of the problem in order to better target needs and thus prevent cases of violence, help victims and heal wounds. we must always remember the victims. whether we are talking about sexual abuse, trafficking in women for prostitution, domestic violence or even cultural violence - i am thinking here of genital mutilation and forced marriage - these are still serious crimes. we need to find a general european framework to protect women from this type of violence. we cannot be so cold-blooded about making europe the protector of women. we need a european legal framework to put in place concrete measures such as the emergency telephone number; training programmes for the police and teachers. the eu must offer solutions within its own territory, but as a global player, it must also extend its scope of action beyond its borders.
madam president, mr barroso, mr rompay, the crisis we are in at the moment confirms the need for visionaries in europe, not only among decision-makers but also among citizens. it's sad, but it's the truth. we've lost a lot of time and missed a lot of opportunities in the years of growth. the creation of the single currency is an undeniable success. it looks like a beautiful house with a broken roof. we moved in during a dry spell, and now it's raining, raining in the eurozone, raining high deficits and indebtedness, low creditworthiness. the europlus pact and the council decisions are a step in the right direction. the economic semester is a measure that will make our economies and budgets more coordinated and more resilient in financial crises. i welcome and welcome the decision of 60 countries outside the euro area, including my country bulgaria, to join the pact, so that they can actively participate in the decision-making process on economic policies and not allow europe to be divided by different standards and principles. i am sure that sooner or later european economic policies must be based on the community method and not on the intergovernmental method as it is now, and the day may not be far off when there will be a new intergovernmental conference or, why not, a convention on the economic and political governance of europe. i welcome the council's conclusion on the libyan situation. the european union should be actively involved in the post-conflict democratic process and help the libyan people to build a state of law and civil society. this will, of course, send a signal to the other countries in the region that europe stands behind the legitimate demands of its citizens. europe also needs to learn its lessons from the crisis in libya and across the arab world. what more can we do for our neighbors, for our close neighbors to the south? can we use our experience from the eastern partnership in the mediterranean? finally, mr rompuy and mr barroso, europe needs a rapid reaction force that can carry out missions under the european union flag. to do that, we need more capabilities and more integration in security and defence, without, of course, duplicating or replacing nato.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because migration flows arising from instability in one country are a challenge for the whole european union. the resolution is a first step towards creating a single european policy to tackle migration. this policy should also act as a prevention policy. to do this, it must combine all possible instruments of the european union for assistance in the field of social and economic development and thus directly affect the causes of instability in the countries of origin of migration flows.
in writing. − the common agricultural policy aims at high-quality and sustainable rural development. i am voting in favour of the text because i believe that women have a very important role to play in modern society. in recent years it has become clear that many of the projects in rural areas would be unthinkable without the active participation of women. i also believe that living conditions in rural areas need to be improved and this can be done by increasing access to infrastructure, structures and services for everyday life. women must be given the opportunity to balance their family and professional lives and to preserve the communities in the villages. women must have access to support services, institutions and structures, and their role in decision-making must be strengthened.
in writing. − this report on priorities and the outline of the new eu policy framework to combat violence against women makes a number of interesting proposals. i therefore supported it, but i do not think that it should in any case be a directive requiring each member state to transpose it into its national law. mechanisms to facilitate access to legal aid enabling victims to assert their rights throughout the union should not and cannot be free of charge. i am in favour of creating a legal framework that gives immigrant women the right to have their own passport and residence permit, and to create the possibility for the person who took these documents to be held accountable under criminal law.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i also want to thank the rapporteur, mrs járóka, and the representatives of the commission, the council and the hungarian presidency, because they have made very serious promises to us and have made very important commitments. when we talk about roma integration, we must not forget that this is the most specific and perhaps the most complex problem of europe and the european union. a problem that cannot be solved by funding alone, by anti-discrimination legislation alone, or by launching educational programs alone. this problem can only be solved by a combination of all these approaches and really within a single political will. today, the union is more alone than ever with its 12 million roma. some still do not understand that these people are not just bulgarian, romanian or slovak roma, but are citizens of the union with equal rights and obligations and at the same time with limited opportunities. the situation, as we can see, is quite complex. the european union's roma integration strategy will only be successful if the actions, initiatives and policies of the member states and of all european institutions are more integrated. improvisation and unilateral action may even cause more harm than good, and it is worth noting that in some member states knowledge of the roma is inadequate, in some cases even inverted. it follows that the roma issue in europe must be actively studied and its dynamics professionally monitored. otherwise, instead of neutralizing the leak, we're just moving it from one place to another on the map of the old continent. the core of our ambitious strategy cannot be anything other than a gigantic effort to educate the roma - maximising the inclusion of their children in the education system, providing basic skills for young people, literacy for adults. the overarching goal should be a growing percentage of roma in the coming years, prepared for the labour market and with a cultivated attitude towards institutions and legality. this is the only guarantee that the roma's life will not develop in the future as it has so far as a miserable existence on sand in which the money of european taxpayers has been meaninglessly sunk.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report unfortunately still contains worrying findings concerning the high rate of misuse and the insufficient speed with which it is recovered. however, the data from the european commission are not entirely sufficient to determine disciplinary measures for the member states with the highest rate of irregularities and fraud. most colleagues have already spoken about the difference between fraud and irregularity, which is not clearly underlined, as the report does not deal in detail with fraud, which is an intentional breach of the law, and the approach to irregularities is very general, which did not allow us to make effective recommendations on the matter. i welcome the commission's conclusion that compliance with the reporting requirements in the field of agriculture is now 95%. at the same time, however, low and zero levels of fraud and irregularities in some member states seem suspicious to me and could indicate that the fraud control and detection systems are not working effectively. i believe that the control of the expenditure of european funds would be considerably improved if there were specific data and methods for evaluating the management and control systems in the member states, which would show the effectiveness of the national authorities. because it is entirely possible that countries with zero fraud rates have simply weak controls that do not identify problems, and countries with effective national authorities detect more fraud and irregularities and therefore have significantly higher fraud rates. according to the european court of auditors, at least 30% of the errors could be detected and corrected by the national authorities before being certified to the european commission. i hope that all member states will make greater efforts to improve their mechanisms for detecting and correcting errors. i would like to call on the european commission to take the necessary action to ensure sufficient information on the control and management systems in the member states and adequate measures to quickly address the identified weaknesses where control systems exist.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the very thorough work he has done on this report. we have repeatedly shown that parliament is an institution that is particularly attentive to the way in which european taxpayers' money is spent. many colleagues have raised the issue and i too want to join the call for the commission to adopt much clearer methodological rules for the methodology by which member states are reported, as the confusion of the concepts of 'abuse', 'mistake', even the category 'suspected of abuse' creates statistics on which no clear decisions can be taken in parliament. i also support those parts of the report which encourage the commission to introduce much clearer national reporting rules, which include properly audited national declarations, which are required by member states and they must take automatic measures to remedy the deficiencies.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mrs giannakou's report follows the logic of events in recent years which have aimed to increase the political interest of citizens in union policy. working to regulate european parties today means working to build a civic space without borders. in this sense, the giannakou report is an invitation to reform-minded politicians. the projections in this report are important. they will make european parties a real means of strengthening representative government in the union. it is no coincidence that almost 100 amendments were proposed to this report and that the joint efforts resulted in 7 compromise options supported by all parliamentary groups. i think that the interest in the report in the committee on constitutional affairs was stimulated by the idea of making the european party system even more flexible, attractive and rational, and also adequate to the processes in europe by shaping a common political, legal and fiscal status of european parties. it's not about organizing the parties according to a uniform standard, but following a more general pattern. the main differences between parties and foundations also remain, but there are new opportunities for increased synchronisation in their activities. the report and the expected subsequent developments should change the familiar status quo according to which the parties currently existing are merely organisations of national parties and have no direct link with the voters in the member states. in the context of this ambition, it is recommended to start considering the conditions for direct individual membership and participation of individuals in the internal party life and even in the party management. several sensitive issues are dealt with in this report. for example, a distinction is correctly drawn between the criteria for establishing a political party and the criteria for its funding. the report should be supported in order to allow the commission to initiate the creation of a new section in the financial regulation dedicated exclusively to the financing of european parties and foundations.
mr president, in our democracies there are parliaments which are the voice of the people and then there are political parties and their foundations, which are the thinkers, the 'idea propellers' and the animators of the debate. parliaments are the engines of democracy and political parties provide the fuel. here in this parliament we constantly lament the lack of interest of the citizens in the union. we deplore the abstention rates in the european elections and the voting penalty in the referendums. if we want a genuine european democracy, we must give serious thought to the place we want to give to european political parties in the public space we are trying to build. we have already done a lot with the lisbon treaty and the european citizens' initiative. we must now give the european political parties the means to achieve their ambitions. but i do not think that these means should allow the big parties to become unshakable hegemons. the small structures must also have access to the debate. this is important to combat the negative image of parties and to convince citizens that political parties are not the unloved of democracy. i believe that the strengthening of the european public space we are trying to build requires a clear definition of the conditions for funding and transparency in the management of the means of funding. the approach must be inclusive, so that the big parties are not favoured over the small ones, and vice versa. another point i would like to raise is the continuity between the european, national and regional levels. the european statute we are about to put in place must allow for harmonization with national legislation in this area, so that all levels are interwoven with each other. finally, we must also look very closely at paragraph 23 of the report, because we must also consider the links which european parties could establish with those in the rest of the world. our democratic values should be shared with our partners in the rest of the world, because the globalised world in which we live today calls for policymakers to come together to propose solutions to problems.
in writing. − the conclusion of bilateral fisheries agreements between the european community and third countries, known as 'fisheries partnership agreements', is a common practice in the framework of the common fisheries policy. i am voting in favour of the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with the union of the comoros, as i believe it serves the interests of both parties. on the one hand, the fishing opportunities offered to eu vessels in the comoros area are improved, excluding any possibility of depletion of local stocks in the region, and on the other hand, the eu allocates funds to the development of the sectoral fisheries policy of the union of the comoros.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because there is a need to establish an effective mechanism to resolve trade-related disputes between the european union and the hashemite kingdom of jordan. the proposed mechanism is modelled on the dispute settlement mechanisms of the latest agreements concluded by the european union and is compatible with the dispute settlement rules and procedures of the world trade organisation. this mechanism will support the functioning of the euro-mediterranean free trade area, but above all it will contribute to the stability of bilateral trade relations between the european union and the hashemite kingdom of jordan.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because there is a need to establish an effective mechanism for the settlement of trade-related disputes between the european union and the kingdom of morocco. the proposed mechanism is modelled on the dispute settlement mechanisms of the latest agreements concluded by the european union and is compatible with the dispute settlement rules and procedures of the world trade organisation. this mechanism will contribute to the stability of bilateral trade relations between the european union and the kingdom of morocco.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because there is a need to establish an effective mechanism for resolving trade-related disputes between the european union and the arab republic of egypt. the proposed mechanism is modelled on the dispute settlement mechanisms of the latest agreements concluded by the european union and is compatible with the dispute settlement rules and procedures of the world trade organisation. this mechanism will support the functioning of the euro-mediterranean free trade area, but above all it will contribute to the stability of bilateral trade relations between the european union and the arab republic of egypt.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, mr president, this protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for ukraine's participation in union programmes. it contains standard clauses which are intended to apply to all european neighbourhood policy partner countries with which such protocols are to be concluded. in my opinion, ukraine is making the necessary efforts and i support the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. - i think the proposals are contradictory. on the one hand, they aim at greater harmonisation, improving standards of international protection and improving the quality and efficiency of asylum procedures. on the other hand, they will lead to an unnecessary burden on the administration, simplified judicial procedures will multiply the likelihood of hasty judicial decisions, different groups of people are unreasonably treated differently and the sovereignty of the member states is severely restricted. in view of the pros and cons of the proposals, neither of which is visibly supported by more convincing arguments, i vote 'abstain'.
in writing. − statistical data are important for developing more effective tourism policies as well as for making business decisions. i support the text because, on the one hand, the changes in the tourism industry in recent years have made it necessary to update the legal framework for european statistics on tourism. once adopted, the proposal will improve the timeliness, comparability and completeness of the statistical data transmitted, as well as the efficiency of data processing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because the lack of agreement on fisheries conservation could have undesirable consequences. the proposal to extend the validity of the 2009 council regulation laying down transitional technical measures by 18 months, i.e. until 31 december 2012, will allow the commission to prepare a new package of technical measures to be part of the reform of the common fisheries policy. i think the amendments are acceptable because the common fisheries policy must on the one hand protect fisheries resources, but on the other hand also be favourable to ordinary citizens, in this case the small fishermen of ireland. that is why i believe that there should be a balance between catch limits, technical measures and the needs of fishermen.
in writing. − i share the rapporteur's view that not all types of investment require the same high level of protection and that, for example, short-term speculative investments do not deserve the same level of protection as long-term investments. the scope of future europe agreements should therefore be limited to foreign direct investment (fdi). for this reason, i supported this report, which falls within the exclusive competence of the ep.
in writing. - i did not support this report for a number of reasons. many of the proposals for direct funding and the status of european political parties are in conflict with national parties. members of the european parliament are elected by the different countries through national parties and, once elected, they can form european groups, thanks to their national parties, but following their national party interest. this report does not support that idea.
in writing. − i share the view that the completion of the single market is a necessary condition for the european union to reach its full potential in terms of competitiveness, smart, inclusive and sustainable growth, and the creation of more and better jobs. the single market strategy should strengthen social support and workers' rights and ensure fair working conditions for all citizens. i voted in favour of the legislative initiative and i believe that the european commission should take measures to increase the mobility of citizens. i welcome the idea of creating a green paper on the recognition of professional qualifications and the creation of a 'mobility index' to measure this indicator within the eu.
in writing. the fukushima tragedy obliges us to learn from it and to take immediate action, which european citizens expect. however, these measures should be in the right direction. the main problem we have to deal with is ensuring the security of european citizens. in the coming months, the european parliament will be dealing with a number of legislative texts that will define the future of energy, and in particular nuclear energy, in europe. our priority today is security. we should not compare the european power plants with the 40-year-old fukushima nuclear plant, where the private owner refused to comply with the safety regulations. the eu must adopt as soon as possible minimum security standards that are mandatory for all power stations. these standards should be developed and adopted before the endurance tests of power plants. while leading the government, the bulgarian socialist party has repeatedly insisted on the development of such standards, but so far this has never happened. both the standards and the criteria for the endurance tests have to be developed by the experts of the nuclear regulators group. i support the development of new technologies, and in particular renewable energy. the commission notes that the measures in question are not imputable to the state, but to the state.
mr president, the progress of the least developed countries is a reflection of our own development policies and those of the international community. the increase in the number of countries classified as least developed is a clear indication that the time has come to review our policies, instruments and means. the poorest are vulnerable to wars, crises and widespread poverty, which is why it is important to continue efforts for peace and stability, democracy and human rights. three things must be considered. first, we will have to look at the internal factors such as corruption, the lack of democratic safeguards or the lack of property rights that keep these countries underdeveloped. secondly, on the economic side, we must enrich our approach by giving greater support to farmers, smes and the proper use of state resources in order to develop new instruments. finally, we need to make our aid instruments more targeted and consistent with the mdgs. it is by synchronising global development policies with the real needs of countries and the increased role of the private sector and civil society that we will best meet the challenges of the next decade.
the president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, members of the house. tomorrow you will adopt a resolution on the 2010 report on the achievements of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. as you know, in its conclusions of 14 december 2010, the council reaffirmed its unanimous commitment to the european union perspective of the western balkan countries. the ultimate goal of this perspective is the country's membership of the european union. i congratulate you on the balanced conclusions of the draft resolution. the text reflects the situation objectively and contains valuable recommendations. it is regrettable that, despite the results and progress achieved, the fyrom has not yet been able to open accession negotiations. i think it's a waste. not just for the candidate, but for the union. i am pleased that the main message of the european parliament's draft resolution coincides with one of the presidency's key principles. individual performance must always be recognised by the union. as regards specific cases, we welcome the country's significant progress in key reform areas such as the functioning of the police or the judiciary. the implementation of the ohrid framework agreement remains a fundamental element of democracy and the rule of law in the country. in this respect, we can also report some progress, such as the implementation of the law on languages. however, it is essential that the country shows further results as soon as possible in areas such as dialogue between political actors, reform of the judiciary and public administration, the fight against corruption, freedom of expression and improvement of the business environment. the resolution you are about to adopt will deal in detail with the areas concerned and the skopje government's plans must continue to give priority to them. the council noted that the commission had reiterated its recommendation that accession negotiations should be opened with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. in its conclusions of december 2010, the council stated that it was ready to return to this issue during the hungarian presidency, but unfortunately, in the absence of any relevant new developments, this step has not yet been initiated by the presidency. i must emphasise at this point that good neighbourly relations remain of paramount importance. it must be accepted that progress in general and steps towards european integration in particular can only be successful if there is a political commitment at all levels of society. however, political actors in a democratic society have a specific and primary responsibility, for example, to find solutions to differences of opinion through democratic means, i.e. dialogue and compromise. we therefore call on the political actors of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to return to dialogue not only to accelerate the pace of reform processes, but also to demonstrate the maturity of the country's democratic institutions. the prospect of early elections requires special attention. the stability of the current coalition is remarkable, despite the difficulties. it would be a cause for concern if the next election were to produce a fractured political palette. in order to reduce the risk of this happening, it would be important to call early elections on the basis of a broad consensus in parliament. while i would like to encourage the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, its political leadership and institutions to step up their efforts and to respond to the expectations of citizens, i would also encourage the commission and the european parliament to continue to pay due attention to the candidate country and the region. there is no more effective incentive for ensuring stability and prosperity in the balkans than promoting the european perspective and the accession process. i hope that under the hungarian presidency there will be a tangible signal to the balkans that the enlargement process is alive and well, and that this could be the decisive step towards croatian accession, the conclusion of the accession negotiations. i am convinced that this would act as a magnet for all the countries of the balkans, including the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to discuss the state of play of the accession process with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i also thank mr vigenin for taking this report forward, building on mr thaler’s thorough preparation. the report is comprehensive, accurate and sets out the challenges ahead. over the last 20 years the country has made significant progress for two reasons. firstly, great efforts had to be made to overcome difficult problems and even conflicts. secondly, the european perspective has been a great incentive for progress. the challenge today is to use the very same formula – great efforts combined with a european incentive – to take the country forward. i am grateful for the support of the european parliament for the commission’s recommendation to start accession negotiations. we believe the country is ready to engage in a higher level of integration with europe. in fact the accession negotiations are our most powerful instrument to support reforms. yet i must share with you my preoccupation with recent developments. our recommendation confirmed that the country has sufficiently met the political criteria but underlined that further efforts are needed in most areas. developments so far this year have not shown the expected progress. the commission has been consistently asking for political dialogue, judiciary and public administration reform, fight against corruption, freedom of expression and implementation of the ohrid framework agreement. i had a very good meeting with prime minister gruevski in brussels on 24 march. we agreed to step up our efforts to bring the eu agenda back to top priority for the country. the commission will support and monitor the process, including through a regular accession dialogue between the commission and the government. concerning elections, we expect that the leaders will spare no efforts to ensure that elections will be fully transparent and in line with the best international standards. the timing is totally up to them. i continue stressing that freedom of expression is fundamental and that journalists must be able to express their views freely. the commission expects due process and non-selective application of the law. the fight against corruption also needs to be pursued vigorously. i fully agree with the emphasis placed on this subject in the european parliament’s report and i welcome your suggestions regarding strengthened monitoring in this field. for me, the 10th anniversary of the ohrid framework agreement this summer is an opportunity to take stock of implementation, to bring all the communities of the country together and to renew the commitment to address the ongoing challenges. lastly, on the post-visa liberalisation monitoring, we need a review of the measures taken to prevent abuses of the visa regime. countries benefiting from visa-free access to the european union need to take all necessary measures to limit unfounded asylum applications. 2011 is an important year for the whole region. president barroso and i will be visiting the region together, starting tomorrow and concluding in ohrid on saturday. we will be showing our commitment to the countries of the region and at the same time underlining that they should spare no effort in creating a positive momentum for enlargement. it is important that skopje plays an active part. it is therefore essential that the name issue is solved. both parties have repeated their commitment to finding a solution. i would have hoped that this would be more substantially reflected in the recent round of negotiations in new york. i have consistently raised the matter, encouraging both parties to remain fully engaged. and i know that the two prime ministers in their direct contacts have already invested considerable efforts in reaching a mutually acceptable agreement. i hope that they are able to capitalise on these efforts this year. a solution would be a major breakthrough in turning 2011 into a promising year for enlargement. i also thank you for your comments and requests related to the ipa programme. ipa is the concrete demonstration that we do not only assess and criticise countries, but we in fact support them very practically in their efforts. therefore i fully agree with you that this instrument must be used as efficiently and effectively as possible. i take note of your requests for further funding in the areas of unemployment, transport and the environment, to add to our ongoing efforts. for most ipa components, the choice of projects is the responsibility of the national authorities. this is very important for the country’s ownership. furthermore for the period 2011-2013, we are introducing, together with the authorities of the country, a sector-based approach. it means we will focus on sectors where the help is most needed, and plan for several years ahead. in this context, your suggestions are very valuable input for our ongoing programming dialogue. in conclusion, i believe the commission and parliament are very much in agreement on the achievements of the country, and the remaining challenges. i very much hope that the name issue will indeed be resolved in the near future, and before the judgment of the international court of justice, which is awaited in the autumn. we are all keenly aware that the european union has its role to play in providing the right incentives. we are at a critical juncture with the country. it can either take the path towards europe, to our mutual benefit, or stand by as the rest of the region moves forward. this is a time for all of us to fulfil our responsibilities and our commitments.
on behalf of the s&d group. the honourable member president, honourable members of the commission and council, colleagues, i have taken the responsibility to present the european parliament's resolution on the progress of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in 2010. i would like to stress that the previous rapporteur, zoran thaler, has done an excellent job. we have before us an objective report which i expect to receive broad support in the vote tomorrow. the year 2011 could provide a new impetus to the enlargement process for the entire western balkans region. croatia is about to finalise its accession negotiations. serbia is on track to receive a positive opinion from the european commission to start such negotiations. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the accession of the republic of macedonia to the european union is fully respected. the key issue is the resolution of the name dispute with greece. early elections are a chance for the new government to be formed to use the trust of the electorate to finally resolve this issue. it should be clear that the cost of delay is increasingly high for macedonian citizens and we hope the country's leaders will show courage and foresight. the european commission can also be called upon to mediate in order to finally open up the path of burm to membership of the european union. we hope that the council will take account of the european parliament's position and that the accession negotiations will start as soon as possible. but the country must not just wait, but in the meantime implement all the necessary reforms. this will allow the negotiations to be concluded much more quickly in the future. the building of a stable political system needs to continue and an important element is the improvement of electoral legislation. more and more effective anti-corruption measures and legislation, judicial and public administration reforms are needed. we expect serious efforts to guarantee freedom and independence of the media. the concern is inter-ethnic relations. the tenth anniversary of the ohrid agreement is an occasion to review what has been achieved and to set further goals with the participation of all ethnic groups. i hope that european integration and the necessary reforms in the country will be key messages of all the main political forces and that a broad consensus will be reached around them after the elections. finally, i would like to say that the european parliament will shortly appoint a permanent rapporteur, to whom we expect to show the necessary respect and confidence. (the president agreed to answer a question by raising a 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
i don't know what part of what i said you didn't understand and what part of it contradicts the report itself and what the foreign affairs committee has been rallying around. i think it is not necessary to give the authorities in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia the opportunity to use statements like yours to try to shift the blame for the ineffective reforms and unrealized goals onto the european commission, the european parliament. i think the report encourages reform, but it also calls for more, which is normal when we see that there are real problems in a country that will eventually be a member of the european union.
mr president, i would agree somewhat with what commissioner füle said that we do see some progress in macedonia's development towards its progress towards the european union. but there are still many unanswered questions. for example, the case of the bulgarian ngo radko for its registration has been pending for years before the supreme court of the republic of macedonia and for this registration and the refusal, more precisely for it, radko won a case here in the building of the european court of human rights, very close to our parliament, for which macedonia was condemned. people with bulgarian identity, which i will call "bulgarian ethnic group" for ease, although this is not a precise definition, are still the only ethnic group in macedonia that does not have a registered political party. and this is due to the ongoing 20 years of repression against every single person who expressed bulgarian self-consciousness, which led to the fact that these people do not have the desire to unite in a political party as do all other ethnic groups in macedonia. these issues are crucial for me to resolve because they are part of the political criteria that i think macedonia (and i will not agree with the commissioner here) has not met. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union.
mr. president, i would like to the chairman, mr. commissioner, madam minister, i would also like to thank mr viggen for the good presentation of the report. the political will of the european union is the rapid and successful european integration of all the western balkan countries and their full membership of the european family. the historical problems, especially in the balkans, can only be overcome through european integration. so the boundaries in this part of europe can go from being dividing to being uniting, as is the case here between france and germany. the resolution acknowledges and welcomes the progress made by this country, especially in the economic field, but also stresses that the country has to complete the remaining part of the path towards full membership. the resolution also identifies problem areas. these are political and inter-ethnic relations, good neighbourly relations, the state of media freedom and the rights of all citizens, regardless of claimed ethnic origin. especially those who openly declare their bulgarian ethnic origin are sometimes subject to discrimination. the resolution also stresses the importance of preserving the cultural and historical heritage, which is an important european asset. it is good that this resolution explicitly mentions the situation with the bulgarian cultural and ethnic monuments in macedonia. trust is built by respecting historical facts, not by provocative and unnecessary manipulation and distortion of the truth. i wish the citizens of macedonia from the bottom of my heart that they will quickly overcome the problems of the past so that we can welcome them as full citizens of the european union. but overcoming it comes through a political will to break with the people who served in the former yugoslav communist secret services, infiltrating and provoking the political and economic, media and social life of macedonia, as of course in other countries of eastern europe.
mr president, côte d'ivoire is experiencing a real escalation of violence. the political conflict between two people has unfortunately turned into a humanitarian crisis. it is clear that the basic democratic principle of respect for the results of elections must be guaranteed. gbagbo's departure is therefore a matter of course. but what are we planning next? tensions between the two sides are likely to escalate. and if we get into a civil war, what are we planning? three things we must strive for. first, the maintenance of peace and stability, because the urgent need is to enable the ivorian people to live normally, to be able to feed themselves, to receive medical care, to work, to go to school. an independent commission of inquiry into the violence committed since the beginning of the conflict should be set up. secondly, unoci and the african union must continue to play their part. but we must also think about the establishment of a dialogue mechanism in which no party, either within the country or within the international community, would be excluded. finally, i would remind you that the european union sent an election observation mission. it is the role of the union to insist that the recommendations made be taken into account and integrated into the process of overcoming the crisis.
madam president, developments in the southern neighbourhood have provoked a lot of criticism of the eu neighbourhood policy as pursued so far. we should be critical, of course, but we should also be fair. the neighbourhood policy has contributed a lot to the development of relations with those countries – and not only with those countries but also with their societies, which will be one of the main issues now to be added to the review of neighbourhood policy. these developments to some extent follow the engagement of the european union with those countries. so in that respect we need to review this policy, and to adapt it, but we should not simply criticise what has been done so far. as such, the ep reports are an important contribution to the enp review and i hope they will be taken into consideration by the commission. i would like to warn against the attempts to oppose east and south, not only as regards refocusing attention, but also, maybe, as regards reallocating funds and resources. we have to be very careful on this and to take into account that on the one hand, of course, the challenge is to assist democratic processes in egypt and tunisia, and to support democratisation in the south, but it is also to preserve the peace in the southern caucuses, for example, and to contribute to the peaceful solution of frozen conflicts and to consolidate democracies.
madam president, the eu eastern neighbourhood could prove to be the best test for the eu foreign policy. the union needs to abide by its own legal framework and particularly the eu security strategy, which underlines ‘the need to have a wealth of well-governed countries on its border’. it should also implement this in its own comprehensive strategy in order to bring about positive change. however, the most serious impediment for the formalisation of the enp to the east remains the unresolved conflicts in transnistria and the south caucasus, which are the root cause of the region’s instability and political and economic problems. it is enough to mention today’s blast in transnistria, which severely damaged the gas pipeline. there is an urgent need for the eu to support conflict settlement efforts including through direct mediation, confidence-building and humanitarian assistance to the millions of idps and refugees. that is why the eu should ensure that its considerable financial and technical support in the region is accompanied by a reinforced political presence and a well-defined conditionality.
member of the commission. − madam president, we must reject in the strongest possible terms any targeting of violence against women, from intimidation to sexual assault. these are abhorrent crimes, often perpetrated against the most vulnerable and defenceless people. unfortunately, it is a fact that many countries across the world, not only in north africa and in the middle east, still lack a proper legal framework to protect women and girls from violence. there is nothing to encourage the reporting of such attacks. much more must be done to deter perpetrators and to hold them accountable for their actions. women continue to endure discriminatory laws and deeply entrenched cultural inequality. in the case of egypt, for example, the national committee formed to write the new constitution is composed only of men, and even the new cabinet has only one female minister. this is not sustainable, as was made clear by the courage shown by tunisian and egyptian women during the recent events in their countries. if half the population is excluded from political and institutional reform, it can hardly succeed. against this backdrop, we strongly condemn the increasing reports of severe human rights violations including rape, sexual assault and severe humiliation of women activists. the european union is committed to strengthening the role of women in political, civil, social, economic and cultural spheres, as well as to fighting against discrimination and impunity. this is why one of the eu’s eight human rights guidelines explicitly aims to ‘promote gender equality and combat discrimination against women’. and the barcelona declaration of 1995, which established the euro-mediterranean partnership, specifically reinforces this commitment for the euromed region. gender equality is one of the five-year work plan priorities agreed by the heads of state at the barcelona summit in 2005, held to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the euro-mediterranean partnership. in view of these commitments, the euro-mediterranean ministerial conference on strengthening the role of women in society, held in november 2006 in istanbul, started an innovative and pioneering process. ministers (including those from algeria, jordan, lebanon, morocco, occupied palestinian territory, syria and tunisia) agreed to embrace a holistic approach based on the following interlinked priorities: first, women’s political and civil rights; second, women’s social and economic rights and sustainable development; and finally, women’s rights in the cultural sphere and the role of communications and the mass media. since the 2006 conference, work has been ongoing on implementation of a common framework of action, in particular through the pursuit of country priorities, with a follow-up mechanism and reports published by the european commission. the partners in the union for the mediterranean reaffirmed their commitments to this at the second ministerial conference in marrakesh in november 2009. civil society was fully involved in the discussions. increasing awareness and visibility of the process was one of the big challenges agreed by almost all participants in the process. beyond this regional framework, the european union’s bilateral dialogue, including through sub-committees dealing with gender issues, is an important method for addressing these pressing concerns. let me conclude, madam president, by saying that the european union will not tolerate violence against women in any form and we will use every avenue we can to prevent it.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the alde group proposed and initiated this debate, as we want to express our concern tonight at the situation of women in north africa and the middle east in the face of the current political change and turmoil. during the past few weeks we have witnessed severe violations of human rights in libya and egypt, particularly affecting women. i am not going to enter into the details of all these cases, but let me mention just two symbolic and worrying situations that should be condemned immediately. iman al-obeidi, a libyan woman, has told the international press that she was gang-raped and subsequently detained by pro-gaddafi soldiers and interrogated for 72 hours before being released. in egypt, as my colleagues have mentioned, several female protestors have claimed they were subjected to so-called virginity tests – and also raped by soldiers – and some of them are now being tried for ‘failing’ such tests. these cases have provided additional evidence that rape is still used as a weapon in times of conflict in order to terrorise and humiliate the civilian population. it would be unacceptable not to raise our voices against these terrible atrocities being committed against women. we call on the commission and the council strongly to oppose and condemn the use of sexual assault, intimidation and any other form of abuse of women taking place in the context of the current events in north africa and the middle east. we also need to use all our available policy instruments in order to guarantee that, after the transition of these societies, women’s rights will be guaranteed and upheld. yesterday we adopted our report on an eu policy framework to fight violence against women, and it would be unacceptable to have double standards when it comes to our policy action outside the union. in this regard the promotion of women’s rights must be fully integrated into the european neighbourhood policy, its programmes and projects and, at the same time, specific policies for women’s rights and empowerment must be put in place.
mr president, i would first like to say that it is rare in this parliament to see such a short, precise and clear report on a given subject. the role of the european investment bank in the development of europe is undoubtedly fundamental and very important. but i would like to make a few remarks on the report and on what was said here in the chamber. firstly, i support the policy of the european investment bank for the development of small and mediumsized enterprises. i think this point is much more important for europe than climate change and the bank should focus its efforts on that rather than on the development of green technologies. although it will also be developed if small and medium-sized enterprises are supported. i also agree internally with the opinion of the committee on budgetary control on the possible supervision by the european banking authority, which is the new body for such activities. finally, the figures mr morganti has just given are very worrying and i also agree with the view expressed that there should be parliamentary control, especially on foreign investment, because it is unacceptable that foreign countries receive more of european money than european countries themselves do.
madam president, we should not enter into this propaganda exercise. this report has been discussed. (applause)there was broad agreement between all political groups on this report. it was adopted by the committee on foreign affairs by an overwhelming majority. we had a good debate yesterday, and i would ask you to continue with the vote now.
mr president, we have set out a number of conditions and requirements for sustainable and responsible fishing in the new common fisheries policy. at the same time, fishermen are dependent on the vagaries of time, on unfair competition. in recent years, they have also faced another huge problem - the steadily rising price of oil. all of these factors made it almost impossible to practice this profession. the de minimis principle is intended to apply until 2013. it is time for it to be reconsidered if we are to think seriously about the prospects for the sector. fuel prices have tripled and the question naturally arose of whether community legislation is sufficient and meets the economic reality and the needs of european fishermen. in this context, i expect the commission to review the current ceiling of eur 30 000 and to increase it substantially. but there's another question: the commission must also move beyond its purely control functions over the application of state aid and actively encourage member states to benefit from it. why is it important? some countries in the european union prefer to keep this possibility to themselves, because it means an additional burden on national budgets. instead, when they feel the pressure from the fishing industry, they justify themselves with brussels. only a cursory survey shows that fishermen in bulgaria do not even know that such a possibility and such a regulation exist. the sector organisations have made a number of requests for state aid to support the sector, but they know nothing about the de minimis regulation. the concern of the states is to provide this opportunity now, when the blow of high oil prices must be mitigated, which poses a question not only of high prices but of the survival of the sector in general. on the other hand, there is the problem of cumbersome procedures for the absorption of european funds, including under the de minimis regulation. so to the questions put by my colleagues, and i thank mr cadec for raising this debate today, i would like to add: how will the european commission encourage the member states to use the possibilities of the de minimis regulation? what measures does the commission intend to take to achieve a balance between control of the use of the means and the availability of these means to european fishermen?
author. − madam president, i co-signed this initiative to table an oral question and a resolution in advance of the 20th japan-eu summit because i believe that the european parliament, which will be asked to give its consent to any potential free trade agreement with japan, should have its say at the earliest possible stage. i believe that this opportunity should be used by parliament to strongly support an fta with japan for the following reasons. the european union and japan are industrial giants that share democratic values and together represent 38.5% of the world’s gross domestic product. we share similar challenges: the rise of china, the global financial crisis, decreasing demographics and the need to access raw materials and energy sources and to achieve price stability. therefore i see great potential in further developing trade relations with japan, our sixth-largest trading partner. the economic benefits are clear. the copenhagen economics report concluded that the bilateral elimination of tariffs and reduction of non-tariff barriers would benefit both businesses and consumers and drive economic welfare by eur 33 billion in the eu and eur 18 billion in japan. the potential launch of negotiations on an fta agreement was backed by the council as long as japan was willing to tackle non-tariff barriers on market access and restrictions on public procurement. i would like to reiterate that non-tariff barriers and public procurement are crucial areas for european businesses, where japan needs to make significant concessions. of course the european parliament demands that the commission be fully transparent in all negotiations and that we be provided with timely sectoral impact assessments. in addition, we will support bilateral safeguard measures, as was the case with the south korea fta, to avoid serious injury to sensitive sectors such as automotives, electronics, aviation and machinery. in conclusion, i am firmly convinced that it is high time that parliament showed its support for a future fta between the eu and japan building on the establishment of a high-level group, especially in the wake of the march 2011 disaster.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has allocated eur 976 billion for the period 2007-13. a large part of this is allocated to programmes for which grants must be requested from the european commission. a bulgarian study showed that for most approved projects, the beneficiaries are three to four european countries, with very little participation from the others. unfortunately, the commission does not have a summary of these facts and their causes, nor the added value of these programmes, and i fear that this will not be taken into account in the next financial framework. the commission has undertaken to apply the principles of transparency and equal treatment in these programmes. it also means greater promotion of opportunities and greater equality in access to information. i am convinced that the commission should take steps to promote programmes among interested europeans, taking into account the needs of beneficiaries from newly acceding countries.
madam president, for more than 10 days, romanian border services have illegally detained a bulgarian fishing vessel and its captain, hristo spasov, 20 miles east of the romanian black sea coast, an area outside the country's territorial sea. equal access to the waters and resources of the european union is one of the fundamental principles of the common fisheries policy. this principle is confirmed by regulation no 2371/2002. since the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union, the maritime areas of both countries are part of the common european waters and the regulations are directly applicable in national legislation. the bulgarian authorities have sent their romanian counterparts all the necessary documents certifying that the vessel is registered in the european union and has all the permits to fish in the black sea. however, there is no development of the situation on the romanian side. the only answer is that only romanian law and the country's constitution apply. we are deeply concerned that equal access to european union waters continues to be a major problem for professional fishermen. we call on our fellow meps from romania and the commission as guardian of the treaties to intervene as mediators to resolve the case.
, in writing. improving the quality of the implementation of expenditure and the control of legal spending and compliance is not a one-off action but a continuous process, which is our primary responsibility to european citizens. people don't understand why in the middle of 2011 we're still dealing with the 2009 budget. so, based on preliminary discussions, by organising an interinstitutional discussion, we can shorten the procedure without sacrificing quality. the control of the expenditure of european funds would be considerably improved if there were specific data and methods for evaluating the management and control systems in the member states, because error rates of 0% are questionable. at least 30% of the errors could be detected and corrected by the national authorities before ec certification member states and the ec must take the necessary action to comply with the rules and take adequate measures to quickly address the identified weaknesses.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2009 increased by 25.3% compared to 2008. if this kind of growth is seen in the coming years, how will we cope with the financial crisis by spending more and more? in my view, this eur 51 million could be spent more effectively if it were invested in regional disease surveillance systems in each member state. this will not only contribute to the fight against infectious diseases, but also strengthen health systems in the member states themselves.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, what are we paying these little over 70 million euros for? for an agency where, according to the court of auditors, the delay in operational activities is due to a lack of qualified staff and the difficulty in implementing the it system? understandably, these two elements are fundamental to the proper functioning of an agency, but it makes me wonder whether the agency is even meeting its objectives. i voted against the waiver because i think that money could be spent more efficiently than in a weakly functioning agency.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, why should we fund agencies that don't follow the recommendations made by the internal audit service? in 2006, 27 recommendations were made, of which only 9 have been implemented so far. this leads me to believe that the european environment agency is not functioning properly and that its funding should be stopped.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be ignored that for three consecutive years - 2006, 2007 and 2008 - the european food safety authority has transferred a large part of its responsibilities to operational activities. even more controversial is the fact that for 2009 the court of auditors found difficulties in implementing the authority's work programme. for these reasons, i believe that this body should not be relieved of its responsibility for the implementation of the budget, because european taxpayers do not deserve their money to be spent on a body that does not cope with the tasks assigned to it.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i have a few remarks to make on the operation of the clean sky joint undertaking and therefore i do not support the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009. first, since the establishment of the company, i.e. since 2007, it has not yet signed a contract with belgium concerning the premises for official use, privileges and immunities, etc. how can a business function properly without these basic needs being met? not surprisingly, research activities pre-funded in 2008 were not fully implemented in 2009 and only 65% of the pre-funding was used. but what concerns me most is that the joint undertaking has not yet fully implemented its internal control and financial reporting systems, which threatens transparency in the spending of european taxpayers' money.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative for innovative medicines should be funded entirely by pharmaceutical companies or by its other members who have the greatest interest in the existence of this undertaking. i therefore do not support the discharge for the implementation of the budget of that undertaking for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the joint undertaking for the development of a new generation european air traffic management system (sesar) is an important initiative, but at a time of financial crisis and difficulties in many member states, i do not think it is right to spend these millions of euros in this way.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i am a defender of the privileges and immunities of bruno gollnisch and i believe that the persecution he has been subjected to is purely political in nature. his immunity must be preserved in order for him to continue to perform his duties as a member of the european parliament in full. in such cases, the plenary votes to maintain the immunity of a member (of course, when he belongs to a major political force), which makes me think that double standards are sometimes imposed in the european parliament and that this takes away the confidence of the whole institution.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i am a defender of the privileges and immunities of bruno gollnisch and i believe that the persecution he has been subjected to is purely political in nature. his immunity must be preserved in order for him to continue to perform his duties as a member of the european parliament in full. that's why i voted against the waiver.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i did not support the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009, section vi, of the european economic and social committee. it is common knowledge that the 2009 budget of that institution was the subject of an investigation by olaf. i believe that the european parliament needs more information on the case in order to be able to take a correct decision on this exemption. there are internal irregularities within this european institution, identified as serious problems in the functioning of its secretariat.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i do not support the discharge of the committee of the regions, because this institution is only an advisory body and because it represents the interests of the european regions before the european institutions, i believe that its funding should come entirely from the regions.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in times of financial crisis, the european union must concentrate its spending on dealing with the crisis. some 15% of the citizens of the european union live below the poverty line. what does the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds mean to these people? i am not against the european development funds, but i believe that the european union, in order to help other countries, must first deal with its own problems. i am sure that these 15% of the citizens of the european union expect the same.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the urgent introduction of autonomous trade preferences with regard to pakistan. the trade preferences are of great importance to pakistan because they will contribute to the sustainable development of a country that has recently suffered several natural disasters. in addition to concluding an agreement with pakistan, the european union will have to play a key role in persuading india to support the agreement in the world trade organisation.
madam president, today we must answer the question of how to safeguard and balance our fundamental values: freedom, solidarity, justice and, on the other hand, security. it has been said many times that external borders are the joint responsibility of all member states. let's not build unnecessary walls between us. and let's not let the current situation go down in the textbooks as a bad example of european integration. i welcome, of course, the increased role of frontex and the additional human and material resources for the agency, together with the strengthening of the schengen evaluation mechanism, but not the new requirements for bulgaria and romania and the impeding of their membership. mrs győri, i would ask you very much to tell us, now that bulgaria and romania have met all the technical criteria for membership, which has been assessed by the council's experts, what is the council's position on the timeframe for bulgaria and romania's accession, and is there any discussion of this in the council? if there are new rules, they should be valid for all and not serve to achieve political goals, but serve to build on the existing base to protect our borders. from a foreign policy perspective, i believe that our good neighbour policy should be linked to the fulfilment of readmission obligations for the respective governments towards their citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, while the question of pursuing our energy strategy, with or without nuclear power, is now being debated in the member states concerned, we should keep in mind that, whichever decision is taken, nuclear safety will remain a long-standing issue for several generations. we should obviously develop and enforce common standards on nuclear safety at international level since radioactive contamination knows no borders, as the chernobyl disaster revealed and as is confirmed by what is still happening in fukushima. twenty-five years after events in chernobyl, we still need further assessment and research on past and current impacts of contamination of human health and the environment. we have to think about nuclear safety, not as a protection measure but as a long-term and encompassing strategy. we should also address the issue of nuclear waste. what has remained from chernobyl is waste and this is a serious and threatening issue in the region. it is also becoming a european challenge for the future of nuclear energy. we need more research in this field and we need to guarantee the long-term safety of storage or disposal of these materials. whatever decision we take now, reversibility and retrievability are therefore required. i would welcome a clear position from the commission on this matter.
madam chair, dear mrs ashton, i have listened with great interest and pleasure to your presentation and have not heard a word with which i disagree. and yet, both in this room and among the citizens of the european union, you will find strong criticism of our ability to show a united approach and united action. the lisbon treaty created important conditions for the european union to speak with one voice on the international stage. that voice, yours, speaks clearly. but success is only possible if the other voices are silenced, or at least quieter. on the contrary, what we are seeing is a call to action, and to date we are offering the world a cacophony in which it is often difficult to hear the important message that the european union wants to send. i believe, mrs ashton, that our institution, the european parliament, is your natural ally in the battle to put the lisbon treaty into practice. make the most of us, because today we are writing the next report on the common foreign and security policy and because the extraordinary dynamics of 2011 give us a chance to put our own house in order. i fully share the view that our support for the countries of north africa, and in particular for tunisia and egypt, should be implemented in two stages. one, the long-term one, is already largely outlined. but egypt and tunisia need support now, this year, and on a scale that is far beyond what is being discussed. the arab revolutions had two components, one was the lack of freedom and democracy, and the other was the social hopelessness and hopelessness. the success of the revolutions will only be possible if both problems are solved in parallel. at a conference in tunis, organized by the party of european socialists, with representatives of parties and movements from across the region, we asked the european union for an urgent programme to support democratic processes now, immediately. the socialist and democratic group is also significantly expanding its commitment to the region, and i say this to emphasise how important it is to engage at all levels. finally, i should like to say that the euroness parliamentary assembly was set up last week. this is a clear signal to our eastern partners that they want a stronger political dialogue with the european union - let's not forget them.
the ..... (bad recording) it is clear that in some capitals of our union, they are now aware of what the treaty of lisbon is and find it difficult to accept a foreign policy initiative that does not come from them. that is why we need strong european leadership, which has the courage, if necessary, to hit the table and demand that the member states have a common position. i would also, of course, appeal to the member states not to try to renationalize our foreign policy, but to help you, mrs ashton. we need not only strong european diplomacy, but also effective civilian and military capabilities, if we are to be not only the largest but most generous donor of development aid and humanitarian aid in the world today, but also a major player in global politics. i believe that the european union's own military capabilities will also be of help to our us and nato allies, both politically and militarily, especially in our close neighbourhood. every conflict confirms that. i support the pooling and sharing of our defence resources and the integration of our security and defence policy. we need a unified security and defense strategy. but an effective european foreign policy and its own defence capabilities, without its own intelligence and intelligence gathering capability, is like a house without a roof. this issue needs to be brought back on the agenda. either the member states must exchange information more effectively with the external service and the european union, or the european union must have its own channels for information and analysis. finally, i would like to raise the question, mrs ashton, of the need to take the readmission obligations of safe countries with which we, the european union, have such agreements, more seriously.
mr president, while unrest in the middle east and north africa requires the european union to play a greater role in the mediterranean region, i would like to raise the point of the second flotilla to gaza. we all remember the outcome of the first flotilla and its consequences for talks and attempts to resume the peace process in the middle east. as you mentioned, madam vice-president/high representative, you doubt that a new initiative of this kind would end in a more positive way. i would like to ask if you can update us on actual humanitarian needs in gaza, as well as on the goods and support currently channelled through the existing crossing points from israel and egypt. did you, or do you intend to, engage with member states and with the israeli authorities to discuss the development of this initiative and maybe to propose a positive contribution by the european union that could lead to a more responsible outcome?
, in writing. a week ago, the un general assembly allowed the eu to speak with one voice in the chamber. high-level representatives will now be able to take the union's message to the highest international body. this provision is a significant step forward in implementing the lisbon treaty. but it is not enough. the eu needs a real strategy so that the powers conferred on it by the lisbon treaty can be effectively implemented. whether it is the security council, the human rights council, nato, the wto or the g20, the eu has no right to remain fearful. we must also take the lead in establishing a world parliamentarism. high-level diplomacy is necessary, but it must be done in consultation with the people. and what better way to do that than to allow citizens from all over the world to be represented at the un? there is the european parliament, but there are also regional parliaments, such as the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. today, what we need is a world parliament. mrs ashton, the european union must be ambitious. i hope that this proposal will be included in your white paper.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i support the introduction of exceptional trade measures for countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process. it is well known that trade is a driver of economic development and these trade measures will revive the economies of the western balkans. moreover, by granting the western balkan countries privileged access to the european union market, we are also promoting the faster integration of their economies into that of the european union.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that the eighth goal of the global millennium development goals is to create a global partnership for development, which includes the creation of an open, rules-based, predictable and non-discriminatory trading and financial system. to achieve this, it is of the utmost importance that developed countries are willing to open their markets to developing countries, such as india. in this way, the eu will contribute to sustainable development, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights, among other things. with the adoption of the resolution on the eu-india free trade agreement, we are taking a step forward towards the achievement of the millennium development goals.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, in supporting the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the main aspects and key decisions in the field of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), which is one of the most important policies of the european union, i express my approval of the policy pursued by the european union at international level. by adopting this annual report, we are expressing the european union's strong position and role in the field of international relations.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by mr gualtieri. this report contributes to the consolidation of the eu as a factor of stability on a global scale and is a necessary step towards building a genuine pan-european approach to foreign and defence policy. i believe that better synchronisation of the existing instruments and the achievement of consensus on the strategic objectives of the common security and defence policy, in the spirit of the lisbon treaty, are of paramount importance. by drawing on existing financial, civilian and military resources, europe can take even more decisive action in the event of natural and man-made disasters and become even more involved in preventing and managing crises, conflicts and establishing lasting peace in third countries. moreover, the european security and defence policy and the european development cooperation policy are two sides of the same coin. i strongly support the report which calls for better coordination. the organisation of regular meetings of a crisis management board to assist the eeas is essential for this. the report's proposals for a more resourceful and synchronised use of funds for eu defence programmes and the sharing of military capabilities across the eu will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of this policy.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, it is of the utmost importance to me that the european union plays a key role in international organisations. i believe that decisions taken in the field of international politics should not infringe the sovereignty of individual member states. i am also against the downplaying of the role that each individual country in the european union plays in international organisations. we have seen in the past disagreements in the foreign policies of the member states, and if the european union were to gain a seat on the un security council, such a conflict could have a very negative effect on the image of the european union. for this reason, i am 'against' both article 20 and the report as a whole.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, today europe faces a relatively new but very serious danger, the danger of falling behind, even falling out, of the global competition in science and technology. such a development would put severe strain on our prosperity, economic progress and social status. in simple terms, europe is in danger of becoming a mediocre player on the world scientific and economic stage. europe today is in dire need of innovation. i congratulate mrs merkies on her excellent report. i also admire commissioner quinn's excellent ideas. this is a guarantee of success, because the innovation union is first and foremost a strategy for the economic development of the european union. to succeed in this we need: first, better access to credit and financial support; more investment in research and development; clear rules offering long-term prospects for innovation; simplified procedures for access to european and national support programmes; a cheap and simplified european patent.
mr president, i shall stop my speech on the youth on the move report. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that the report has managed to cover absolutely all aspects of this problem and of this european policy. i shall end with three questions in particular. first of all, on paragraphs 24 and 25 of the report on children remaining in school, on increasing participation in school, i would like to raise the following question (sveshem, i also recently put a question to the commission for a written reply. i am still waiting for that answer, but i am taking this opportunity to address this problem which i have been raising for some time): in many of the countries of the last enlargement from eastern europe there is the problem that for certain minority groups it is already a practice, almost a tradition, to stop their children from school and for children to be exploited by their parents. and when measures are taken to change this process, those measures are declared discriminatory. so my question is, who exactly are we discriminating against? whether it's parents who exploit their children, or children who lose any opportunity for integration later on because they don't have education, and economic integration through work, through means, you know, is the basis of all other integration. the 27th paragraph of the report: again, this paragraph very accurately points out a real problem. recently a leading university lecturer told me that in practice, bulgarian universities are not aware that there is an erasmus programme for lecturers. further measures should be taken in this regard. finally, regarding youth unemployment, which is mentioned in paragraphs (f) and (g) of the report: this is also a substantial problem and what i see as a problem is that when a young person applies for a job, he is required to have already had some experience. and when a person has just left school or university, he cannot have such a long record of work experience. such a requirement is absurd and discriminatory and should be addressed. that's how it works in the public sector and the private sector. furthermore, what can be done with regard to the public sector specifically is to impose strict rules on the retirement of people who have reached retirement age in order to free up places for young people.
, in writing. young people are the engine of any society and its future. their education, training, qualifications and labour market integration are at the heart of achieving the europe 2020 goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i am therefore convinced that europe must continue to invest in their development and that initiatives such as erasmus, leonardo and youth on the move should be continuously developed and promoted. improving the quality of education and training and young people's access to it is an important step towards reducing unemployment and developing the european economy. unfortunately, there are still regions and social groups in europe where the conditions are limited and where a coordinated effort is needed to tackle this problem. it is also important that education and training programmes are more closely linked to business needs, to stimulate the potential and creativity of young people, so as to make them more competitive on the labour market. i support efforts to promote the mobility of young people, both during their education and in terms of their professional development. i believe this is an important condition for the development of new skills and a european identity.
, in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the good work and fruitful cooperation he has shown in this report. i want to emphasize again the great economic and cultural potential and the uniqueness of the creative industries. they are on a very delicate territory between the ordinary business and the creation of cultural products. it is encouraging that even in the current conditions, the sector is one of the most dynamic and innovative in europe. even more remarkably, it has the potential for growth and provides jobs for some 5 million people in the eu. unfortunately, my proposal to invite the european commission and the member states to discuss the possibility of setting up european and national specialised funds which would provide loans on concessional terms for these industries was almost voted down in the committee on culture. however, i am convinced that this idea of mine will mature and be accepted in the near future. i think this is extremely important for supporting and developing the cultural and creative industries because they, because of their not-so-commercial nature, need a lighter funding that banks cannot provide in the usual way for other industries today. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i support the resolution on the renewal of the protocol to the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement, because the agreement is based on the principle of surplus, which is compatible with the european strategy for sustainable fisheries. the commission notes that the financial assistance provided by the european union to the countries of the former soviet union, including the european union, is limited to the amount of eur 300000000 and that the financial assistance provided by the european union to the countries of the former soviet union is limited to eur 300000000 and eur 300000000 respectively.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone that economic growth is closely linked to technological progress, which in turn is born of the drive for innovation of people. but that aspiration, that potential, is limited by financial, bureaucratic and other kinds of obstacles. i fully support the report on the innovation union because i believe that it will help us to break down the barriers that hinder innovative thinking in the european union. but the most important thing for me is to avoid a two-speed europe, which can only be achieved by uniting the union's economy in a common drive for innovation.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it is true that the situation in azerbaijan is difficult, and we have reasons for concern. here i would specially mention the case of mr hajiyev. i think the authorities should understand that peaceful demonstrations are a natural part of political life in any democratic country and that the pluralism of opinions and political beliefs is a fundamental part of a democratic society. on the other hand i must say that it is rather unfortunate that we have put the urgent issues of azerbaijan and belarus one after the other – one week after azerbaijan became – and was welcomed as – a founder of the euronest parliamentary assembly together with us, the european parliament. we need engagement both with the authorities and with civil society, and we have to do more, in addition to adopting urgent measures and resolutions. the eastern partnership and the euronest assembly are a good platform for such an engagement, and i feel that there is a new wind coming from azerbaijan, a renewed wish for political dialogue. the pcc which is going in june to azerbaijan should use this opportunity to raise the human rights issue but also to establish a more consistent dialogue with the country.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the experts from the commission and the rapporteur, mr audy, for their work. this mid-term retrospection is crucial. the eu has a lack of reactivity, which has prevented it from achieving the lisbon strategy targets. nevertheless, in terms of research and innovation, there are a few points where the eu still has the leadership and can be proud. the eu faces many challenges that are not necessarily faced by its competitors, yet it manages to stay in the competition. i am referring to the lack of natural presence of energy sources on european soil, which is definitely an obstacle to development and innovation. i am also referring to the ageing of the european population, which is another challenge which characterises the eu. but in spite of this, the eu has the most ambitious and the most binding regulations in terms of environmental protection. it also has the highest social standards and respects workers at work. i think we can be proud of this fact. we live on a continent where certain values are still a core concern and are not too greatly affected by globalisation. in my opinion you could not become the most sustainable knowledge-based economy in the world without having respect for the values which characterise european society. i believe this will pay dividends in the future.
in writing. the seventh framework programme for research, technological development and demonstration activities is an important tool for achieving the objectives of the 2020 strategy. europe's technological innovation leadership and the future competitiveness of the union are also highly dependent on research and in this regard a better targeting of the programme's support, a stronger link with business needs and better coordination with the other community financial instruments and the structural funds are needed. access to information on the potential opportunities offered by the programme to the widest possible range of stakeholders and the simplification of the application procedures, which are currently too complex, are also important factors for the success of the programme. i would also like to stress the need to disseminate widely the results of successful projects so that more businesses can access and, if possible, benefit from them. science does not exist for itself, it should bring benefits to the economy and society, and links between individual programmes need to be strengthened in order to ensure consistency in the implementation of scientific and demonstration projects, market testing projects and market multiplication. this can lead to greater efficiency and european added value from fp7 funding.
on behalf of the alde group. madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on international trade clearly expresses support for the ongoing negotiations with canada on the conclusion of a comprehensive economic and trade agreement. canada is one of our oldest and closest trade and economic partners, currently the eleventh largest, and the potential benefits of bilateral trade liberalisation are also clear from the study by the commission and the government of canada of october 2008. the private sector in the european union and canada has also expressed strong support for such a comprehensive agreement, although a number of challenges remain, given the high ambitions declared during the negotiations. i think we should first require an impact assessment to shed light on the advantages and disadvantages of such an agreement. secondly, how realistic are the commission's expectations that the negotiations can be concluded by the end of 2011? and can the commission guarantee that the final agreement will include a chapter on sustainable development in line with parliament's requirements? and will this chapter cover labour standards, obligations related to the multilateral environmental agreement, and an effective mechanism for their implementation? is there already a plan in place for the commission to address market access issues? and can the existing differences in economic structures and regulatory systems be overcome in the near future? does the commission intend to accept the application of the principle of reciprocity within the framework of the available legal remedies for the settlement of commercial disputes? finally, does the commission consider that the application of the so-called 'negative list' approach to the liberalisation of services could also set a precedent in other future negotiations? these are questions that naturally require answers, and i expect to receive such answers.
the economic crisis and the difficulties experienced by all member states, albeit to varying degrees, have given impetus to nationalist and populist formations which not only seek more public trust but also constantly test the limits of european citizens' tolerance, openly working against deepening european integration. a recent example from bulgaria was the events of may 20, when representatives of the nationalist ataka party clashed with muslims praying in front of the only mosque in sofia. these clashes were accompanied by the use of force, arson and ended with several injuries, including policemen. since there are video recordings of the clashes, the test for the investigating authorities and the judiciary in bulgaria will be how much the instigators and participants in this incident will be punished fairly. i would like to state very clearly in this chamber that inciting ethnic and religious intolerance is an act that is in sharp contradiction with both european values and fundamental human rights and with the traditions of bulgarian society. we must all resolutely oppose any attempt to do this in europe and clearly distinguish ourselves from the political forces behind such actions.
mr president, the german and european authorities are still trying to identify the source of the e coli outbreak. today we still have no concrete evidence about the reason for this spread and all scenarios should be considered, including potential negligence or unintentional entry of the bacteria into the food chain. how the bacteria were actually created is a different case; research and findings are needed urgently. however, i would also like to make a special point about the way current events have been communicated to the general public by german and european authorities, with the serious consequences we know for the fruit and vegetable sector, not only in spain but in all our union. this is not the first time that we have had a problem relating to food safety in germany. i propose that the commission should help the german authorities to enhance the traceability and control of the german procedures, and similar measures should be taken concerning the procedures in other member states. transparency is needed to maintain consumer confidence. all information should be available but this information should not be communicated in a way that means raising multiple alarms and triggering consumers’ fears when evidence has not yet been found. let me also point out the responsibility of the media.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i supported the zahradil report because i believe that council regulation (ec) no 1541/98 on proof of origin for certain textile products has served its purpose. the 1998 council regulation introduced instruments to control imports of textile products, which enabled the implementation of the wto agreement. with the expiry of the wto agreement in 2005 and the special safeguard measures in 2008, the council regulation has fulfilled its purpose and the import restrictive measures applied by it can be managed by other instruments.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i support the report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of croatia on the participation of the republic of croatia in the work of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, as the number of deaths for all drugs other than heroin is down compared to the previous year and there is overall progress in the fight against drug use. the republic of croatia will be able to receive information on best practices in order to gain an understanding of the nature of its drug problems and to better respond to these problems.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i support the report on the draft council regulation extending the scope of this regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the specialised crossborder transport of euro cash by road between member states in the euro area, as the scope of the proposal for a regulation on the crossborder transport of euro cash by road between member states in the euro area should include the territory of the member states which are about to adopt the euro, as the need for transporting euro cash usually increases during the preparation of the transition.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i support the report on the transport applications of global navigation satellite systems eu policy in the short and medium term, as the market for navigation systems is huge. the proposal will avoid duplication at member state level and ensure overall progress in the diversity of eu policy areas in this sector. overall, the european navigation system (ten times more accurate than gps) will make a significant contribution to road safety and environmental objectives and will facilitate road traffic through the possibility of charging tolls.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, the six-year transition period of the sudanese comprehensive peace agreement will come to an end in about a month’s time. this is a historic moment for sudan, and indeed for the whole african continent. the people of southern sudan have waited a long time for this moment, when their country’s independence will be declared on 9 july. the european union will be represented at the independence day ceremony by the high representative and vice-president of the commission. following a credible referendum at the beginning of this year, we commended sudanese parties on the remarkable job they did in organising the referendum. we welcomed that president bashir had publicly said that north sudan would be the first to recognise an independent south sudan. but the positive momentum of the immediate post-referendum period has vanished. there are worrying tendencies towards increased tensions and conflict. the recent violent clashes in and around abyei could well lead to another military confrontation between north and south sudan. we discussed sudan in the foreign affairs council, both in january and in may, and will revert to it at the 20 june foreign affairs council. at the council, the high representative intends to present a comprehensive eu strategic approach for sudan, mainly focusing on an independent south sudan, but also including elements for constructive engagement with north sudan, including the transitional areas, darfur and the east. in fact, we will be witnessing the birth of not one new state but two. the comprehensive approach will be a political strategy document, setting out all the key strands of our policy towards sudan. the eu’s main objectives are to support peace between the two states and democratisation and prosperity within both of them. we want to see two viable states coexisting as good neighbours sharing an open border, allowing for cross-border exchanges of people, goods, capital and ideas. south sudan will need all our attention in terms of stabilisation, state-, institution- and capacity-building and long-term development. our utmost concern would be to avoid state failure. as part of a possible response strategy we will be looking at a number of important elements: stepping up the eu presence in juba by establishing an eu delegation; initiating comprehensive political dialogue; stabilising south sudan and the joint border through specific measures and instruments – including the common security and defence policy and the instrument for stability – and increasing development assistance. with regard to the latter, the eu has just made additional funds totalling eur 200 million available for south sudan, making our envelope today roughly eur 300 million. we are working together with the member states in a joint eu programming exercise to maximise the impact on the ground. at the same time, we will continue humanitarian assistance and we will work to ensure that trade is part of the comprehensive approach. north sudan, on the other hand, will suffer some losses. we need to support reform-minded elements in the north, promote an inclusive political dialogue and enhance our efforts to promote human rights. we are trying to step up our political dialogue with the government in khartoum. my recent visit was intended to signal eu re-engagement following khartoum’s positive response to the outcome of the referendum. we are, however, extremely concerned about the recent violence and, as i said, the military occupation of the city of abyei, which constitutes a clear violation of the comprehensive peace agreement (cpa). we urge the parties to abstain from any further provocation and to negotiate the conditions for the long-term peaceful co-existence of local communities living in and around abyei. we also continue to have concerns about the detention of human rights defenders, journalists, opposition politicians and peaceful student protestors. one of the basic principles of the cpa was the establishment of democratic governments based on respect for diversity and basic freedoms. we want to see respect for fundamental freedoms and genuinely inclusive democratic governments in both north and south sudan. i must also mention darfur. the european union remains deeply concerned about the continued violence in darfur, leading to displacements, and the severe impact this is having on humanitarian operations. there is positive news. the three european citizens who were held hostage in darfur for several months have been released but, at the same time, we know the situation in darfur is as it has been previously. we will need to continue to support efforts to achieve a comprehensive and just peace in darfur, trying to secure a positive outcome from the peace negotiation process and create enabling conditions on the ground for a darfur-based political process. we welcome the outcome of the recent all stakeholders conference in doha and hope it will provide for such important developments towards lasting peace in darfur. lastly, i must mention justice. a lasting peace in darfur cannot be achieved without justice and reconciliation. there has to be an end to impunity. the council has repeatedly recalled the obligation of the government of sudan to cooperate fully with the international criminal court, pursuant to united nations security council resolution 1593. the darfur people deserve to achieve what they have been longing for for so long – lasting peace and justice.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what struck me most during the referendum on self-determination in south sudan was the enthusiasm, the joy, the very exultation of the people. people were happy because for once they had a voice in the chapter. for the first time, after more than 20 years of war, they felt that what they had to say would be heard. six million south sudanese, we must not disappoint them, but we must not forget the people of the north either. it is important that, in the democratic impetus given by the referendum results, the negotiations be as transparent as possible in order to ensure a solid basis for the future development of both new states, of relations between them and of the international community's relations with both. the sustainability and stability of the north and the south are paramount. it is crucial that the hitherto unresolved issues finally find a solution. i am talking here about the problem of citizenship, the sharing of debt and oil revenues, or the difficult question of undefined borders. the referenda in abyei, south kordofan and blue nile regions must also be held as part of the comprehensive peace agreement. the situation in abyei is getting worse by the day. she's very worrying. abyei must not reach a point of no return that would bring down more than six years of negotiations. the tensions escalating into open conflict risk obscuring south sudan's independence and plunging the region back into chaos. but abyei must not be forgotten what is happening in darfur. in this connection, it is necessary to take account of the conclusions of the doha conference, as you have just said, commissioner, and not to lose sight of the continuing need to ensure the delivery of humanitarian aid and the safety of personnel. transparent negotiations are the key to two viable states. similarly, the cessation of violence and good cooperation between the two states is the framework - i remind you - already outlined by the referendum. it is important that this continues so that the political will of both states and the international community can really be transformed into real development projects for the citizens of both countries. they and their well-being are at the heart of democratization, political pluralism, respect for human rights and religious, cultural and ethnic diversity in south and north sudan.
i thank mr coelho for his objective and fair assessment of the work done by bulgaria and romania. i thank both the presidency and the commission for their support of this report. the evaluation and accession process of these countries should be completed on the same criteria as when it started. as early as 2007, it was agreed that, after fulfilling the technical criteria, bulgaria and romania would join schengen in 2011. it's a fact. the council's expert assessment is unequivocal: bulgaria and romania fulfil the criteria for membership. all the reservations we have heard of lately are in the sphere of the internal political debate of some member states. instead of short-term accounts, we must mobilise to better secure our external borders, to sign and respect readmission agreements with our neighbours to the south and east and to show solidarity with those member states that are under the strongest immigration pressure in southern europe. this is particularly important at the present time of external threats and fears among our citizens of illegal immigration that could threaten security and social gains in europe. we need effective and workable plans for crises, as we had in italy and malta. we can't have a double standard. if we are to discuss and adopt new rules, they must apply to all countries - old and new. ladies and gentlemen, bulgaria and romania have done their job and are now upgrading their security systems in coordination with their schengen partners. they have made and are making great efforts to combat corruption and organised crime. at the moment, i would be more comfortable if the mediterranean border of schengen was guarded as well as bulgaria and romania guard their black sea borders. the speaker and other colleagues were there and they know what i'm talking about. in order to strengthen security in schengen, it is therefore necessary for the council to take a decision to admit bulgaria and romania to schengen as early as september this year. i call on you, colleagues, to support mr coelho's report, thereby sending a clear and strong political signal to the council that for safer external borders and for our citizens to feel more at ease, bulgaria and romania should be in schengen this year.
at this session we are finalising our assessment of bulgaria and romania's readiness to join the schengen area and we will do so successfully because mr coelho's report is a success. the expectation is that parliament's assessment will coincide with the positive position of the libe committee and that the citizens of both countries (bulgaria and romania) will hear that their institutions have done the necessary and the traffic light in front of the boulevard "schengen" is now green. the discussions were long, but the good news is that we did not allow the experiment to change the criteria for schengen membership ad hoc. the difficult days are not over, of course, and the governments of both countries must now clarify all the motives of those who are skeptical and who have before our eyes turned from former allies of bulgarian and romanian integration into authors of the wait thesis. what is the core of these motives - objective fears or prejudice, situational caution or frustration. i hope the ministers of the interior and the ministers of justice will be as frank with each other as we were during the coelho report process.
the cheval group has designated the 1,300-kilometer bulgarian border as a secure external border of the european union, which several bulgarian governments have been working on. the libe committee recommends that the council approve the accession of both countries to the schengen area and i would like to thank all my colleagues for their professional work. some member states are setting new political criteria which will delay the schengen process. accession was even defined as a gamble on the security of european citizens because of crime and corruption. obviously, the results here are not convincing, but that's why there are internal political criteria and possible resignations of bulgarian ministers. these problems are the subject of other assessments: for example, the european commission's verification and cooperation mechanism. i would also like to congratulate commissioner malmström on her proposals yesterday for a new package of measures to combat corruption. today, however, bulgaria and romania cannot be a punching bag for the unresolved problems of security in europe: the wave of refugees from africa, the approaching elections in some member states, populist rhetoric, the frustration of the financial and economic crisis. no one is interested in a two-track europe today, and that is why i call on you to support the coelho report and to call on the council to take a positive decision.
commissioner, participation in the schengen area means taking responsibility. bulgaria and romania should be accepted to take their share of responsibility, along with the other member states, for the protection of european borders. i know that in many member states today the schengen issue is sensitive and is provoking a lot of public debate. it has taken on new meaning in recent months with the influx of immigrants from north africa. the fact is that even the old and big member states have had a hard time dealing with the flow of immigrants. but these problems will not be solved by excluding bulgaria and romania. on the contrary, the right response should be to strengthen the principle of solidarity in relation to immigration policy and to involve all member states in its implementation. we must not only allow, but also require bulgaria and romania to take up their responsibilities and fulfil their obligations at the external borders of the european union. commissioner malmström has mentioned trust. that's right: the governments of both countries must be given the opportunity to rise to the challenge and prove that they can successfully protect europe's borders.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after bulgaria's accession to the european union, the entry into the schengen area is the next event, loaded with anticipation. it's an expectation of justice. since bulgaria and romania have worked hard and have done well with the technical criteria for schengen, delaying both countries would be against the rules established in the european union. the conditions in the union are the same for everyone. the same criteria as those applied to other member states should apply to our countries. the opposite is discrimination. corruption is a problem in many member states and the whole of europe needs to fight it, because four out of five european citizens consider corruption to be a major problem in their country. europe has problems with increasing immigration. we must find common solutions to these issues, but in keeping with our values and upholding our principles.
i welcome mr coelho's well-balanced and impartial report. the text reflects the findings of the rapporteur's visits to bulgaria and romania, but also the european parliament's determination to remain true to the european spirit. in particular: the readiness for schengen membership is based solely on the fulfilment of technical criteria. that's a fact. the technical readiness, as a result of the work well done by bulgaria and romania, is the positive finding that we are making today. now it's important that by a convincing majority tomorrow at the ballot box we send a double signal. first, a message to the council of ministers. by having access to information, by engaging in constructive dialogue and by respecting parliament's opinion, the council will not only show its good will to cooperate with us, but will also send a strong signal to one of the institutions that safeguards european values and transparent cooperation and partnership. a strong signal to the bulgarian and romanian citizens. to them, the european union says 'yes' to equal treatment for all member states, 'yes' to the same rules and 'yes' to equal respect for the results achieved. i'm sure the council knows how to listen to positive experiences.
first of all, i would like to thank mr coelho for his thorough report. i take the floor because i am provoked by the obvious attempts in the case of bulgaria and romania to resolve internal problems and to respond to internal fears. the abolition of visas for bulgaria and romania more than a decade ago was met with the same fears. but the european leaders of that time showed courage and foresight, and that was in a period when bulgaria and romania were not members of the european union. and they weren't wrong. we must therefore remember that today's debate is about the rules which must be the same for everyone, about the equality of opportunity between the member states enshrined in the european treaty and, last but not least, about the european solidarity which is so much proclaimed. europe today is probably different from europe 20 years ago. that shouldn't surprise anyone. but if there is a crisis in the schengen area, that is a subject for another debate. and if it leads to a change of conditions, they must change for all. because let's remember that huge groups of illegal immigrants are passing through... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr coelho, on his extremely balanced and positive report. it is the result of the common sentiment and the common vision that the majority of the colleagues here have that bulgaria and romania deserve and should be part of the schengen area. of course, you can't transfer problems from a sick head to a healthy one. corruption and crime exist in all countries of the european union. but the fight against these phenomena could only be achieved when all 27 countries joined forces. and we should not shift responsibilities, we should not shift burdens to just a few european countries. bulgaria and romania have proved that they can work for a united europe. i think they'll be worthy members of the schengen area.
in writing. we can categorically say that bulgaria itself, or more specifically bulgarian citizens, do not pose a threat - neither direct nor potential - to security, order and tranquility within schengen. our country has, albeit belatedly, fulfilled all the technical requirements related to external border control. however, there is a high degree of uncertainty that serious deficiencies may occur in the practical implementation of the control measures. this distrust is reflected in the reports of the european commission on the cooperation and verification mechanism, in the reports of europol, in the series of statements by senior representatives of different member states. with this unprecedented growth of smuggling and the shadow economy, with the presence of corruption, with the failure to tackle organized crime, we have no reason to be angry that additional obstacles are being put in front of our membership. the european parliament must take a principled position, and that is that the rules of the game cannot be changed on the move. the formal requirements state that bulgaria and romania are ready for schengen membership and the european council must take a positive decision as soon as possible. i hope that mr coelho's report will be adopted by a large majority, so that it sends a clear political signal to the member states.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the main theme of the report by mr garriga is not finance but policy. i would like to thank him and jutta haug and all my colleagues on the committee for having this understanding prevail during the work of the whole year. financial resources are the only means of achieving the objectives. policies are what is important and what should be put forward when discussing the next financial framework. we are all aware that budget cuts are currently taking place in all the member states of the european union. there will be more of them in the years to come. these cuts are related to the fight to get out of the crisis. but we must not forget that the way out of the crisis also has european dimensions: the economic development plan; the regulation of financial markets so that this crisis does not happen again; the economic governance measures currently being discussed in the european union; community measures which only make national measures more effective. it is therefore not appropriate to put national measures to combat the crisis and its consequences in conflict with european ones. participation in the european union brings added value. added value and solidarity are not empty words. it is not the same to explain to the dutch taxpayer that his contribution to the european union is being increased, and to explain to the bulgarian or polish farmer that he receives three times the subsidy but is forced to compete on the same competitive market. it's not easy to blame the greek taxpayers, who are having a very hard time right now, for the fact that just a few years ago the european financial system was making a lot of money from greece. solidarity has specific dimensions. these dimensions are also linked to the priorities that the european union has set for the years ahead. it is not possible to achieve breakthroughs in science, energy, transport, economic governance or digital technologies without common european policies. yes, we should also think about how to change the existing european budget. it has reserves and they must be sought. but i'll give you an example. these reserves cannot be found, for example in cohesion policy all policies or objectives related to energy efficiency, transport, etc. are loaded. the reduction of funds from existing programmes will not replace the need for additional new funds if we want to set new objectives for the european union, if we want european integration to really bring added value, including for taxpayers who rightly look at every bgn that is transferred to the european budget. we must therefore also consider the european budget as part of a system: both for economic management and for the management of the single currency. the increase in the minimum of 5% is not enough to solve all these problems. so we have to ask questions about european project bonds and about eurobonds and about other ways of financing.
the most important part of mr coelho's rather well-made report was contained in its end. it was there that the danger of the wave of migration that could flood europe from turkey and through turkey from the countries of the middle east and north africa was very clearly noted. if a quarter of a century ago europe was protected from such waves of immigration for two reasons: the iron curtain and the totalitarian regimes in north africa, both totalitarian systems that kept their citizens in subjection and rather than allowing them to leave than the other way around, now those barriers are gone. that is why i voted for this report. i welcome the fact that mr coelho has noted the importance of the pressure from turkey on bulgaria and greece to emigrate. but i would like to point out that it will not be enough just to keep it declarative on paper. the funds are needed, the programmes are needed, to protect the union against this wave of emigration.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, mr president, here is a very important report concerning my country, bulgaria, but also the european union as a whole. our efforts will be rewarded very soon, i am sure. our borders have long been ready to defend those of europe, but the solution so long awaited has not yet been reached, and in my opinion it is entirely political. the report also covers checks on our border with turkey, which meet the schengen requirements and demonstrate our readiness. i sincerely hope that this report will be voted on at the next european council, because the sooner this is done, the more we all gain - politically, economically and socially.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i supported the report proposed because i believe that the creation of credit rating agencies will increase competition in this sector, which is a prerequisite for increasing quality, reducing information costs and, last but not least, increasing the responsibility of the agencies concerned. this will also lead to a reduction in regulatory dependence.
in writing. - i voted against mrs wallis' report because the proposed optional instrument-regulation is actually the first step towards harmonising the member states' bond law. i consider that such harmonisation, even if minimal, is unthinkable at the present stage in view of the different regulation of obligations in the member states, for example the substantive effect which is lacking in german law. moreover, harmonisation of contract law would not remove differences in other areas affecting transnational trade within the eu - there is no conclusive evidence that it is legal differences that hamper transactions with foreign companies and consumers. contracts with an international element are currently governed by private international law - at european level by regulation 593/2008 - and an additional instrument would introduce unnecessary confusion. as regards non-international bonding relationships, i believe that each member state should continue to apply its own national legislation in accordance with its legal tradition and established practice.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the rosbach report because it clearly defines gdp as an indicator of economic activity in the market and production in the country, rather than measuring environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress. high gdp, even calculated per capita, can be misleading because gdp is not evenly distributed across the population and therefore is not a good indicator of the quality of life in a society. to address current and future challenges, new indicators need to be developed to complement and refine gdp. in this way, we will be able to measure quality of life more accurately, but these indicators will also provide a more reliable knowledge base that will contribute to better policy analysis in different areas.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the polledo report highlights the many challenges facing the european union, but above all the need to convince citizens that the european institutions and the union are serving their values and interests. i therefore support the next multiannual financial framework, which will help convince european citizens that the union has the capacity to think and act in their long-term interests and to deliver real results in ensuring sustainable growth and internal cohesion. although i do not entirely agree with some of the decisions, the report is generally favourable to bulgaria's interests and i voted in favour of the report.
mr. tavares, this is a very short question. who authorised you to speak on behalf of all 500 million european citizens? because you speak very boldly on their behalf. and i think that if a poll were to be conducted among european citizens, it would not be exactly what you said. everyone in this parliament has different visions and represents different parts of the european citizens. so who authorized you to speak for everyone?
i think parliament should apologise to the commissioner for being dragged into this debate. because from her words it became very clear to everyone here (at least to me actually, i don't know if the others became clear) that it is still necessary to adopt new legislation to implement the constitution of hungary, and then it will become clear whether someone's rights are being violated. and we are again in a situation where there is a debate here in parliament to condemn a member state for something it has not yet done. in which of your member states, ladies and gentlemen, is a person being tried for something he has not done? or accuse him of something he didn't do? not to anyone. that's what goes against democratic values. and the people who initiated this debate should apologize not only to the commissioner but to all european citizens, because it is precisely this kind of behaviour by parliament that is leading to european citizens' disinterest in its work, disappointment and low voter turnout in the european parliament elections.
i assume you're talking about the same case we were talking about earlier. my colleague was talking about it, and i wanted to ask him about it, but i didn't get the word. please, when you speak about such specific cases, state the names of the people whose rights have been violated so that we can hear them. so i'm going to ask you to name the person in question. because we have to say the names of the people whose rights have been violated.
the arguments of the critics of the european arrest warrant i have heard before from the mouths of my colleagues from the patriotic movements. but then our arguments were presented as eurosceptic, as some kind of enemies of progress, and so this order was put into effect. but tonight i heard something else terrifying from the mouth of minister győri. she said that the effectiveness of the arrest warrant justified the violation of rights. mrs. győri, i know a principle in criminal law that says, "it is better to let ten guilty people go than to keep one innocent person in prison". and in terms of disproportionate, naturally the police will use whatever you put in their hands and they will use whatever they're allowed to. to the age-old question, "who will be the guardian of the guards?" there is only one answer: "the law is the guardian of the guards". and we as legislators, the commission as initiator, the parliament and the council as co-legislators, have a duty to make sure that the law is really the watchdog of the watchdogs.
madam president, yet another eu-russia summit is taking place this week. major changes have occurred in the world since the last one. let me mention among them, firstly, the arab revolutions, a process of deep transformation which affects virtually the whole arab world. the disaster at the fukushima nuclear power plant reshaped the future of nuclear power, especially with regard to safety. climate change has brought more and more dangerous consequences. osama is dead but terrorism is alive and has targeted innocent people all over the world. the list of events is long and all of them concern both the eu and russia, two neighbouring global players with predominantly similar or complementary long-term interests. their relations can only be further developed if they are based on mutual respect, openness and transparency. any hidden agenda has the potential to distort, if not destroy, these relations. the eu and parliament have always been clear about the expectations of european citizens. now, with regard to the upcoming summit, i would like to highlight four issues. first of all, the summit should bring decisive progress on all the remaining obstacles related to russia’s accession to the wto. this important step will create better opportunities for the business communities on both sides and will further liberalise trade and economic relations globally. in this respect, the application of protectionist measures is counterproductive and we hope they will not be hidden behind overplayed health threats, which is, in our opinion, the recent case with the ban on imports of vegetables from the eu. we hope that the roadmap for visa-free travelling announced in may will accelerate further visa facilitation and will bring closer the moment when the visa regime between the eu and russia will be fully liberalised. to this end parliament expects that some politically sensitive issues will be properly addressed by the russian authorities, in particular by stopping the issuing of russian passports to the residents of south ossetia and abkhazia. i would like to see a more constructive engagement of russia in our efforts to support democratisation, economic and social progress and stability in the six countries in the eastern partnership. the last two years have clearly shown that this eu initiative is not aimed at competition, but rather at cooperation with russia since the stable and self-confident common neighbourhood is in the interests of both the eu and russia. in this respect we urge russia to intensify its efforts in facilitating the peaceful resolution of the conflicts in transnistria and in the more and more worrying nagorno-karabakh region. finally, i would like to mention that the eu and russia should fully cooperate in the revision and elaboration of higher standards for nuclear power safety, following the events in japan. we expect that higher standards are kept, not only in the newly built, but also in the already operational, nuclear power plants. i hope that this issue can be part of the discussions in nizhniy-novgorod.
author. - on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, i would like to state that for us the democratic development of ukraine is a priority on which there can be no compromise. the achievements of the ukrainian people should not be called into question by either internal or external factors. the current government is trying to improve both the legislative framework and the effectiveness of the fight against corruption through a series of initiatives. so she needs to be encouraged. removing the sense of impunity among the ukrainian elite could give a chance for useful reforms that would bring the country closer to the european union and give citizens perspective. today, however, we risk being accused of untying the european political umbrella over leading figures from the previous government and personally over former prime minister tymoshenko. if we reasonably expect the ukrainian government not to interfere in the work of independent courts and prosecutors, what right does the european people's party have today to involve the european parliament itself in such political interference? i cannot accept that we should issue an indulgence for all decisions made by previous rulers in ukraine. this is precisely the meaning of the text proposed, which in effect calls for the collective guilt to be used to conceal individual abuses of power. a more balanced approach could have allowed us to have a joint resolution today, which would have been constructive and oriented towards the possibilities for closer cooperation between ukraine and the european union in the implementation of judicial reform in the country, in the implementation of measures to combat corruption. but he took an ideological and confrontational approach. i call for the so-called "common resolution" to be rejected and for us to consolidate around the proposal of the socialist and democratic group. (the speaker agrees to answer a question asked by raising a blue card, pursuant to rule 149 (8))
author. - i mean, we're not talking about interference in the internal affairs of ukraine, but about non-interference in the activity of the independent court and prosecutor's office of ukraine. i think there's a difference. political interference is not desirable either from the ukrainian authorities or from the european parliament. because that is what we are doing with the texts proposed in the so-called 'common resolution'. speaking of universality, i don't know how many minutes i have, mr. president, but if we look, there are member states of the european union where we can see many similar cases. i would believe you, mr posselt, that you are committed to principles and want human rights to be applied everywhere (both in the european union and in ukraine) if you propose a similar resolution for bulgaria, where prime ministers and former ministers are being investigated on absurd charges.
in writing. the european parliament must stand up for a strong, fair and well-funded cap. it is time to achieve a fair distribution of direct payments between member states, regions and sectors. we need to show european citizens that true european solidarity is not just in words. the step taken with mr. des's report is very small, but it's in the right direction! i also welcome the proposed measures to preserve the territorial balance in the eu. i am glad that the support for young people in the agricultural sector is also mentioned in the report - because we have a duty to fight the depopulation of rural areas. it is important to maintain support for less-favoured areas and the possibility of production-related payments in regions where there is no alternative to a given production. i am happy to say that my call for more flexibility within the second pillar has also been heard. the situation in the agricultural sectors varies from one member state to another. more freedom in setting national priorities will provide real opportunities for rural development. however, it is important to be careful that the proposed measures do not add additional red tape for farmers. let's send a strong signal to the european commission and to european farmers - a signal for a fairer, simpler and more flexible cap.
in writing. the lack of adequate tools for early diagnosis of public finance problems, as well as the poorly functioning mechanisms of the stability and growth pact, are among the main causes of the debt crisis that the euro area and the eu are experiencing. with this legislative package, we are taking appropriate measures to correct imbalances before they have a negative impact on public finances. they will allow the european commission to monitor the macroeconomic development of the member states on an ongoing basis and, if necessary, to undertake an in-depth analysis of national economies. therefore, the indicators for monitoring macroeconomic developments and their critical values should not be automatically adopted by the commission but should be economically analysed. it is important to take into account the different starting positions of the member states and their macroeconomic characteristics, which differ for the euro area countries and for the rest of the eu, when drawing up the scoreboard. the analysis of the critical values of the indicators should take into account the catching up process of the new member states. only in this way can an adequate analysis of their macroeconomic development be provided.
madam president,first of all,i would like to thank romana cizelj for her excellent report, which i sincerely hope will bring us closer to the adoption of the next nuclear directive on radioactive waste and spent fuel. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world of international security, and it is not surprising that the european union has been a major player in the world of international security. but such a security, confined to europe alone, is not a great achievement. on the contrary, if nuclear activities are carried out close to the borders of the european union under rules and standards that are lower than those of europe, this is already a cause for concern for us and for european citizens. because, for nuclear accidents, geographical boundaries mean nothing. how can we spread the application of high european standards to other countries? the only tool that really works is to cooperate with such countries and to implement joint projects. i therefore consider it very important to implement the amendment adopted in itre, which allows for the export of spent fuel and radioactive waste to third countries if those countries apply equivalent to our high standards. the rejection of this possibility effectively deprives the member states of the most effective lever for spreading our high european standards. in particular, cooperation and joint projects in the treatment of radioactive waste. let us put aside the moral doubt that the european nuclear industry will take advantage of this opportunity to get rid of the inconvenient waste at the expense of other countries. it's not serious. i urge the commission to take a more constructive stance on this issue.
madam president, since january i have been organising round tables in bulgaria on the reform of the common agricultural policy. they helped to formulate a strong bulgarian position which has its rightful place in the debate on mr deß's report. i welcome some important elements of the bulgarian position in the cap debate: first, a strong, fair and well-funded cap; new, neutral, clear and fair criteria for calculating direct payments - this is the basis for the future distribution between member states, their regions and the different sectors; direct payments for active, small and medium-sized producers, for those who really drive the cap, is another of our objectives. three other points: more opportunities for our farmers; more flexibility in the second pillar; and finally, simple and clear procedures to give our farmers a decent income, the willingness of young people to invest in agriculture and for europe to continue to take care of security of supply and prices and to defend its place in the world with dignity.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work on this particularly important subject. as a bulgarian politician, i am following with particular interest the developments on the issue of the intermediate category of beneficiary regions, which is envisaged to be created in the new 2013-2020 budgetary framework. in my view, as has been repeatedly emphasised in the debate today, this question needs further discussion because it is now creating the conditions for new divisions and exceptions in the treatment of individual regions, which is contrary to the european principle of solidarity. the intermediate category is contrary to the principle of convergence of the less-developed european regions at the union average level. it is not sufficiently clear on what grounds the 75% and 90% limits were also chosen, or why, for example, a category for particularly backward regions was not created. i shall vote in favour of the rapporteur's proposal under paragraph 34, but with particular regard to the mention of regions falling within these limits, and in favour of amendment no 5 on strict and clear criteria which we believe are essential to avoid difficulties in applying the new framework.
in writing. mr president, cohesion policy includes improving the business climate, and for this purpose a well-functioning judicial system is essential. it is striking that the legislature has failed to act on the urgent changes to the justice system. we have obligations to our european partners to make large-scale reforms in this area, which must deal adequately with the many cases in the bulgarian courts, especially the flagship cases and corruption in the high floors. the many generally negative assessments by the ec and the european courts on judicial reforms and widespread corruption have not changed the criminal negligence of the rulers towards any reforms in this area. why do people who have the right to initiate changes in the law not do so, and at the same time justify their mistakes with missing reforms. why protect double standards? who has an interest in delaying any reforms? it is shocking that in the 21st century in bulgaria there is no possibility for an individual citizen to appeal to the constitutional court, which is a self-evident right of citizens in germany for example! why are supreme court justices selected in a highly questionable and opaque way, and why are there still very serious suspicions of interference by the executive branch?
in writing. cohesion policy is key to overcoming the disparities between european regions, emerging from the crisis and achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. despite this progress, there are still regions lagging behind, which calls for more and more targeted measures to reduce social and economic imbalances in europe and to combat poverty and social exclusion. better interaction between the structural funds and better coherence with other community financial instruments and national support is a prerequisite for enhancing the effectiveness of cohesion policy. providing sufficient flexibility for operational programmes to be adapted to the environment as much as possible would also play an important role. we need to move towards reducing the administrative burden on beneficiaries, including through greater use of e-government, and towards strengthening the role of local and regional authorities and socio-economic partners. in conclusion, i would like to point out that in order to achieve real social, economic and territorial cohesion and to ensure a good place to live and work for all european citizens, cohesion policy funds in the next programming period need to be at least the same as in the current one.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the albert dess report, which envisages a fairer cap after 2013. the report supports the reduction of the differences between the funds received as direct payments by the different member states, regions and sectors. this is a small step in the right direction, and i support it. the report by mr des also takes into account the problem of livestock farmers in the ceecs, who for the most part do not own land and therefore do not receive direct aid. i hope the commission will take this problem into account and propose a solution. i also voted in favour of supporting small farmers, and also in favour of providing farmers with cheaper fuel and excise duties. the report by albert dess also supports my proposal for more flexibility in the second pillar, and that is also one of the reasons why i voted in favour of the report. member states and regions must be able to set their own priorities if genuine rural development is to be achieved. flexibility is important because the situation in different member states is different. i also welcome the measures proposed in the report to support young people in the agricultural sector. i believe this is an effective way of combating the depopulation of rural areas.
in order to be able to control the different derivative instruments well, it requires people who have a very good knowledge of them. but, colleagues, a man with such knowledge, where would he go? the european control agency, where he'll get 30 to 40 thousand euros a year, or he'll become a stockbroker, where he can make millions speculating? the enrichment through the use of speculation and knowledge of how the system works has been called, for two thousand years, colleagues, oligarchy. and through the games of the new financial oligarchy, the citizens of europe (the poorest, the most ordinary people) are now paying the price for this oligarchy being left to play. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is not forced to take part in the vote on the budget. the president agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8))
thank you, mr obermayr. i think the answer to your question is very simple. when we see the council delaying for more than a year and not acting, i cannot understand the commission's position. why should nation states be prohibited from taking action themselves? when a country is threatened, it cannot wait for the council of all countries to stand up and take a decision, since it has no will. so i think that we should give the power to the nation states to ban these tools in this situation. and as for the role of esma, yes, it is extremely important. but as i said at the beginning of my speech, i just can't imagine how her staff will be recruited to carry out real control.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the frequent cases of the established vicious practice at sofia airport of unregulated opening of passengers' luggage and the frequent cases of missing items from their luggage. i've been getting a lot of complaints from passengers who receive their suitcases with broken locks and find their personal belongings missing. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been engaged in a practice of unlawful air carriage of passengers by air. violations of security and safety requirements and unregulated access to passenger baggage could lead to the commission of a terrorist act or other attack with tragic consequences. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the agreement between ryanair and ams. i urge the bulgarian authorities to exercise strict control and monitoring over the terrestrial operators to which they have issued licences. in view of the safety of flights, i insist that attention be paid to the bulgarian authorities for temporarily suspending the rights of sofia airport ead under the issued ground handling operator license.
mr. president, colleagues, i take the liberty from this high rostrum to address you to a problem which in my country, unfortunately, remains without a competent solution. the current government of our country is about to condemn an entire region of our already not very large country to environmental disaster by giving a concession to a canadian company, dundee precious, for gold mining near krumovgrad. in addition to being awarded at absurdly low prices, the concession lacks important documents, such as an environmental impact assessment. but not only that. the region is part of a protected area and is included in natura 2000. but that's missing from the documentation, too. i wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what requires the breaking of certain rules of nature protection and what requires the condemnation of an entire region to destruction. the money bulgaria will take from the concession or the money the government will collect for it? i insist that this blatant corruption deal be brought to light and that those responsible be held to account. i will also be referring this matter to the european commission, hoping that if not bulgaria, then europe will be able to preserve this region, where nature and architecture have coexisted for centuries. something that will be destroyed by the first bomb in the mines of krumovgrad.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's communication of november 2010 on 'energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond' addresses the main challenges facing the development of the eu's electricity and gas infrastructure, which will allow the achievement of a single energy market and high security of energy supply. the need to replace the outdated ten-e instrument with new legislation on energy security and infrastructure, which also provides solutions for the necessary financing, is obvious. gas pipelines and electricity networks alone will need over €200 billion by 2020. the itre report is aimed specifically at presenting the ep's position on the expected new legislative proposal. on the one hand, it confirms the four priority electricity corridors and three gas corridors, but at the same time it also proposes a way to optimise the limited financial resources. first of all, by means of clear rules for the granting of the status of 'project of european interest', which can even attract public funding. i welcome the detailed criteria developed for a project with a european dimension, which will make it possible to increase market integration, to eliminate shortcomings in interconnections, to eliminate dependence on a single supplier. more europe in energy means more european solidarity and benefits for citizens.
member of the commission. − mr president, we have followed with great interest the debate in the parliament on social services of general interest. we fully share the rapporteur’s view of the social services. we agree that the social services play an important role in terms of helping people throughout their lives and enhancing their capacity to participate in society and enjoy their fundamental rights. so the commission agrees with the rapporteur and the house that it is vital to guarantee universal access to high-quality, accessible, affordable social services. the commission is aware of the concerns expressed by public authorities and service providers on the application of eu rules to social services. however, we would like to stress that eu state aid and internal market rules can help public authorities to organise and finance good quality, cost-efficient services. in addition, we believe that some of the difficulties encountered by stakeholders are due to a lack of awareness and information about how eu rules are applied. as a result, the commission has put in place various tools over the last four years to provide more information and clarification to stakeholders, and we will of course continue to do so. the commission is also in the process of revisiting eu state aid and public procurement rules. in the state aid field, the commission will ensure that the rules take due account of the specificities of the social services sector and are proportionate to the – often limited – competition distortions in this area. this initiative will be part of a more differentiated approach to state aid for public services announced by the commission in march. on public procurement, the commission’s green paper has launched an eu-wide debate on how to increase flexibility and clarify existing rules while, at the same time, guaranteeing high-quality services. i am sure that substantial progress can be achieved in this area. i would also like to comment on an idea which was discussed in the third forum on social services of general interest, namely the establishment of a high-level working group involving a wide range of stakeholders: parliament, commission, council, committee of regions, social partners and civil society organisations. the commission is, of course, always open to dialogue on the application of eu rules to social services, as the recent public consultation has shown. at the same time we need, of course, to ensure that such a dialogue respects the role of the various institutions as defined by the treaties and leads to concrete results. we consider, therefore, that it would be more suitable and effective to build on existing structures; the commission is ready to discuss in more detail how such a dialogue could be organised.
in writing. social services of general interest are a large and complex set of activities aimed at meeting the basic needs of european citizens, often with a focus on the most vulnerable groups. they are an important tool for achieving the goal of the 2020 strategy for inclusive growth, while making a significant contribution to job creation, especially for women and older people. their role in influencing demographic change should not be overlooked. providing adequate and quality social services in european regions is an important step towards making them more attractive to their citizens. the seas are characterised by a great diversity and require more in-depth knowledge and analysis of their organisation and functioning in the member states and their contribution to social cohesion in the european union. in this way, a balance could also be struck between the vital social role of these services and the rules of the internal market and competition. in conclusion, i would like to add that ongoing demographic changes are determining the increasing importance of the sgeis and that in the context of economic crisis and severe budgetary constraints, alternative solutions for their financing should be sought, such as the wider application of public-private partnerships in this area and the adequate use of structural funds.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me start by congratulating my colleague corinne lepage for the great work accomplished. there is no consistency or consensus at the eu or national level, nor among the european public opinion, about the cultivation of gmos. i believe that this report goes in the right direction as it draws a solid and common european framework under which member states will be able to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos in their territory. those saying that such an approach would create an obstacle to the european internal market are wrong, and they tend to forget that, when it comes to such a controversial and still debated technology, affecting european territories, the landscape, biodiversity and regional specificity, the level of discussion should be left as close as possible to european citizens. the conservation of our environment and the protection of public health go before freedom of choice for farmers or the free circulation of goods within the internal market. ms lepage’s report provides european governments and citizens with an opportunity to apply this principle without contradicting european laws, and we should strongly support it during the vote tomorrow.
mr. chairman, today during the debate on the hungarian presidency mr. cohn-bendit made some rather offensive qualifiers to the hungarian prime minister, calling him a schizophrenic. i want to ask you, will punitive measures be taken to fine mr cohn-bendit, as was done with mr farage before, and if mr cohn-bendit is not fined, will not the fine for mr farage be lifted?
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the majority rejected the report on the scope for further reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and the assessment of the risk of carbon leakage outside the eu, because perhaps colleagues thought it was not ambitious enough. however, the same majority adopted in electronic voting the paragraphs that provided for achieving greater emission reductions through energy efficiency gains without changing the current 20-20-20% targets by 2020. i believe that any new higher target today puts european industry at significant risk of losing competitiveness and of moving entire industries outside the eu. because there is no guarantee that other industrialized and developing countries will follow europe's lead with the same ambitious commitments. because the new targets mean major changes in legislation, and the old one hasn't even worked yet in the eu - this is with catastrophic consequences for the planning of european business as a global player. because that would mean higher prices for emissions, greater environmental investment by business, and ultimately, a new intrusion into the diminished post-crisis financial capabilities of the citizens who have to pay the bill in the end. let's first do everything we can to get a global agreement to reduce emissions, then let's show how ambitious europe can be.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission on the proposal it has put forward, and in particular on the efforts it has made to seek additional efficiency and more european added value for the european budget. at the same time, i would like to express my deep disappointment that the commission is assuming that all these ambitious objectives will be achieved with the smallest budget of the european union ever in relation to the economies of the member states. what is very important is that in the negotiations between parliament and the council which are now beginning, we should seek to answer a number of important questions which are raised in the commission's proposal and which will determine to what extent what president barroso said a moment ago will happen: to help the regions that need to catch up in order to create a more homogeneous and heterogeneous european economy. what are just some of the questions that we are not yet seeing answered in the commission's proposal? you are introducing the principle of conditionality in european spending. however, it is not clear how this conditionality will be prevented from being a mechanical process and taken into account in the specific capacities of national economies when contracts are concluded between the member states and the commission. secondly, you propose a link between cohesion spending and economic governance. we have to say from now on that this approach may create some risks of deepening the problems, especially for countries that have problems with macroeconomic governance, that they will be further punished by withdrawing european funds. thirdly, there is the question of allocating 30% of agricultural policy expenditure to environmental objectives. one goal and one percentage, which i fully support. but how can these funds be effectively matched to the member states' capacities? what flexibility do you envisage in the budget? how will the mid-term review be conducted? how will funds be sought for all the funds outside the budget of the european union, including the european stability mechanism, which places a heavy burden on the extra-budgetary accounts?
vice-president of the commission. − what kind of measures will encourage market players or potential new entrants? first of all, there is the question of solving the present problems. i have my doubts that, even under the best possible conditions, a lot of new entrants will be knocking at the door of the irish banking system under the present circumstances. hopefully in one or two or three years the situation will have improved and will be much better than today. when we were discussing the previous restructuring plans, we suggested to the banks in ireland, for instance in the case of bank of ireland, that we should adopt the decision in relation to the first and previous restructuring plan that, if new entrants were to knock at the door, they should help their future competitors to enter the market. i think that these kinds of measures are possible and will be necessary, but i stress in the short term that financial instability concerns prevail. now we need to seriously restructure these banks and put them on a sound footing with a viable business model able to finance the activity in ireland, both households and companies. but in the future, and i hope in the foreseeable future, we can tell these banks that have been restructured with public money that they should provide some help to new entrants to enter the market in a successful way. this is what i can say today. you mentioned a known institution that is present in ireland, but this institution is also under a restructuring plan. so we need to call for new entrants, but first of all the new entrants should also be in a sound position. concerning 2013 and the angela merkel comments: that is in the new mechanism and the revision of the treaty. one thing to anticipate is that you can be subject to a contribution for restructuring a debt or a kind of haircut under certain circumstances that the issuers announce and the subscribers are aware of at the beginning. it is a completely different matter to change the rules of the game in the middle of the match.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, lack of competition in any sector stifles modernisation of production, leads to higher prices for consumers, worse products and, ultimately, to a less competitive sector. it is important that the food supply chain remains competitive, with efficiencies passed on to consumers. for that purpose, the competition rules – articles 101 and 102 of the treaty – ensure that cartels and abuses of dominant position are sanctioned and that companies have access to the market and supplies. farmers should also increase efficiency to improve their position in the food supply chain. the eu agricultural sector needs consolidation and rationalisation to achieve this. eu competition policy can contribute to this goal, to the extent that article 101 of the treaty allows farmers to develop sustainable and pro-competitive forms of cooperation to become more efficient, innovative, and better equipped to face competition both within and outside the eu. you will be aware of the work undertaken within the high-level forum for a better functioning food supply chain, which includes a wide range of initiatives including the european price monitoring tool. you will also be aware that the director-general for competition is working in close cooperation with the national competition authorities within the european competition network. over recent years a number of national competition authorities have actively undertaken sector inquiries to identify potential malfunctions in the food markets. the commission will submit a detailed report of the most significant actions taken in recent years by the national competition authorities in the food sector to the high-level forum by autumn of this year. the commission will inform the parliament of this report at the time of its submission. with regard to the sector inquiries, decisions to launch this kind of study are carefully considered, in line with the strategic priorities set by the commission. to ensure the effectiveness of its actions, the commission cannot announce in advance which sector might possibly be investigated.
vice-president of the commission. − as you know, we have been analysing these issues in recent years in a kind of task force, involving a lot of commissioners, our respective services, and the stakeholders in the sector, so i think we now have a sound knowledge of where the problems lie along these value chains. certain problems lie in my direct area of responsibility – competition policy. others are being dealt with by my colleague, dacian cioloş, the agriculture commissioner, or by the commissioners for trade, consumer protection or health, for example. in my view, as competition commissioner, the solution for the farmers will not be to organise cartels; it will be to become more efficient, and farmers have lots of possibilities open to them, in compliance with the competition rules under article 101 of the treaty, to increase their bargaining power, to improve the vertical integration of their activities and to be able to negotiate on a sound footing with the distribution chains or their intermediaries. we have excellent examples within the eu of these kinds of strategy for improving dynamism, efficiency and quality and improving bargaining power against other parts of the value chain. i know that, on some occasions, farmers say they are not used to organising themselves into cooperatives or integrating themselves into a vertical chain. nonetheless, i think this is the right way to go. there are also problems elsewhere along the chain but, according to our knowledge – which has improved over recent years with this analysis – these problems are better dealt with at national level by the national competition authorities. in fact, during the last few years, several national competition authorities have carried out sectoral studies and are adopting a lot of decisions to improve competition and improve the functioning of the value chain. all this is taking place from a competition point of view: there are also other structural policies that should help the whole sector to function better. at the end of the day, we need to protect farmers and we need to consider consumers. these are the two ends of the value chain, and both extremes of the value chain should put pressure on all the authorities concerned, so that we can deal with the problems we are finding at intermediate stages along the chain. so far, from the competition point of view, our work in this sector in recent years has not had an eu dimension. however, many of the competition authorities at national level are doing a very good job, and in our report next autumn i hope to show you how the european competition network, through the national competition authorities, is contributing to the solutions you are seeking with your question.
vice-president of the commission. − the commission is aware of these types of practice. these practices require decisions at a national level because they are not the same throughout the eu. we are not talking about an eu-wide market here, but basically about nationwide markets. in some cases, these distortions of certain prices ought to be tackled not with competition-policy instruments but rather with consumer-protection instruments or through good commercial practices, legislation for which is normally adopted at national level. at eu level too we are analysing these types of bad practice and trying to combine all the instruments available to address them. it is true that these practices exist.
vice-president of the commission. − the commission has not been approached either formally or informally by the bulgarian authorities concerning possible notification of a potential state aid issue regarding the future financing of the belene project. the commission has recently requested clarification from the bulgarian authorities on the subject, but no information has been received so far. it is thus premature to draw conclusions as to whether possible state guarantees or other ways of financing the project in the future may or may not be in line with eu state aid rules. as regards past financing, the commission has investigated the matter following a complaint. based on the council of ministers decree of 27 october 2008, bgn 300 million were allocated from the state budget with a view to increasing the capital of nek-ead, the bulgarian national electricity distributing company, in order to implement the project of building this nuclear power plant, the belene nuclear power plant. the information showed that the capital injection was performed in the light of considerations and prospects, and under conditions, that would have prompted a private investor to carry it out. furthermore, the project was subject to an invitation for expressions of interest from strategic investors addressed to prospective private co-investors in may 2007. several of them replied positively, showing interest in the project based on the available prospects at the time. this is additional evidence that private investors also consider investment in the project at market terms to be justified. on that basis and pending the further information requested from bulgaria as to future plans for the financing of the project, it would be premature to conclude that state aid financing is planned for the future and, if so, when the commission could take a decision on the matter.
thank you very much, commissioner. what you said that there has been no response from the bulgarian government on the financing of the belene nuclear power plant is the information we have. my supplementary question is what is the procedure if such information does not come in and can the commission initiate any other measures to prevent there really being a real conflict of interest?
mr prime minister, you said that the way out of the economic crisis in europe is linked to more european integration and more europe. and i completely support what you said. telecommunications is one of the areas that has so far proved to bring additional added value and concrete dimensions for citizens in the european union. i fully support the priority poland has stated for the coming months: that you deal with the issue of limiting the prices of roaming and telecommunications services. the regulation on maximum roaming charges, which is due to expire in a few months, needs to be changed and this will happen during the polish presidency. i would very much like to encourage you in this effort so that the use of the internet, the use of telecommunications services, is not only attractive for investment, but also accessible to people, creates new technological jobs, creates opportunities for more internet use and leads to a higher standard of living and better education.
in writing. we often say that the forthcoming presidency comes at a crucial moment for the european union. in the case of poland, which will lead the eu in the second half of the year, we do not expect any decisive events to justify such an assessment. but at the same time poland can reverse a negative trend that has for too long undermined the foundations of the european union, eroding the fabric of the common european project. poland has the courage to say that europe's problems can be solved by stronger integration, not by renationalising policies; by more solidarity, not by national egoism. the polish presidency will therefore have a strong ally in the european parliament. as president of the euronest parliamentary assembly, i am confident that poland will be able to give a new impetus to the european union's relations with its neighbours, both in the southern mediterranean and in the east. the eastern partnership summit is coming up in warsaw, and i hope that it will set out achievable but sufficiently ambitious targets. in mid-september, the euronest parliamentary assembly will convene its first working session in strasbourg, which will adopt clear and concrete recommendations, and i hope that these will be taken into account in the conclusions of the meeting.
ladies and gentlemen, almost two years after its creation, the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis is presenting its final report, which i consider to be one of the most important documents with a long-term vision that the european parliament has produced thanks to hard work, patience and cooperation between the political groups. i'm interested in a few of the accents in this debate. first, tackling the issue of the high levels of public debt that we have today in some member states. we all know there's no such thing as a free lunch, and sooner or later, someone has to pay the bill. therefore, not just some but all member states must take responsibility and reduce their public expenditure to reach acceptable deficit levels. of course, this is not a solution in itself that leads to economic growth, but it is an important prerequisite for ensuring financial stability for businesses and european citizens. secondly, the question of competitiveness. our efforts to increase the competitiveness of the european economy must be directed towards completing the single market, unlocking the potential for growth and job creation. to do this, i believe one way is to preserve tax competition in the union, because that is how we can ensure an optimal business environment, which will also lead to more investment. last but not least, the new non-euro area member states must be involved on an equal footing with the other countries in decision-making on the future of the union. i, like most of my colleagues, believe that the answer to the crisis is more europe and integration. i want to thank all my colleagues for their work over the last two years. i'm glad i was part of that committee.
in writing. − during the vote on the report on the provision of food information to consumers, i supported a balanced position that protects the interests of both consumers and producers. i voted in favour of giving consumers the opportunity to make informed choices when buying food and choosing a particular diet. i voted in favour of improving the readability of labels and banning practices which mislead consumers. i support the regulation of the labelling of the origin of fresh meat and hope that it will be extended in the future. european consumers have the right to know the origin of foodstuffs in order to make their choice. i believe that these provisions can contribute to the health of consumers by providing information on allergens and the composition of a product. however, it is important to avoid information overload, which can have a negative effect on consumers and lead to financial and bureaucratic burdens for the food industry, and in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. we must not forget that in addition to large enterprises, there are small producers at the local level in the food industry. i have tried to take this fact into account with my vote, so that they are not hampered financially and bureaucratically by the new legislation.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on the european commission work programme for 2012, considering that it is only an indication of our expectations. in the field of foreign policy, and more specifically with regard to the neighbourhood policy and the enlargement of the european union, the year ahead will be particularly intense. i look forward to the start of work on the progress reports for the southern mediterranean and eastern european countries, as set out in the revised neighbourhood policy. they will be a real benchmark for the flexible financing introduced, explained by the phrase 'more for more', i.e. more funds where there are more reforms and better results. i hope that next year a balanced approach will be adopted and that all the neighbours of the european union will receive the necessary attention and support. i would like the european commission to engage more seriously with the name issue of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia so that membership negotiations can finally be launched. there is a real chance that serbia will also get a start date for the negotiations and that they will start as early as 2012. i would like to see a breakthrough on cyprus which would allow the negotiations with turkey to be relaxed, with the clear understanding that turkey itself must also fulfil its commitments under the ankara agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on women and business management because the issues it deals with are very topical and deserve to be finally taken seriously by public decision-makers. this is to tackle for good the unfair imbalance that persists today between the qualifications of women and girls and their presence in positions of responsibility. that is why i support the commission's intention to present a legislative proposal in 2012 if nothing has been done by then by large companies and member states to stop this phenomenon. a quota of 30% of women on boards by 2015 and 40% by 2020 would be a significant incentive.
mr president, i would like to express my appreciation for the constitutional reforms in morocco and algeria, which are a peaceful demonstration of hope for the whole region but, unfortunately, are in sharp contrast to the recent bloodshed in egypt, syria and yemen. at the same time, as a participant in the political process of democratisation in bulgaria, i share the anxiety of opposition parties in morocco and algeria that the proposed reforms might fall short of bringing the much-desired change. allow me to borrow some wise words from otto von habsburg, who once said that the essence of a country lies in citizens’ freedoms and legal order. systems of governing, whether monarchies or republics, are just solutions that abide by these principles. governance based on legality is the most acceptable system that suits human needs. let us remember that the arab spring was at first inspired by the story of a tunisian street vendor whose basic human right to dignity was violated in public. the democratisation experience of eastern europe shows that democracy is not a single act but a constant process that goes well beyond simply calling elections. democracy cannot be imposed. democracy needs to be fully yearned for and protected by the whole society. we need to stress, also, that democratic changes are irreversible only if they guarantee the economic prosperity of a critical mass of people. the under-developed private sector of each of these countries also undermines the educated and active population. the european role in the process is not just to inject money but especially to provide know-how.
madam president, let me start by thanking lady ashton for her written answer to a question on the gaza blockade that i raised during a previous debate in plenary. it is always appreciated to have a proper follow-up and exchange based on the debates we have here in the plenary. in your answer, lady ashton, you stated that the eu continues to request israel to lift the blockade on gaza, including the naval blockade. i would be grateful if you could further explain your statement and especially how, in concrete terms, you envisaged this lifting would happen, knowing that the smuggling not only of goods but also of weapons is ongoing through the tunnels going to gaza. this was recently expressed as a serious worry by president buzek after visiting gaza. if the eu is calling for the lifting of the blockade, how does it plan to ensure security in the region – notably the security of israel – and through which specific measures? you also mentioned in your written answer the improvement in access of goods through authorised channels. could you elaborate on the progress made in that regard, and will you also take into account the changes that have occurred when further defining the eu position on the blockade?
madam president, mrs ashton, commissioner, what is happening today in the southern mediterranean is a matter of concern. i shall not go into that again, my colleagues have dealt with it very well. i would just like to make two points. first of all, the situation in libya is very serious. the member states of the union present on its territory are supporting one side financially and materially against the other. i do not support the gaddafi regime, far be it from me. what worries me is that we know very well the long-term consequences of such a binary policy: it creates antagonisms, it reinforces the divisions within a country, and this is the catastrophe that is guaranteed for decades. secondly, i'm not sure we've learned much from our mistakes. as regards intervention in libya, all decisions were taken outside the framework of the union. it is true that this is a military operation under the command of nato, but we must admit that the member states have done nothing - not even in appearance - to ensure that there is even a minimum of coordination between them. the result is that the european union remains a dwarf on the international stage. mrs ashton, i welcome your efforts to condemn the repression and human rights violations in the arab world. but what do you intend to do to ensure that the union's response to this kind of crisis is more unified, strong and visible?
madam president, i thank and congratulate mrs de keyser on her excellent and timely report. i would like to stress two points today. first, let us be careful to avoid the behaviour often blamed on europeans, who are called good paternalistic lecturers. i believe that when we promote democratization outside our borders we must respect the customs and traditions of each country. the simple copy/paste can't work. history is there to remind us of that. our model of democracy must not be seen as a sanction and must be integrated harmoniously into the host country. but beware, the law of impunity must be fought. my second point concerns the crucial role of election observation missions and their follow-up. the union has a unique instrument which democratically approves, if i may say so, a democratic process. the european parliament has the opportunity to observe the proceedings. he should be more involved in the follow-up. mrs. ashton, i welcome with caution any idea of new instruments. i think it is more important to make the existing provisions and all the mechanisms available to us in the treaties more operational and even more effective.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mrs ashton, colleagues, i am pleased that the issue of nagorno-karabakh has found a place in today's session of the european parliament. many of us are concerned about the growing tension between armenia and azerbaijan and we would not want to be in the situation of walking again after the events in the south caucasus. if the european union wants stability in the neighbouring regions, it must act now. the failure of the kazan meeting should serve as a signal that the minsk group may be on the verge of exhausting its capabilities. i would like to emphasize, however, that the primary responsibility for resolving the conflict lies with the leaders of both sides. let me be clear: we cannot tolerate either the endless stalling of negotiations or the threats of a quick military solution. we call for restraint and responsibility. the leaders of armenia and azerbaijan should think hard about how history will remember them: as the people who brought lasting peace and prosperity to the south caucasus, or as the presidents who brought death and suffering. the socialist and democratic group welcomed the fact that the revised european neighbourhood policy explicitly mentions so-called 'frozen conflicts' and hoped that this policy would promote targeted cooperation not only between the countries concerned and brussels, but also between the countries themselves. support for confidence-building measures should be given particular priority as regards azerbaijan and armenia. i cannot help mentioning that the european parliament is making its contribution to strengthening political contacts between the two countries. representatives of armenia and azerbaijan are actively involved in the work of the eastern partnership parliamentary assembly, which was established at the beginning of may. representatives of both sides co-chair one of the important working groups of the assembly. i believe that the opportunity for parliamentarians from the european union and the eastern neighbours to work together in this multilateral environment will contribute to the realization of the simple fact that cooperation is the way to a better life for peoples. i look to the polish presidency of the warsaw summit to contribute to the question of 'frozen conflicts' being placed higher on the eastern partnership agenda.
i want to disagree with the last two speakers because the root of the conflict in nagorno-karabakh is rooted in the absolutely internationally illegal decision of the russian bolsheviks in the 1920s to tear a piece of armenia and give it to azerbaijan. if you don't know, let me tell you that in exactly the same way and at about the same time the comintern makes a decision to create the then non-existent macedonian nation, from which decision we still have problems in the balkans. thank god, these problems did not develop as in nagorno-karabakh, thanks to the extremely good neighbourly relations that greece and bulgaria had with the newly created republic of macedonia (still called the former yugoslav republic of macedonia). but let's see if the same is true of nagorno-karabakh and the south caucasus. georgia, azerbaijan and turkey (armenia's direct neighbors) are conspiring to isolate it. mrs. ashton, you said it would be very nice to have the oil pipelines and the railroads running the shortest route. but georgia, azerbaijan and turkey don't want that to happen. they're intentionally isolating armenia. and that is extremely unneighborly. let's condemn him, because this attitude will not solve the problem in nagorno-karabakh.
mr president, about one year ago our parliament adopted its resolution on the need for an eu strategy towards the south caucasus with an overwhelming majority. the resolution outlined the strategic importance of this neighbouring region for the eu and the danger the unresolved conflict in nagorno-karabakh poses not only to the parties in the conflict but to the entire region and the eu as a whole. the ordinary people affected by the conflict continue to live in constant fear of war: isolated in poverty and without prospects for development or development aid. nearly one million internally-displaced persons (idps) are hostages to the current situation, which has been going on for too long. yes, the minsk group, and lately president medvedev personally, have invested a lot of effort in order to reach a peaceful agreement. then why is there deadlock each time both sides meet? in my opinion the principle of top secrecy of these negotiations is nearly exhausted, and the time has come to drop the position whereby, if both countries cannot agree, we are helpless, since if a war breaks out we cannot afford to be bystanders. the european union should work out a mandate for france and its representative in the minsk group and start playing a much more active role, together with the us and russia, in exerting pressure on both sides for bilateral concessions based on the basic madrid principles. on the other hand, political and security guarantees should be provided to both sides as requested, in order to pave the way for the development of mutual trust. the eu should also be active in providing incentives regarding infrastructure, economic development and investment so that the people on the ground and the idps and refugees coming back feel the benefits of peace once a settlement is reached. such a role for the union – broadly supported a year ago by this house – would ensure a safer neighbourhood and also provide additional leverage in securing the energy corridors for alternative supply to europe. let me say in conclusion, lady ashton, it is high time for you to visit the region and engage with the resolution of this frozen conflict, which is getting rather hot. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague for this question. i admit that it is a difficult question. what is interesting in this case of course is that we should encourage russia to play a positive role. i believe that it is in the long-term interests of russia to contribute to the settlement of this conflict, although there are probably forces who think that it is the other way round, namely that it is in our short-term interest to keep both countries in this conflict. i believe that it is possible and this is actually what the active role of the european union within the strategic partnership means.
dear mrs. aston, today's debate is being provoked by the growing tension in nagorno-karabakh. this trend must be stopped by clear and concrete commitments from both sides, as well as by ending the aggressive rhetoric and the imposition of new conditions by one or the other side that prevent agreement on the signing of a peace treaty. it is also unacceptable for leaders in the region to use the simmering conflict to bolster their internal legitimacy. the conflict in nagorno-karabakh must be resolved peacefully in accordance with the principles of self-determination, territorial integrity and non-use of force (principles of equal weight). i am concerned, as other colleagues have said, by the continued arming and acquisition of offensive military equipment by both sides. this threatens the prospect of a resolution of the conflict and lowers the threshold for the possible use of force, something that neither side is interested in. armenia and azerbaijan need to make concessions and stop being so stubborn that they are like two donkeys on a bridge, neither of which wants to take a step back and both end up falling off the bridge and drowning. as unfortunate as it is, the only positive message from the two presidents' failed meeting in kazan is that they have agreed to meet again in the near future. regional powers should play a constructive role in the process of negotiation and non-use of force, and strengthen their contacts with armenia and azerbaijan. turkey and russia must show maturity and overcome the machiavellian principles so that the conflict can find its peaceful solution. finally, mrs ashton, the european union, as many of my colleagues have said, needs to play a greater role in the region and i welcome, of course, the appointment of the special envoy for the south caucasus, as a differentiated approach is needed both to the whole region and to the individual countries and to the conflict.
mrs. ibrisagic, as i recall, your country recognized the independence of kosovo. and kosovo was also a secession of territory from a sovereign state, which we however perceived as very correct. at the same time, however, we condemn what is happening in nagorno-karabakh. do you think there should be such double standards? and since you spoke about ethnic cleansing, i want to ask you: what do you think about the ethnic cleansing that the azerbaijanis committed against the armenians, killing and displacing the entire armenian population of baku to their feet?
mr president, i should like to stress four points which i consider essential in the discussion we are having today. first of all, the changes we make to schengen must absolutely respect the european spirit in which this acquis communautaire was conceived and designed. it is not a question of reshaping schengen to make it poorer, but of strengthening it. in fact, the debate asks us the following question: are we convinced that we are defending the interests of all european citizens or are we subject to the will of the member states? it is a kind of test of european identity, and i am one of those who would rather keep valuable achievements than let them be consumed by short-sighted national interests. this brings me to my second point. the strengthening of schengen can only be achieved by a smart and balanced change in the evaluation mechanism. we know what he 's lacking now . we must rethink it to guarantee both the free movement of persons, mutual trust between member states and the security of all. sanctions and the possibility of temporarily reintroducing border controls at the borders of a member state should be considered only as a last resort, but they should exist because, without caution, there is no point in making assessments that are forgotten. i therefore believe that the balanced position we must adopt is to recognise that retaliatory measures are necessary, but within a very strict framework, that of the evaluation mechanism controlled by the european commission. i come now to my third point. if it is decided to introduce the possibility of sanctions and temporary controls, then the criteria will have to be very precise and defined in advance. finally, i would remind you that parliament has always defended its rights and that it cannot tolerate member states questioning the legal basis on which the schengen evaluation mechanism is based. we will be uncompromising, as we have been on several occasions when the council decided to ignore the codecision procedure.
in fact, the commission has yielded to pressure from the council, and more specifically from a number of leaders, to set up a new monitoring and evaluation mechanism. i would also like to ask what will happen to the previous commission document, on which we have been working successfully for several months. the problem is not the new mechanism but the successful implementation of the schengen agreement and the willingness of the member states to respect it. the schengen reform today seems to have more political intrigue than concern for preserving and strengthening the area of free movement. it seems to me that there is a tendency to take unilateral decisions through the new mechanism which could set dangerous precedents for limiting the schengen acquis. otherwise we would not have reached the danish decision, which was taken under populist pressure. what will the evaluation criteria be? how do we put an accurate measurement on corruption and crime? you know that these criteria are what delayed the accession of bulgaria and romania, despite the fulfilment of the technical requirements. exactly which column of the new mechanism will you put both countries in, now that the council is mixing up the schengen criteria with the european commission's cooperation and verification mechanism? he even has ideas for partial schengen membership. the council's proposal for a new mechanism would not reform but would render the schengen idea meaningless, which we will resolutely oppose as the representatives of the european citizens.
as we know, one of the countries that the federalists most closely emulate is the united states of america, and their dream is for europe to become the united states of europe. but in the united states, even there, the states don't vote on a federal ballot for representatives in congress, but they vote separately... (the president cut off the speaker) in this situation, why should we be bigger federalists than the united states? because the european model is very different, and there the representatives are elected... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
ladies and gentlemen, thank you, andrew, for your courage and your enthusiasm in putting electoral reform on our agenda. because we are dealing today with a very important supranational european issue, i will not speak in my native language (bulgarian), but in the language of one of the member states, which has always been the motor of european integration and which has been an example for many young european democracies in eastern europe - germany. i welcome the report, and in particular the proposal, 25 members on a european electoral list. but the devil is in the details. can you organize something? can the wähler convince you that it's right? is now the right time? and above all: are we really convinced that it's the right thing to do, or are we just looking for reasons to block it? this concrete idea comes at a difficult time. europe is at a crossroads, and we must ask ourselves whether we must deepen european integration further, remain at the same level of development or even renationalise it. the polish prime minister yesterday delivered a very optimistic and european speech, which had as its core the vision of more europe as a response to the crisis. the report contains exactly that and is a concrete aspect of that vision. in my view, the european list is a strong signal that the federal project for our continent is on its way. if we reject the report, we are giving in my opinion unfounded fear that our citizens at home do not understand, and we are capitulating to national populism. it may be that the proposal is not the perfect solution for some of us, but let us continue to work on this proposal, towards more european party formation, towards more european representation and away from national egoism! this step is necessary to promote a european debate and identity, to give europe a face and to give european issues more weight in the european elections. today the european parliament is made up of 27 national representations, the pan-european list creates a real european representation, and i would be very grateful if we could accept that.
what will actually happen when this supranational constituency is created? i don't doubt mr. duff's good intentions, but the road to hell is paved with good intentions. the concrete result will be the creation of a supranational european political oligarchy. because the leaders of the major parties will guarantee themselves a lifetime of election to the european parliament through this supranational list. the cost to european voters - €100 million more for each parliamentary term. and as regards gender equality and the election of more national minorities to the european parliament, i would like to say to all my colleagues that there are as many men and women here as the voters of the european countries have decided to send here. so as long as you continue to outsmart your constituents, look down on them and brag about them, voter turnout will decline, colleagues.
mr. chairman, i myself am a supporter of the resolution that we adopted today and of course i supported it. but the reason i ask for an explanation of the vote is that i think we should try in the future to limit the number of resolutions we adopt on some of the countries, especially with regard to russia, and concentrate on a way of working that allows us to have a more real influence on the processes that are going on in russia. it is among our most important partners and of course we would like to see more democracy, more respect for human rights. but this is not just about passing resolutions, but about concrete work, about parliamentary diplomacy, which we could do more actively, with more active contacts on the part of the commission and the council. my advice to the russian leadership, to the russian leadership, is to keep in mind that creating administrative obstacles for the opposition to participate in the elections is not a sign of strength, but a sign of weakness, and i hope they quickly understand this and create the conditions for a truly democratic election.
i, of course, supported that resolution. she had a lot of support in the european parliament. i asked for an explanation of vote because i would like to stress again that the proposals being made and the request for changes to schengen are an incorrect response to the problems that have arisen in recent months. i think that would be a piece of work, it would be a panicked approach to a problem that requires a more holistic approach to the problem. the main problems facing schengen are that we need more solidarity between the countries that are having the most difficulty, we need to strengthen border management and control within schengen and perhaps a new review of the situation on the same criteria that candidate countries are evaluated on. it seems to me that as long as schengen is developed fully at an intergovernmental level, problems like this will continue. it is therefore appropriate to find a way to give the european parliament and the commission a greater role. an example is the accession debate between bulgaria and romania. the european parliament has completed its role in time. unfortunately, governments still can't find the right way to open the doors to these two countries.
in writing. – today, europe is certainly facing the challenge of an unprecedented shortage of critical and key raw materials to sustain its technological innovation and production in the near future. this is very much due to the very high level of reliance on external supplies, coupled with the recent restrictions on chinese exports. indeed, the european commission estimates that the eu is 97% dependent on rare earth supplies from china, and china on its own produces some 90% of these valuable materials. this tendency is likely to continue with the eu’s shift to a low-carbon economy, with renewable technologies requiring more raw materials, and especially rare earths, inputs. in fact, as to europe's supply of raw materials, most certainly the resources exist and the dependency on external supply can be reduced. the question is, how can the eu secure a stable supply for our industry, and at what cost? the report that we have prepared offers some elements of a reply. certainly, today the eu needs a complex, multidimensional common strategy, combining internal and external dimensions, for the supply in raw materials.
six bulgarian sailors are threatened with a trial in the hellenic republic. the reason is that on june 23 of this year, in the territorial waters of the republic of greece they were arrested on charges of smuggling cigarettes. interestingly, according to the law of the sea, the owner and the captain of the ship, not the crew, are responsible for the way the ship is sailing and the contents of the cargo. i am puzzled and even doubtful that the sailors were not given any assistance by the bulgarian authorities in greece. private parties have been paying for the lawyer's fees. i would like to bring this serious matter to the attention of the honorable members, hoping to ensure a fair trial for them and the crew, especially since the detainees are in their 60s, and one is in hospital for heart surgery, and another is a diabetic on insulin. it is necessary to clarify why the greek authorities are acting illegally and for the third month the detainees are being denied justice. i call for a thorough investigation of this matter. the rule of law must not be undermined in any way.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner tajani, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank my colleagues on the committee on fisheries for their support in the work on the resolution we are discussing today. i would like to express my gratitude in particular to commissioner damanaki and to the european commission's directorate-general for maritime affairs and fisheries, with whom we have been working together in recent months. the resolution is determined by several factors. it is very timely in the context of the beginning of the debate on the reform of the common fisheries policy and, for the first time, the black sea basin, with its particularities and specificities, will be included. we have already adopted a resolution last year on the commission's green paper on these reforms and a resolution on the integrated maritime policy. we are also currently discussing the next budgetary period, for which we will have to determine the most appropriate financial measures for the black sea. since the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union in 2007, the black sea waters have been part of the european maritime area. the other four countries - turkey, ukraine, the russian federation and georgia - are not part of this policy. unfortunately, the level of cooperation between these six countries in the fisheries sector has always been very low or non-existent. in addition, there is a lack of legal documents to regulate this activity. in preparing the report, i participated in meetings in ankara and moscow with the institutions responsible for fisheries. the representatives of both countries assured me that they would participate and cooperate in the development of a joint agreement. these two countries hold the major share of the fisheries and the fishing industry in the black sea. the data in the report on the ecological state of the black sea are very worrying: serious environmental problems, damaged ecosystems, altered flora and fauna, endangered species. if urgent action is not taken, the risk is that we will have a dead sea. we urgently need scientific research, which is now inadequate because of the lack of coordination between countries and the lack of funding. secondly, the current quota problems which do not reflect the real situation of fish stocks and therefore create the conditions for illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. it's a common problem and difficult to solve. thanks to the excellent report by my colleague mrs lövin, which will be voted on in the committee on fisheries, we are going to take a strong stand against iuu fishing. in addition, there is still no adequate institutional structure to coordinate and manage fisheries in the black sea, and discussions and debates on its creation have already lasted for ten years without any concrete results. the competence of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean is clearly not sufficient. the creation of a separate regional fisheries management organisation in the black sea - as exists for the baltic sea for example - can help to manage and solve the majority of these problems. this organization should include all the countries of the black sea basin, monitor the state of stocks and determine the basis for in-depth scientific research. the black sea must be included in the new common fisheries policy and the integrated maritime policy. it also has to ensure the livelihood of fishermen, industry, fish production and processing, which must be considered in the new financial framework of the european fisheries fund after 2013. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the report aims to establish the long-term framework for the development of fisheries in the black sea. it is a region of economic, social and political importance. coordinated fisheries management is an important part of the global black sea strategy and cooperation within the eastern partnership.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mrs iotova on this very good – and very important – report, which aims to establish a frame for the long-term development of the fisheries in the black sea region. it is important to underline that with this report, for the first time, the black sea basin will take its rightful place among the rest of the eu waters. until now, the black sea has lacked coordinated action between all actors in the field of fisheries, and the focus on this important economic branch will encourage even further black sea cooperation. the eu should make all the necessary diplomatic efforts to attract the black sea states outside the eu as closely as possible to the principles of the common fisheries policy. one of the most significant points of the report, therefore, is the creation of a separate regional organisation for the management of fisheries, which would contribute to better policy coordination between the six states bordering the black sea. thanks to the report, the specificities of the black sea were also taken into consideration, and improved management of fisheries will lead to further restriction of the illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing from which bulgarian fishermen suffer greatly.
in writing. - i strongly support mr busuttil's report. the adoption of this regulation provides greater clarity to citizens on the functions and missions of frontex. the introduction of the concept of 'european border guard teams' reinforces the european character of the missions and demonstrates the readiness for shared responsibility and integrated management of common borders. in this way, the european solidarity enshrined in the treaties will be realised by binding legal obligations on the member states and by providing adequate financial and human resources. strengthening and clarifying the role of the agency and the member states will contribute to good coordination of action, a clear allocation of responsibilities and the ability to meet the challenges faced by certain countries. this is how we allow frontex to unfold the human mission that it carries out. in fulfilling its responsibilities, frontex must set an example not only in europe but also worldwide. migration is a human phenomenon and therefore all actions and any new mechanism of functioning must be in line with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in this regard, i welcome all the proposals made in this direction - the consultative forum, the human rights expert, the training provided for frontex staff on fundamental rights.
in writing. − i have supported this report on the situation of women approaching retirement age because i believe it is important in relation to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. women approaching retirement age are among the groups most at risk of unemployment and poverty, and are often subject to discrimination on grounds of sex and age. however, i believe that they have potential that can and should be developed and used more effectively, thus providing benefits both for the economy and for society as a whole. the european commission and the member states must take appropriate measures to promote equal opportunities, training and career development for women in old age, thus ensuring a life in dignity for them. the report also sends a positive signal in connection with the commission's decision to designate 2012 as the european year of active living for older people and solidarity between generations.
in writing. − i supported the report on an effective european raw materials strategy because the eu's over-reliance on raw materials from third countries is unacceptable. the exploding prices of raw materials have a direct impact on the competitiveness and sustainability of the european economy, on jobs in our countries. the eu needs to ensure balanced access to strategic raw materials at fair prices, and this requires a strategy that takes account of existing realities but also outlines the new european raw materials path. in this respect, the report reveals strategic opportunities that the eu must start exploiting immediately. the focus is on the efficient use of strategic and scarce raw materials. unfortunately, we have mountains of these raw materials in landfills, and at the same time, there are fierce battles to access them on the world stage. let's not wait for today's landfills to become the mines of the future. the potential for using recycled rare materials is huge and this is rightly reflected in the recommendations for the future eu raw materials strategy. recycling is a strong element of environmental legislation and should be developed in an accelerated way. the other important area is the use of raw material substitutes, which should find its place in the research and innovation programmes for the european economy.
in writing. − i supported the report on women entrepreneurship in smes because i believe that their role in modern economic life is significant and they have proven their abilities in the workplace. at the same time, i believe that the efforts that most women put into running their own businesses are significantly greater than those of men for a number of reasons, including their role in family life. i believe it is important that the commission and the member states take measures to promote gender equality and work-life balance. providing childcare, introducing adequate training programmes to improve skills and developing work-from-home opportunities are among the steps that would stimulate this process. providing easier access to financial resources for starting or developing one's own business, including through the european progress microfinance facility, is also key to supporting women's entrepreneurship.
when we talk about a transparent market and consumer protection, i want to welcome the report first. it is a step in the right direction, but we must do everything possible to pass this market through regulated markets, through energy exchanges that work everywhere in europe and eventually create a system of a single regulated energy market in europe. secondly, a minimum threshold, a minimum amount of spot transactions to be concluded on these markets should be encouraged, as a large part of the transactions are concluded in the long term and have nothing to do with the movement of prices on world markets. thirdly, additional measures must be taken to remove the monopoly of wholesale energy buyers. and finally, i would like to point out the need for compensatory deals for energy producers from... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the chatzimarkakis report and the compromise reached with the council on the adoption at first reading of the regulation on the integrity and transparency of the energy market, because it establishes rules for the management of this market at pan-european level and guarantees protection against abuse in energy trade, which is always at the expense of the final consumer. this regulation is a necessary step towards a single energy market with regulated transparency and sufficiently strong monitoring to protect consumers. yes, wholesalers will be obliged to disclose their energy transactions and will not be able to use manipulative practices or inside information to extract excess profits, especially through the final prices of energy products and services. acer is the right institution to monitor trade and provide data to countries when investigating breaches and imposing penalties. however, national regulators have the primary responsibility and the power to ensure a transparent and competitive energy market. i call on the commission to develop urgently the necessary provisions on the reporting of information by traders and to set up without delay the eu single energy trader register. it is high time that only registered market participants enter into wholesale energy transactions.
in writing. good lawmaking is at the heart of the proper functioning of the single market and the eu as a whole. the correct application of the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality and smart regulation is key, especially in view of the current economic situation in europe. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, these principles have been strengthened and developed, but i believe that we must continue our efforts towards their fuller and more adequate implementation with a view to increasing competitiveness and economic growth within the european union. i would like to highlight a few aspects which i find extremely important. more and better tools to take account of the views of all stakeholders need to be implemented in the consultation process and feedback mechanisms should be further developed. this would increase transparency and improve the quality of legislation, which would help to ensure its proper implementation. i welcome the introduction of the sme test, but i think it should be used more widely to take more fully into account the potential impact of the new legislation, especially on small and micro-enterprises. i would also like to emphasise that the introduction of a policy impact assessment on competitiveness would help europe to emerge from the crisis and help to stimulate economic growth.
member of the commission. − the commission is aware of the impact the crisis has on employment and especially on youth unemployment. we looked at this very seriously and rolled out a number of initiatives to improve the situation on both national and european levels. but there is another dimension, and that is to rebuild a european economy that would be more sustainable. to that end, commissioner tajani’s initiative of the europe 2020 strategy plays a strong role, which is about industrial policy and assuring that the european economy would be more sustainable while also improving competitiveness. so we are very strong allies in this and i am a great supporter of the tajani initiative.
i agree that increasing employment with new forms of work is particularly appropriate in times of crisis. at the same time, new forms of work could create prerequisites for hidden discrimination, reduced social security and economic stability for workers, uncertainty and unforeseeable impacts on occupational health and safety. although the performance of any work must be in accordance with the basic standards of the international labour organisation, do you agree that these forms of work are more difficult to control and could the commission commit itself to issuing a dedicated document on this issue?
in writing. the debt crisis in the european union is the result of poor fiscal discipline and irresponsible spending by some member states, but also of the lack of adequate instruments at european level to allow effective control and timely correction of existing imbalances. today, the eu must act decisively and speak with one voice in taking the necessary measures to find a way out of the difficult financial situation of some of its member states. a holistic approach is needed, including an action plan at national and european level. over-indebted countries need to undertake important structural reforms, take the necessary steps to balance their budgets and optimise the functioning of their public administrations. in parallel, effective instruments for the monitoring and control of public finances should be established at european level. non-euro area countries should be included on an equal footing with euro area countries in the consideration of the new fiscal rules. only then can we be sure that all member states are looking in the same direction and avoid a two-speed europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr. meyer's report. the annual activity reports of the committee on petitions are intended to provide an overview of the work done on the basis of available statistics. these reports are extremely important for improving the efficiency of our commission. as meps, we all have a duty to protect the rights of european citizens. however, this applies even more strongly to the members of the committee on petitions. it is therefore necessary to note several important points in the report: the slight decrease in the number of petitions compared to 2009 may tell us about the improvement in citizens' awareness of the work of our committee. however, we must continue to make efforts in this direction, because we also find a large number of inadmissible petitions whose authors still confuse national and european areas of competence. the large number of inadmissible petitions also speaks to the need for accountability on the part of the competent authorities and institutions. finally, it is important to note the effect of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on the committee on petitions: the legally binding nature of the eu charter of fundamental rights, the european citizens' initiative, the european external action service, etc.
madam president, the libyans need a new libya, but to build that new libya, we must first get rid of gaddafi, because as long as that bloodthirsty autocrat is out there somewhere in the wild, the civilian population will remain under threat. this first step must be followed by a reconciliation of the two sides, because apart from the international dimension which this conflict has taken as a result of nato's intervention, it is above all a civil war which has divided the country. and you don't rebuild a country that has been through a civil war without going through the reconciliation phase. it is up to the national transitional council to meet this challenge by laying a solid foundation for democracy. we must support this transition as best we can, in the most sensible way. we need to think long term, not just about financial aid, but especially about the democratic expertise we can bring to libya.
the package of anti-corruption measures adopted by the commission on 6 june this year is pragmatic and serious. it means we're about to part ways with a superficial and emotional approach to the topic of corruption. the package includes impressive ideas such as making legislation clearer and more vigorously enforced, establishing a monitoring mechanism, and producing reports every two years. in some countries, core corruption patterns are still treated symbolically. to combat political demagoguery, we really need to make sure that the commission looks at each member state to make sure that the legislative measures already adopted are applied systematically and without compromise. it would also be very useful to further refine the very definition of corruption, because there is a symbiosis between western market expansion and traditional eastern culture, and this symbiosis gives rise to incredible corrupt ingenuity. we also have to accept that greater transparency is an absolute imperative when we encounter a combination of corrupt motives, conflict of interest and clumsy prosecution. in such cases, it would be good, commissioner, if the commission could collect important facts illustrating the actions of individuals, corporate entities, parties and officials.
corruption is a phenomenon that we need to speak out about. it is a phenomenon that has spread across europe and beyond. one hundred and twenty billion euros of corruption losses point us to the heart of the problem. we have a common european challenge and it requires a common serious and coordinated response. the only antidote to corrupt practices is transparency. transparency in that we acknowledge its existence, transparency about the measures taken and transparency about the subsequent controls and sanctions. i'm going to focus on four important aspects. first, to specifically name this problem, independent and reliable indicators must be found and used. they are the basis and must be valid for all member states. secondly, it is important that european countries share their experience in fighting corruption, identify good practices and let us not be afraid to draw on the experience of the latest eu members, such as bulgaria and romania. third, there is a need to strengthen cooperation between the various european and international institutions dealing with the fight against corruption. let us show that europe has the political will to tackle the problem and let us use this opportunity to help our countries in economic crisis to stop the flow of funds from corruption. finally, concrete actions will send a strong message to european citizens and help to overcome the crisis of confidence currently affecting europe and towards europe, and this is precisely what requires the involvement of the european parliament as a guarantee for a stronger direct link with citizens in the fight against corruption.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the alde group has been calling for this plenary debate on the growing concerns surrounding the outcome of next week’s united nations summit on the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases. we certainly cannot afford a mild and watered-down un declaration on such a crucial public health issue, which accounts for 86% of deaths in europe and represents a significant economic burden. we are glad to hear that commissioner dalli will be in new york. we now hope that the eu position during the summit will lead to increased efforts to prevent and control ncds at global and eu level. let me just remind you of a very simple fact: most ncds are preventable. therefore our primary objective should be the prevention and reduction of risk factors, mainly tobacco, poor diet, alcohol, the lack of physical activity and environmental pollution. we know that such a strategy could save lives and could also save money, which would also be most beneficial to the sustainability of our national systems that are currently under pressure. if we really want to be successful in reducing the burden of ncds in europe, we need to rethink our public health model and focus not only on managing these diseases once people are diagnosed, but also on preventing them. it is therefore essential that we provide people with a healthy environment and opportunities, that we inform them about healthy habits and that we enable them to take healthy choices. preventing and controlling ncds needs political commitment and that is what we are asking of the council and the commission in advance of the un summit. the burden of ncds and the scale of the issue in every member state call for the establishment of an eu strategy on chronic and non-communicable diseases, which will have to be followed by national plans implementing the strategy. today we are about to vote on a very ambitious joint motion for a resolution which has been tabled with the support of all main political groups. let me conclude with another very simple fact that is reflected in parliament’s text: food, tobacco, alcohol, lifestyle and the environment matter to our health. to combat ncds effectively, we need parliament and all the institutions to agree on this simple fact, not only today but also when we debate and vote on our future food, environment and consumer policies.
in writing. the green paper published by the european commission, which sets out a common strategic framework for research and innovation funding, is an important step towards achieving the goals of sustainable, rational and inclusive growth. i believe that the integrated approach outlined in it to the use of the different european programmes and funds will help to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the funding of scientific and innovative projects and increase their added value. however, i believe that further efforts are needed to involve more actors from all member states in this process and to improve access to financial resources. lack of experience with european programmes, insufficient information in most of the languages of the european union, complex procedures for applying, implementing and reporting projects, and access to co-financing are among the problems that limit the potential of research communities and businesses, especially in the new member states. i would also like to stress the need for a closer link between research and business needs and for improving access to research and innovation for smes. i believe that this would make the greatest contribution to increasing the competitiveness of the european economy and creating new jobs.
author. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the author of this oral question, i am also convinced that the time is right to assess our economic and trade relations with taiwan. as a world leader in the high-tech industry, taiwan is the european union's 14th largest trading partner, with a growth rate of 10.8%, following the recovery of its economy in 2010. taipei has a population of 30% with university degrees and inflation of 1% in 2010 remains relatively low. the european union is the largest investor on the island; its investments amount to 1.2 billion dollars in 2010. as mrs andrikienė has just pointed out, the economic cooperation agreement with mainland china and the start of negotiations for a cooperation agreement with other countries in the asia pacific are aimed at involving taipei in the asean process in asia and at promoting its international integration in the field of trade. these are positive signs for the european union and a future second generation agreement with taiwan would provide links to cross-strait supply chains and better access for european companies to markets in the asia pacific. the european union's trade strategy is to engage more with high-growth economies. i therefore believe that such an agreement could help to improve access for european companies to new markets. it should be noted that taiwan, as an economic and commercial entity, is a member of 31 international organizations such as the wto, the asian development bank and apec. it should also be noted that a visa-free regime has been in effect for taiwanese since january 2011. the one-china policy is one thing, but the european union needs more creative solutions to deepen its trade partnership to the benefit of its citizens and businesses.
madam chairman, on saturday, 19-year-old angel petrov was deliberately hit by a car and died on the spot. the man arrested for his murder is close to the gypsy boss, criminal boss, kirill rashkov. one night after that, an angry mob gathered outside kirill rashkov's house and set it on fire. these are some extremely unpleasant scenes that have happened in my country. kirill rashkov has been welded to the advent of democracy, serving a 30-year sentence for a variety of crimes. he is now becoming a symbol of two things: first, of untold wealth gained illegally, and second, of special treatment because of his ethnicity. for 20 years, bulgarian governments, including those now in power, have forced the judiciary and the judicial authorities to have a double standard. this leads to an escalation of tension, this leads to the desire of the bulgarian citizens for justice, and if this does not change - i do not want the population to take justice into their own hands, but if this situation does not change, this is what will happen.
madam president, we know that if a catastrophe is well handled with a good reaction capacity many lives can be saved and colossal damage can be avoided. nevertheless, prevention is the best solution of all. in particular, with regard to man-made disasters such as fukushima or the oil spill in mexico, we have to enhance the benefits of ensuring our safety by anticipation. paying particular attention to climate change and developing a greener economy will surely be a way to reduce considerably both man-made and natural disasters. finally, i would like to thank our rapporteur for the work done on a very important, but also an extremely complex, issue. as a matter of fact, it is difficult to find a common guideline to these phenomena, which are all different and which all need a very prompt and accurate reaction.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr daniel caspary, on his excellent report, which deals with all aspects of the european union's trade strategy from a truly liberal point of view. it is all the more important that the european union should remain committed to this approach and not repeat the mistakes made in the 1930s, when the economic crisis marked the advent of aggressive protectionism. this danger is even more evident in view of the difficulties in concluding the negotiations in the doha round. ladies and gentlemen, i expect the commission to adopt a more comprehensive strategy in the field of trade. i would like to know, for example, with which countries we intend to start negotiations for a free trade agreement by 2020. i would also like to know what non-tariff barriers we are aiming to eliminate by 2020 with russia, the united states and china. i would also like to know how we are going to deal with the problems with the countries which are linked to us by a customs union. i would like to see more ambition from the commission in terms of growth but also the integration of our principles of development, human rights and the environment into trade policies. trade is needed to help poor developing and least developed countries achieve the millennium development goals. that is why we must give the necessary tools to stimulate growth, which the european union desperately needs, while at the same time forging an ambitious and coherent trade policy.
in writing. − i have supported this motion for a resolution because i share the rapporteur's view on the problems of absorbing structural and cohesion fund funds and the lessons to be drawn from them for the future of eu cohesion policy. i fully agree that one of the main reasons for the weak take-up during the current programming period is due to the overly complex rules and procedures for applying, implementing and reporting projects and their frequent changes. providing clear guidance and guidance to the managing authorities on the implementation of european legislation by the commission in a timely manner is an important condition for reducing the risks of errors and delays. finding a balance between ensuring legality and transparency and the need to achieve greater efficiency is key to the objectives of cohesion policy. i support the view that the regulatory framework should allow for greater flexibility in operational programmes so that they can better reflect the specificities and development processes in the different regions. it is essential, especially for the new member states, to strengthen the administrative capacity of the units responsible for the management of the structural funds. the exchange of experience and good practice is an important tool for achieving this objective.
in writing. − i supported the report on strengthening the european union's response to disasters because i believe that the main lines of action outlined in it are important for the future and security of european citizens. as a former minister responsible for these issues in bulgaria, i am convinced that good coordination and coherence, both within the eu and with international partners, are key when crisis situations arise. unfortunately, in recent years we have witnessed severe disasters, both natural and man-made, which have resulted in serious human casualties and social, economic and environmental damage. i believe that we should be more consistent and proactive in taking preventive action to prevent the adverse effects of such events and we need to improve our readiness for a coordinated response at european, national and regional level when disasters occur. at the same time, i believe that aid mechanisms should ensure greater flexibility and rapid response. i fully support the need for a clear communication strategy and better access to information, as this would increase the effectiveness of the policy.
in writing. - i gave my support to this report because tourism is one of the most important economic sectors in the european union and a major source of employment. taking measures to increase the competitiveness of the sector worldwide and to ensure sustainable growth in tourism are tasks facing the member states and the eu, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. i believe that one of the most important messages of the report is the need to develop human capital through training and vocational qualifications, which would lead to a substantial increase in the quality of the tourism product. given that a large proportion of enterprises in the sector are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, i believe that more support is needed for the uptake and use of information and communication technologies and innovation. another important focus is the continuation of the actions launched with 'calypso' to overcome the seasonal nature of tourism and to provide opportunities for vulnerable groups to use tourism products. i believe it is necessary and i support the development of a common vision of europe as a tourist destination offering natural diversity, a rich cultural heritage and various forms of alternative tourism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs zimmer's report because i believe that the issue of food security in developing countries is of paramount importance for world security and peace, especially in view of the growing population. that is why i would like to stress a few important points. first, in order to create conditions for improved food security, it is important to stimulate the emergence of regional markets in developing countries through the use of economic partnership agreements. secondly, i believe that the food security problems of certain countries should be taken more into account in the calculation of development aid. finally, i would like to draw attention to the fact that agriculture accounts for only 4% of official development assistance (oda), while a full 75% of the world's poor live in rural areas. i therefore believe that the question of agriculture should be at the forefront of development programmes. i think this is an important step in improving food security in the world and fighting hunger. we need to take action to achieve the millennium development goals on fighting hunger! let's react while there's still time!
madam president, madam high representative, commissioner, colleagues, today is another debate on the situation in the middle east. it certainly won't be the last, but i believe we are moving closer to solutions that will lead to the peaceful coexistence of two peoples, two independent and equal states. the application of palestine as a full member of the un is a step that carries great risks, but also opens up opportunities. i'm sure president abbas would not have taken this step if he wasn't convinced that all other options and means had been exhausted. i personally see it as a cry for help, and no one can pretend not to hear it. while the peoples of north africa and the middle east are fighting for democracy and a better future for their countries, the palestinians still do not have a state of their own. that alone is enough to cause discontent and new radicalization in the region. i understand the difficult situation the international community is in. but let's also take this as a test of our ability to show determination and unity. i would like to see a united position of the member states of the european union in support of the request made on behalf of the palestinian people. the sooner we achieve that position, the easier it will be for us to play a substantial role in the process afterwards. that said, i would not want to close our eyes to the serious security risks to israel. i am convinced, however, that the price of inaction and delay in negotiations is becoming ever higher for israel itself. i would like you, mrs ashton, to share with us your view of the best possible scenario from here on out, and perhaps share with us how the european parliament can help you with that.
mr president, first of all on the eastern partnership, i would like to draw your attention to the caucasus region. it is very important to look at this region as a whole, because at the moment this region is actually divided into two groups of countries - essentially one group and one other country. georgia and azerbaijan are currently conspiring with turkey to isolate economically, transportally and in any way the third country in the region, armenia. this is absolutely unacceptable and the european union must oppose external interference from outside the union which is trying to undermine virtually everything the eastern partnership is trying to achieve. secondly, on the issue of ukraine and the case of ms. tymoshenko, i think that, yes, ms. tymoshenko has a right to a fair trial - a basic human right that has been put into a bit of doubt because of her excessive detention in custody. but the ukrainian people also have the right to be free from harm and to be governed in their own interests. and if ms. tymoshenko has violated the interests of the ukrainian people, she should be held accountable for it.
mr president, i think we should not expect too much from this summit, but at the same time we have to admit that a lot has been achieved since 2009, when the eastern partnership summit launched the new initiative. two years is not very long, but at the same time we were able to shape a policy which is now starting to produce results. i cannot be so pessimistic about the dynamics because i can see with my own eyes that more and more people from the eastern countries, from the eastern partners, see their future in a family with us. they want to work in the same way that we work, with more transparency, with more responsibility, and this is something that we should encourage. i think that with the enp review in may this year, the communication of the commission gave the policy a new impetus towards the east as well. here, we should say that we can only achieve results if we coordinate more and if we support each other’s initiatives at different levels – commission, council, parliament and the member states. we need to pay equal attention to the east and south. this is a message we got from all our partners. we need as a common goal visa-free travel and this is important for the people as well. we also need to open more programmes for the partners, especially those in education and science. finally, an association agreement with ukraine is something that could be a good example for all the others, and i must say that the fact that the penal code dates from stalinist times only shows how much reforms are needed, and also that ms tymoshenko failed to change this code when she had this opportunity. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i am grateful for the question, because i did not really have the opportunity in this short time to say a few words about euronest. it is true that we were not able to adopt the report that was presented. this was due to a very small disagreement on very small issues – i say small, because it is only one small part of the whole range of issues that have been discussed in the euronest assembly. this is something that we will take into account for future meetings, but my experience is that all five countries are interested in continuing this cooperation under euronest. this is a lively structure. they are all very happy with the possibility of working with us and they will invest great effort in the future work as well. this is the message i got from my recent visits to armenia and azerbaijan after the first plenary session of euronest two weeks ago. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the eastern partnership offers many opportunities for fruitful cooperation between the eu and its eastern neighbours, but its greatest added value lies in its multilateral dimension. therefore it is very important to keep the balance in the relations with all the eastern partners, not to focus on separate countries but rather to develop the potential of this neighbouring region as a whole. regional cooperation is crucial in this regard, particularly the development of the transport and energy corridors, which is not only indispensable for eu security but also an important element of the partners’ economic integration with the eu. unfortunately this cooperation is impossible in a situation of conflict and closed borders. therefore we need to create an atmosphere of peace and trust and to step up our efforts to find a peaceful solution to the still unresolved conflicts in the region. the eu is playing a stabilising role in georgia but should be much more active as far as the conflicts in transnistria and nagorno-karabakh are concerned. it should put more focus on these issues in the framework of the eu-russia dialogue, which is very important. clear eu commitments are also needed for post-conflict participation and stabilisation. i think this is the way forward for the increasing role of the eu as far as the eastern partnership is concerned.
in writing. − i have given my support to this report because budgetary surveillance in the euro area is the basis for strengthening and improving economic governance in the union and will lead to a stronger national commitment to european economic policy. i support the adequate regulation and supervision of financial markets, minimum requirements for member states' budgetary frameworks and the establishment of a reliable and permanent crisis resolution mechanism, believing that this would contribute to improving policies for sustainable growth and jobs, to promoting eu competitiveness and international trade. i believe that the creation of the european semester for policy coordination and the exercise of enhanced monitoring and evaluation of budgetary measures is necessary to improve the budgetary surveillance framework in europe. i find the report particularly valuable for establishing a sound and reliable mechanism to prevent excessive debt and to resolve the debt problem in the euro area. i believe that the proposed system of incentives and sanctions would contribute to enhancing the guarantees for compliance with the stability and growth pact.
in writing. − i consider it essential to adopt a regulation to prevent and correct macroeconomic imbalances in the member states of the european union and therefore support the european parliament's legislative resolution on this matter. the economic and financial data of the member states clearly show that many countries do not comply with the rules and policies they have helped to adopt. we cannot continue in this way because it compromises democratic values, makes our collective efforts meaningless and dooms them to failure. this is more than necessary to change, because the crisis, which is still far from over, is threatening the union's political stability and because it cannot be a world player unless it improves its macroeconomy. i consider it a strong practical move to link the monitoring of countries' economies to nominal, financial and structural indicators, and to monitor the commission's corrective actions taken by member states. i believe that the publicity provided for in the document will further contribute to achieving its objectives and will allow monitoring of the contribution of the new mechanism to the implementation of the growth and jobs strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on sexual orientation and gender identity at the un human rights council. we need a collective awareness of the seriousness of human rights violations based on sexual orientation and gender identity. even today, in the 21st century, such violations are a daily occurrence. all over the world, including europe. discrimination is everywhere in our societies, whether it is overt or implied. the commission and the member states must continue to combat them within and outside the borders of the european union. we must live with our times. when i see that sexual identity disorders are listed as pathologies in the international classification of diseases, i am saddened to see that we continue to turn a blind eye, perhaps out of hypocrisy, to a social reality that is part of the fabric of society.
mr. chairman, the first lesson i learned in college, the one i was taught in economics, was that there's no such thing as a free lunch. there are two and a half million pensioners in bulgaria. i've told you many times and i'll say it again, the average pension in bulgaria is 150 euros. when you subtract the money for utilities and medicine, there's practically nothing left for food. if it is true what mr sawicki said that a european union citizen is entitled to one euro participation in the programme, this means that bulgarian pensioners have contributed to this programme with two and a half million euros of their already insufficient money. at the same time, the programme in question does not exist in my country. and although i want to join all the colleagues who have spoken before me in saying that this programme should be continued, i would like to call on the commissioner and the commission to take measures so that this programme is made available to all needy citizens of the european union in all member states. i also thank mrs zimmer for naming the countries which are currently blocking the council's decision. since she spoke so quickly because of the short speaking time, i would ask mr sawicki to repeat the names of those countries so that all of us, all the european citizens who are here on the balcony and watching us on the internet, can also hear who are blocking this correct social decision.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, none of us is insensitive to the fact that 80 million people in the european union are at risk of poverty and 14 million are dependent on the food programme. worse, this trend could be getting deeper. the commission must find a legal basis for the existing food programme and for a new one. a sudden halt and drastic reduction of aid does more harm in the long run than good in the short run. a few more important points: true, such aid should be given to those who really need it, to avoid dependency on it. but addiction is overcome by giving these people a chance to grow. and need, above all, should not be confused with addiction. secondly, the role of the structural funds and their relevance is important. but at their core is the importance of good, healthy nutrition from childhood and throughout life. our role is to help people so that food scarcity doesn't lead to addiction, and addiction doesn't determine development. on a global scale, more joint actions such as those with the un agency send a very strong signal that the european union is sending beyond our continent. finally, the fight against hunger is a millennium goal. more importantly, we are fighting for a new cap that cannot afford to feed differences and create new injustices. let us not lose sight of the values and principles that we have always believed in.
because i understood the last part of the question from the previous member of parliament and i'll try to ask it so that you can understand it better. if tomorrow we decide to ban nuclear power and close all nuclear power plants in europe and ban the construction of new ones, where will the energy come from that we will lose from nuclear power plants? what do you propose to replace that energy with?
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank in particular mrs malmström, who is always present when it comes to schengen, but i am surprised that the president of the european commission, mr barroso, is not among us in such a debate, which is supported by the vast majority in the european parliament. he is obviously not interested in him and the will of the meps and prefers to replace them with his participation in the election campaign in bulgaria. with today's resolution we are calling for the decisive intervention of both the commissioners and the council ministers for a decision or a clear timetable for the admission of bulgaria and romania to schengen. the case of accepting both sides is very serious because it calls into question the operation of european law. the criteria for this membership are met, but there is no decision. the council has put the commission and all of us in a legal trap by allowing new requirements for both sides during the adoption procedure itself. the european commission, which is the guardian of the treaties and monitors their implementation, should react much more strongly to this behaviour by the council. the european commission must ensure that the new package it proposes to assess the fulfilment of the schengen criteria is implemented by all and does not depend on the political situation. finally, i would like to reply to mrs bizzotto by quoting a statement made today by our socialist colleague: 'if we are to treat the fight against crime and corruption in the member states in the same way as we treat bulgaria and romania, italy should have left schengen a long time ago.'
mr president, i am not at all surprised that bulgaria and romania are being treated with a double standard. bulgaria and romania have been subject to a double standard throughout the process of accession to the european union. for six years, i've listened to this room talk about not applying double standards. and yet the negotiations were conducted with double standards, the accession was a glaring example of double standards, because bulgaria and romania were separated from the other ten countries by the fifth enlargement. joining the euro is a double standard. now it's time for schengen, another double standard. and look who's vetoing it -- the netherlands, a country that has recently shown that it itself has no desire to be in schengen. the question is not whether bulgaria and romania have met the criteria. it is not even in the dutch and finnish governments' will to apply double standards. the problem, colleagues, is the very system that you federalists have put in place - a crazy, pointless and unnecessary system that must be abolished and which has no practical application.
mr president, the way in which the words bulgaria, romania and schengen are spoken in one sentence illustrates a great paradox. the schengen working party has given a positive assessment. the council has decided that both sides are ready. parliament has confirmed the same. and even on june 24th, the heads of government agreed that the decision would be made no later than september. given the obvious logic of this series of actions, the result today is zero. bulgaria and romania are still waiting for an unknown amount of time. they encounter requirements that seem to be formulated ad hoc. these requirements do not derive from the treaty of accession. they create inequality. the two member states which blocked the accession of romania and bulgaria are stubbornly defending a paradox. it must be stated categorically that the rejection of a positive decision on the accession of bulgaria and romania creates an unacceptable situation which is turning into political isolation of the two countries. and our union must not fall victim to isolationism.
my dear colleague, we just heard the commissioner say that bulgaria and romania meet all the criteria for membership. you say otherwise. answer me this question, are you lying or is the commissioner lying? if you say she's lying, stand up and tell her to her face.
mr president, if all the member states had followed the rules they have set themselves, not only would europe not be in the financial and economic crisis it is in, but we would not be having this debate today. unfortunately, the reality in europe is different. member states do not comply with the rules they have adopted. as a result, we have an economic and financial crisis, we have blocked bulgaria and romania's membership in schengen. the reality is that both countries fulfilled all the criteria against which the earlier schengen countries were assessed and which were laid down in the accession treaties. there is no argument to support the thesis that the accession of the two countries puts the schengen area at risk. on the contrary, let me use facts to argue bulgaria's contribution to the security of european citizens. bulgaria and romania became part of the schengen information system in november 2010. from the beginning of november 2010 to 11 october 2011, the data show that bulgaria provided the following information to the schengen member states: 323 wanted persons for arrest, 1383 wanted motor vehicles, personal documents, weapons and other personal effects in the schengen countries, 92 missing persons, 1208 persons involved in criminal proceedings in the schengen area, 737 discreetly monitored persons and over 8000 refused visas to enter the schengen area. bulgaria and romania are already fulfilling their responsibility in solidarity with all other citizens of the european union. ladies and gentlemen, i hope that with these arguments, not only the european citizens, but also the finnish and especially the dutch citizens, will see that bulgaria's accession to the european union is a very important step towards the establishment of a european union. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for months now, arguments have been made in favour of bulgaria and romania joining schengen. today, they are again given a voice to be heard by those who put themselves above the rules. we reiterate today that the refusal of the parties is unjustified and a breach of procedure because of their proven technical readiness. we argue that there is double standards, even discrimination. we are talking about a crisis of confidence across the union and political populism in the countries that are against joining. we warn that we are on the verge of abandoning values like equality, solidarity, cooperation. i hope we will not be held hostage to the scepticism that has been fuelled by the severe crisis. otherwise, i would agree with the idea of rethinking the procedure for taking a decision by unanimity in the council, especially when it is exercised to the detriment of legislation.
mr president, the european union's actions are based on sound logic, clear rules and clear messages. i find none of the ones listed in the council's argument. the suspension of bulgaria and romania's membership of schengen is a dangerous game of vital importance and serious risks. the unclear reasons and any additional criteria have serious implications. they are fundamental in the long run. at european union level, will we defend european values and equal rules for all, or will we succumb to populism and nationalism? corruption is a european problem. once we have a clear line between him and the others, we can deal with him. at the level of bulgaria and romania, the council decision is part of the european union's image for bulgarian and romanian citizens. i am glad that as a member of the european parliament i will not have to correct the image that some countries in the council are currently creating of the european union. finally, what is the council's response to our work in the european parliament and its reports? what's the point of making new rules when the existing ones aren't being followed? your message at this moment is one: european citizens are not on your agenda.
in writing. mr president, bulgaria and romania have fulfilled all the criteria for joining the schengen area as set out in their legislation and eu accession treaties. in fact, the eastern borders are already guarded by these countries according to schengen criteria, even though they are not officially in this area. these are the facts, and from here on out, the problems start. the eu is divided over the measures to emerge from the growing financial and debt crisis, when the very existence of this union is threatened. two countries are blocking a council decision on the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen without having any legal basis for doing so. it's like everyone's pulling the strings. the question inevitably arises whether the eu can make strong decisions in such a complex situation, when the only answer is more europe, more unity and solidarity, not division and national protectionism. in this context, the upcoming council on 23 october is a test of the union's ability to meet citizens' expectations of leaders to take decisive action to tackle looming threats, including abandoning populist domestic goals in the name of saving europe. the decision to admit bulgaria and romania to schengen is part of this test!
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mrs ashton, we are watching with great concern developments in the southern mediterranean countries. this is a theme that is present in almost every session of the european parliament. we discuss, propose solutions, ask the commission, the council and you personally to act. we appreciate your quick reactions and the clear positions you express. but we have to admit that somehow things are not changing for the better, in fact, they are. the situation in syria is gradually getting out of control. the opposition is becoming more brutal. the regime in damascus clearly has no intention of stopping the violence and initiating rapid political reforms. on the contrary, he even threatens a major regional conflict, which he wants to involve israel and iran. such behavior already speaks of weakness and nervousness, which does not bode well for the syrian people or the region as a whole. egypt is undergoing a process that is causing mixed feelings. on the one hand, egypt is heading towards its first democratic elections, while international observers have not been invited, and whatever the formal explanation, this is not a good sign. there are growing trends that could derail the democratic march from tahrir square. tensions between religious groups are not new, but rather than guaranteeing religious freedom, conflicts are growing. the involvement of the police in the massacre on sunday (we can't call it otherwise) is very disturbing. i urge you, mrs. ashton, to demand a full investigation of the events as you have stated, punishment and trial of the guilty and new guarantees by the egyptian authorities that the rights of minorities, including religious minorities, will be guaranteed. it seems to me that we should seek clearer support and commitment from our strategic partners with global aspirations, such as russia and china, as well as from the countries applying for membership of the european union, i mean turkey, which should be more actively involved in the joint actions of the european union and its member states. i will not ask questions, but i would like you to use your presence here to tell us if there are any other steps that the european parliament could take to support your efforts.
mr president, it is very unfortunate that the verdict against the former prime minister of ukraine comes at such decisive moment. it casts a shadow on all efforts made by the current government to bring the country closer to the eu. the seven-year prison sentence for ms tymoshenko rightly provoked an outrage throughout the eu and its member states. however, against the political correctness i want to be honest in this debate, and i am speaking on my own behalf here. is the sentencing of ms tymoshenko really political revenge, or was it really an end to impunity in ukraine? was the sentence of seven years a shocking abuse of the law, or can we simply not imagine the scale of the abuse of power and the damage to the country? when we call for a fair and objective trial, do we really mean that, or do we mean ‘release tymoshenko’? for me, the answers to these questions are not self-evident. let us put aside the emotions, let us not be too quick in rejecting the eu aspirations of the ukraine. let us help both the government and ms tymoshenko find a solution so that the rule of law is preserved but the political process and the next elections are not called into question. i call on the president yanukovych to take the situation seriously and to respond adequately to our concerns.
madam chairman, i'm rather puzzled tonight in the plenary. i heard some of my colleagues from the epp passing judgments. excuse me, colleagues, we are in the parliament hall. if you want to pass judgments so badly, leave parliament, go and become a judge and there you will pass as many judgments as you want, if you want acquittal, if you want conviction. i don't want my words to be misunderstood. i'm not taking a position on whether ms. tymoshenko of ukraine is guilty or innocent. i had the honor of meeting her a year ago. but i know my place. i'm a member of parliament, and i can't pass judgment. you say there should be no pressure on the ukrainian judicial system and i agree with that. so let's stop this pressure. but, colleagues, make no mistake, if a man has stolen a hundred euros and he is subject to a trial, then a politician who has caused billions of euros of damage to his people should also be subject to a trial. the responsibility cannot be purely political. (the president agreed to answer the question by blue card (rule 149 (8))
mr. tannock, and the bulgarian penal code is from 1968 but is still in force, has not been declared unconstitutional by the bulgarian constitutional court and all provisions in it that relate to the previous communist government have been repealed. this is true in many other eastern european countries. our legislation is still from the time of the communist regimes. i'm not saying that we don't have the right to criticize the judicial system of ukraine. but it is unacceptable to me that a member of the european parliament should stand up and say that someone should be "immediately acquitted". we are not judges, we are lawmakers.
madam president, in two days' time, the bureau of the european people's party will be meeting in sofia. the guests, who are expected to support the ruling gerb party just a week before the presidential and local elections, include mr barroso, mr buzek, and other european commissioners. i leave aside the question of whether such political commitment is permissible for the persons listed. but i would like to ask them from this podium to use their visit to ask some questions. why have incumbent mayors and candidates been subjected to all kinds of pressure from the authorities to refuse to participate in the elections? how is it possible for the minister of the interior to head the ruling party's campaign headquarters, using all the force available against political opponents? why was the opposition's vote suppressed when parliament was dissolved for the period up to the elections? a precedent in the 20 years of democratic history of this country. why were thousands of bulgarians living abroad deprived of the opportunity to vote in the presidential elections, and why is the vote there organized not by constitutionally appointed ambassadors, but by deputies appointed by the foreign minister? i could go on and on. i hope that international observers will give an objective assessment of the state of bulgarian democracy.
madam president, i think that the principle of allowing national parliaments to attack the principle of subsidiarity is not working in practice. so far, two years after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, not once has a sufficiently large number of national parliaments (2/3 of them) objected so that the principle of subsidiarity could be suspended. in fact, it was actually enshrined in the lisbon treaty with the clear understanding that it would not work. you know very well that a parliamentary procedure for taking a decision in one parliament alone takes two, sometimes three months. what's left for 18 parliaments to do that? and the figures the commissioner has presented here are telling: 130 proposals, 60 objections. less than half of the objections to a proposal when 18 objections are required. i think that in subsidiarity the principle should be reversed. first, get the consent of the parliaments, and then proceed to pass the act.
in writing. the vat system has not changed in the last seventeen years. today we need a modern vat framework to meet the challenges facing the european union. european businesses often see existing legislation as an obstacle to the smooth functioning of the european single market. we therefore need to simplify the current rules and reduce the administrative burden in order to provide a better tax environment for businesses in the eu. each year, vat fraud is estimated at between eur 60 and 100 billion. the creation of new tools to control and combat vat fraud at european level is key. another important element is the standardisation of information and the promotion of international transactions within the eu. this will allow for better cooperation between the tax authorities of the member states. lastly, i would like to stress the importance of maintaining the principle of subsidiarity, so that member states can decide on different levels of vat in certain sectors, so that national economic and social characteristics can be taken into account. this will contribute to improving the competitiveness of the european economy as a whole.
in writing. − in the context of the financial crisis, european citizens are facing increasing risks linked to the possibility of financial and insurance institutions going bankrupt. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that consumer confidence must be preserved and that insurance claims guarantee schemes must be made more secure. this would also help to stimulate cross-border competition and accelerate the development of the insurance market in the eu. i share the view that effective and proportionate supervision by national and european supervisory authorities and better cooperation are needed. the testing by member states of insurance claims management schemes and the exchange of information in case the competent authorities detect problems in an insurance company are important for improving coordination and security in the system. i also support measures to increase transparency and consumer awareness. they should be aware of what happens in the event of insolvency of the insurer and the risks involved. information should be easily accessible, comprehensible and complete, and the creation of a single point of contact would facilitate this process. in addition, consumers should not suffer losses in the event of failure by regulatory authorities to exercise adequate supervision of insurers.
in writing. − value added tax is an important source of revenue for member states' and eu budgets and its effectiveness should be increased. to this end, reform of the vat system is needed and that is why i have supported this ep resolution. we now have a sufficient basis for analysing the practices, strengths and weaknesses of the existing system, which allows us to take steps to increase its efficiency and improve its compliance with the requirements of the single market. i share the rapporteur's view that similar goods and services should be treated similarly for vat within the union and i believe that the establishment of a common list of goods and services to benefit from an exemption or reduced rate of vat would be a positive step in this direction. i also support the need to work towards improving coordination and cooperation between member states' tax administrations and towards a wider use of e-government solutions. this would help to optimise operational costs and reduce administrative burdens, as well as to facilitate the fight against tax fraud affecting the financial interests of the community.
i would like to congratulate and thank mr ungureanu for his report. a few days ago we also organised a special hearing in the european parliament on the subject of worker mobility. we heard many different points of view, including the voice of european business. the conclusion i drew from this hearing is one: there is no clear evidence to keep the labour markets closed to bulgarian and romanian citizens yet. i would like to call on the governments of the member states that still impose such restrictions to reconsider their positions before the end of 2011, when the second transitional period of restrictions expires. now is the time to show your true attitude to european integration, to a truly functioning and open european single market. i would like to address commissioner andor and the european commission in particular, to ask you to be really strict and objective in analysing the evidence that member states must present if they wish to continue these restrictions, to tell you that we are counting on you, namely you, to protect one of the fundamental european values freedom and the right to work for all european citizens.
in writing. the right of every european citizen to choose freely where to live and work within the european union is among the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the treaties. unfortunately, it is too rarely used for reasons related to linguistic, social and cultural differences as well as administrative and legal obstacles. the commission's report published in 2008 shows that mobile workers from the countries that joined the eu in 2004 and 2007 have had a positive impact on the economies of the member states and have not caused serious difficulties in their labour markets. today, at the end of 2011, however, bulgarian and romanian citizens continue to face restrictions imposed on them by some of the countries in the union. i expect all the member states to allow bulgarians and romanians access to the labour market as soon as possible. i believe that restricting the mobility of workers and employees is harmful to europe's competitiveness. this stimulates the shadow economy, undeclared work and sham self-employment. in the current economic crisis, the mobility of workers would improve the interaction between labour supply and demand, contributing to the development of the european economy.
i voted for mrs matera's report on the situation of single mothers, but i would like to make some very important points which i think are important to be considered in the future. first of all, i should be given a general definition of the concept of single mother, because at the moment i think there are many cases where women who are not married live with the fathers of their children, but since the definition of a single mother depends on marriage, they acquire this status, they get social rights. i therefore very much agree with the idea in mrs matera's report, which was more about gaining more social rights, more protection in labour law, eliminating discrimination. and i'm going to state my position that i am strongly against providing direct financial or material assistance as an incentive to commit fraud and report single mothers who are not.
in writing. − i supported this resolution because in recent decades a worldwide trend of difficult access to justice has been recognised, driven by the constant increase in the number of cases and their high costs, serious regulatory deficiencies and limitations of the judicial procedure, the difficult application of constantly changing legislation. in this context, there is renewed interest in alternative dispute resolution (adr), triggered by the crisis on the one hand and on the other by the advantages of these methods of out-of-court conflict resolution and, above all, their consensual nature. i share the view that adr mechanisms need to go beyond consumer disputes to include civil and commercial transactions between businesses, as well as family disputes and defamation cases. i support the need for legislative measures to this end.
in writing. − public procurement has a major contribution to making public spending more transparent and to fighting corruption, but it needs to be modernised to improve its efficiency. i supported this resolution because i share the view that eu procurement rules should be simplified to give more opportunities for smes to participate in tenders. i believe that the wider use of e-government will lead to a reduction in the length of procedures and to a reduction in costs for the administration and business, and therefore i believe that more european initiatives in the field of e-procurement are needed. i also share the view that the lowest price should not be the determining factor in the choice of supplier, so that other criteria such as economic, social and environmental benefits can also be taken into account and the life-cycle costs of the goods and services concerned taken into account. steps are also needed to encourage innovative proposals and to ensure a higher quality of implementation.
in writing. − a well-functioning single market for services is an important prerequisite for the recovery and development of the european economy. i supported the resolution on the process of mutual evaluation of the services directive because i believe that it makes a significant contribution to a better understanding of the problems facing the member states and the european commission in the application of community law. this process has allowed a better assessment of the adequacy of the measures taken by each member state and has clarified some ambiguities with regard to the directive. at the same time, i believe that we would have improved results with clearer objectives and wider involvement of stakeholders in the evaluation. i also fully share the view that, in addition to removing administrative barriers, the use of e-government and the provision of information in several languages would greatly facilitate communication between the single points of contact and service providers and would stimulate the development of the single market. i believe that the process of mutual evaluation contributes to a faster and more correct implementation of the provisions of the services directive, which in turn is an instrument to stimulate growth in the european union. i support the view that it is necessary to analyse the possibilities of using this approach in other areas of european legislation.
in writing. – i welcome the efforts of the committee on employment and social affairs in addressing the need for further education and skills training as well as job creation in order to combat rising unemployment rates. education, beginning at a young age, should be a priority for ensuring future employment. education increases human capital and will provide for the rising need for skilled, as opposed to unskilled, workers. member states should learn from one another in order to best provide citizens with proper education. i also propose that skills training programs should be increased in order to give currently unskilled labourers the chance to move into the skilled labour fields, particularly in areas related to the it and health fields, which currently demand more labour. furthermore i stress the importance of working towards job creation in sustainable fields. parliament should work to increase human capital, via education and skills training, and towards creating jobs to enable the eu to stay in line with the 2020 target of 75% employment. the current economic situation should not stop the eu from meeting its current goals and striving towards sustainable growth.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank the minister for his frank response. the reconciliation of work, family and private life is recognised as a key element of achieving one of the eu headline targets of the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore necessary to give priority to addressing barriers to women’s participation in the labour market and men’s more active involvement in caring duties. the report presented by the european institute for gender equality last week, during the meeting of the ministers for family affairs and gender equality in krakow, reveals that women spend three times longer than men on childcare per day. women are still the main carers, both for children and for the dependent elderly, and they are more likely than men to be involved in both paid and unpaid work in all member states. the revision of the 1992 directive on maternity leave is a necessary precondition for achieving the eu 2020 targets. however, as my colleagues have already said, the press recently reported that during the meeting in krakow the ministers unambiguously stated that they were not willing to move forward with the proposal. what we did not hear, either from that meeting or from you, was the ideas of the member states on how to improve the current directive. bearing in mind eu citizens’ worries and concerns on the matter, it would be irresponsible for the council just to shelve this proposal due to its inability to present an alternative. a responsible attitude would define the pragmatic and reasonable outcome of the current situation. i think that compromises from both sides are needed, but this can be achieved only through debates and not by taking the issue off the agenda. in this regard i would like to raise the following question. does the shelving of this proposal mean that the council is satisfied with the rules set out in the current directive, and does it think that they are adequate for achieving the eu 2020 targets as well as dealing with low birth rates and the upcoming demographic challenge? if the answer is no, the council should then present the latest and lowest-common-denominator position. that would be a starting point in order to move forward on this issue.
madam president, i would like to ask the honourable member for his views on the fact that his government is approving an increase, which is more than twice the increase necessary for maternity leave, on a military budget – which is actually intended not only for security but for killing somebody else’s children.
i would like to begin by thanking and congratulating mrs estrela for having defended this very important directive for several years with great determination and tenacity, and i would ask you, mrs estrela, to ignore these attacks on mrs lulling, because she is only expressing her own opinion. no one in this room, i assure you, thinks like her. you have been defending this directive for several years, but the council has not had time to respond to it and adopt it for a year. although our position as the european parliament is still very clear today, we are once again willing to compromise if only to do something good for families and mothers in europe. unfortunately, there's been no response from the ministers. for governments in europe, motherhood is an expense, but for us, it's an investment in the future. in a year or two, europe will have dealt with the economic crisis, but will it be able to deal with the demographic crisis so quickly and easily? better conditions for motherhood are not a policy of financial withdrawal, but an opportunity for a better career, more and more efficient work and better child rearing. and all of these are prerequisites for the competitiveness of the european economy. no more restrictions in europe, because this is a road to nowhere. we need to improve the conditions for motherhood, give courage to families who want to have children, not increase their insecurity and fears. we already have positive examples and this is the practice in bulgaria. for four years, the first year, mothers get ninety percent of their last paycheck, the second year, the minimum wage, and only the third year is free. (the president cut off the speaker)
in my country, we have a saying, "don't split a hair in two". the calls that have been made here, that is to say, the readiness of parliament to negotiate some compromise with the council to reduce maternity leave to under 20 weeks, is a 'hair-splitting'. this leave cannot be less than twenty weeks and that is really not too much to ask, nor is it the minimum requirement. i'll finish what my colleague yotova couldn't say. in bulgaria, 100% paid leave is 410 days, plus another year of minimum wage. i'm expecting my first child myself, and i can tell you that if the amount of fully paid maternity leave was lower, i wouldn't be able to convince my wife to be expecting that child right now. so, mr. chairman of the council, will you put this matter to a vote on the merits, or will the council continue to bully populists?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased today to give my full support to this report which makes considerable progress in the protection of the rights of the child. it insists on more prevention and introduces stricter penalties. i would like to stress the importance of stronger condemnation of those who have abused their position of authority, trust or influence to abuse a child. the report also stresses the follow-up measures for victims and their families. i say this about their families because they are also victims, although indirectly, but they can experience the sexual violence committed against their child as a very deep wound. this directive is a major step forward and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its work to ensure that the child is not left behind. however, i must confess that there is one thing that leaves me with a bitter taste. this is not directly relevant to mrs angelilli's report, it is a more general problem. why does the commission refuse to support the union's accession to the united nations convention on the rights of the child? i have asked a written question on the subject, as have other colleagues. why, with the union now having the legal personality to ratify international treaties, cannot it go further in recognising the rights of the child? the argument that the union is not competent to intervene in this area is not enough for me. this legalistic answer is not viable. the ratification by the union is a strong political message that we must send. if the union is committed to ensuring that the rights of the child are respected, ratification of the convention is necessary, especially since we now have the charter of fundamental rights, in particular article 24, which obliges us to ensure that these rights are respected. the european union must be more bold and up to its new responsibilities.
our first item is the report by iliana malinova iotova, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report on the ombudsman's activities in 2010 [2011/2106 (ini) ] (a7-0285/2011).
the rapporteur. − the office of european ombudsman was created by the maastricht treaty as one of the characteristics of citizenship of the european union. article 24 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the right to complain to the european ombudsman. on 27 september 2010, the institution of the ombudsman celebrated its 15th anniversary and presented a strategy for its development until 2014. the protection of european citizens has changed over the last 15 years thanks to the ombudsman's independence and the democratic scrutiny of the transparency of his work by the european parliament. the experience of these 15 years has enabled the ombudsman to see the main problems in maladministration, structural weaknesses in relations between the institutions and between the institutions and the citizens. with his activities before 2010, mr diamantouros demonstrated a commitment to improving the awareness of european union citizens about their rights and how they can be protected. it is mainly about the right to good administration, the right of access to european union documents, which is sometimes denied even to us meps, the right to participate in dialogue with the european union institutions and the right to turn to the ombudsman. the creation of the ombudsman's interactive portal and website, through which citizens can find out to whom and what they can complain, is a clear demonstration of this. nineteen thousand people took advantage of this service last year. thanks to this portal, complaints to the ombudsman in 2010 were down by 400 compared to the previous year. however, this year the most common complaints were related to transparency and access to information. over 30% of the complaints are in that direction. in the difficult economic conditions in which europe is currently found, euroscepticism is growing in most member states. in times of crisis, more and more countries are looking for ways and citizens are willing to express their civil positions and to express their discontent when their rights are violated. they send their complaints to the parliamentary committee on petitions, which sometimes delays these complaints and petitions by 3-4 years and makes them ineffective. i think that mr diamantouros' work improves the quality of transparency and information for europeans, but as he himself once said: 'i am one and you are more than 700'. so this cause requires the efforts of all. in this context, i would like to note and thank the ombudsman for his good cooperation with the parliamentary committee on petitions. the european ombudsman also works closely with his colleagues from the member states in what is known as the network of ombudsmen. in 2010, 977 complaints were redirected to members of the european network of ombudsmen. in 2010, the ombudsman continued to exercise his powers in an active and balanced manner, as evidenced by the number of inquiries undertaken on the basis of complaints lodged last year - 323, the majority of which concerned the european commission. we therefore urge the commissioner responsible for interinstitutional relations to take action in this respect. an example of the ombudsman's effectiveness is that he forced the medicines agency to give better access to its archives, to its documents. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty in 2009, the european ombudsman's powers have also included the possibility of investigating maladministration in the framework of the common foreign and security policy, and the possibility of presenting special reports to the parliament's committee on petitions when the institutions do not provide satisfactory answers to the complaints made to them. in conclusion, i would like to express once again my support, and i am sure i will not be the only one in this chamber, for the information campaign which mr diamantouros intends to launch in connection with the promotion of the charter of human rights, and i hope that it will be an integral part of a future legislation.
ombudsman. − mr president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to address you. i wish to thank the committee on petitions and especially the chair, ms mazzoni, and the rapporteur, ms iotova. they have offered me valuable support and advice in the report before you today, and i am deeply grateful for that. parliament and the ombudsman both work to ensure that citizens and residents of the eu can enjoy their rights to the full, but do so in different ways. the ombudsman’s mandate is more limited. i can only conduct inquiries into complaints against eu institutions, whilst you can examine what member states are doing as well. furthermore, parliament, as a sovereign political body, can deal with petitions that request changes in the law or new laws. in contrast, my role is more specific: it is to help uncover maladministration and attempt to put it right. maladministration encompasses all kinds of poor or improper administrative behaviour, from discrimination or other violations of fundamental rights to late payments, and from publishing misleading information to failure to reply to correspondence. unlike court rulings, my decisions are not legally binding. however, i use the power of persuasion to achieve friendly solutions with which both sides – that is, the complainant and the european bodies concerned – can be satisfied. the outcome can thus be more flexible and often faster than the courts. after my intervention, institutions and bodies have very often settled bills, paid interest, released documents, remedied injustices and put an end to discrimination. i make efforts to help every complainant who turns to the ombudsman, even in cases when the complaint is not within my mandate. in january 2009, as just mentioned by ms iotova, i launched an interactive guide on my website, which is accessible in all 23 official languages. this guide aims to direct complainants to the body best placed to help them. the number of inadmissible complaints submitted to me has since shown a significant decline. i attribute this decline, at least in part, to the fact that, by using the interactive guide, more citizens are finding the right address to turn to the first time around. i note that since its launch more than 60 000 people have received advice through the guide. reducing the number of inadmissible complaints has been a long-standing demand of parliament, and i wish to register my response to that. we should not underestimate how important it is for citizens to be guided to the most appropriate complaint-handling body from the outset and to be spared the frustrations and delays associated with having to identify the right institution on their own. in contrast to the reduction of the complaints outside my mandate, the numbers of inquiries opened and closed in 2010 – that is, 335 and 326 respectively – remained roughly stable compared to 2009. this trend confirms that more of the people turning to the european ombudsman are doing so for the right reasons. i am pleased to note also that, in 2010, 55% of all investigations were either settled by the institution or resulted in a friendly solution. in the other cases i issued a recommendation that was accepted by the institution, thereby satisfying the complainant, or i did not find an instance of maladministration. only in 33 cases did i issue a critical remark or, in one case, a special report submitted to this august body. the number of critical remarks issued by my office has shown a sustained reduction in recent years. this suggests that the eu institutions are taking a more proactive role in resolving complaints and enabling win-win situations. this is obviously always preferable for the complainant and the institution concerned. in 2010 the most common allegation examined by the ombudsman was lack of transparency in the eu administration. this allegation arose in 33% of all closed inquiries and included refusal of information and access to documents. i note with concern that the number of transparency cases has remained depressingly and consistently high over the past few years. although regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 has been in force for ten years now, it is still puzzling to observe some institutions struggling with the principle enshrined in the regulation: that openness is the basic rule in the eu legal order and secrecy the exception. for my part, i will continue to insist on the fundamental right of access to documents and i will continue to endeavour to raise awareness of the right to address the ombudsman and to petition parliament so that citizens can best seek redress. furthermore, i believe that the eu institutions should not only react properly and in the spirit of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 when receiving requests for access to documents, but that institutions should act proactively – i repeat, proactively – in putting documents into the public domain. i have also taken additional measures to enhance transparency with respect to the ombudsman’s own operations. from the beginning of this year i have started publishing information on my website about all new enquiries into complaints that i open, as opposed to those that i close. there are many other ways in which the institutions and bodies of the eu can become more citizen-friendly. in order consistently to deliver good administration – the key component of being citizen-friendly – institutions and bodies need to nurture a culture of service to citizens. a body that seeks to promote such a culture of service will encourage the members of its staff not only to respect good administration as a legal right but also to be polite, helpful and cooperative in dealing with citizens, willing to explain their activities and the reasoning behind the decisions taken, and ready to accept public scrutiny of their conduct. a concise statement of these and other public service principles would, i believe, help promote citizens’ trust in the european civil service and the eu institutions. i have therefore set myself the task of drafting such a statement of public service principles which the conduct of eu officials should reflect. in order to take account of the best practices which exist in the member states, i asked my national colleagues for information and their views. once that process was completed i launched a public consultation on the draft statement of public service principles earlier this year, to which i have received numerous valuable contributions. next month i shall publish a report on the consultation and its outcome. much more still needs to be done. a recent eurobarometer survey commissioned by the ombudsman and the parliament reveals that one major challenge we face is that most european citizens are not aware of their rights. for example, more than 70% of the 27 000 respondents did not feel sufficiently informed about the charter of fundamental rights. a further 13% had never even heard of the charter. in addition, many citizens do not know where to turn if they encounter problems either with the application of eu law in general or in the exercise of their rights, whether at regional, national or european level. to conclude, although it is clear to me that much has been achieved to date, it is equally clear to me that there is much more work ahead for all of us – ombudsmen, parliament, the other institutions and the european network of ombudsmen – in order to enhance citizens’ trust in the eu and to consolidate a culture of service in the institutions. closer cooperation between all of us, engaging in systematic dialogue, learning from best practices whenever and wherever they can be found, allocating more resources to responding to citizens’ enquiries and complaint handling are all key aspects of building trust, of serving citizens and of helping them enjoy their rights more fully. i am certain that in the years to come we will achieve much more in that direction and, in so doing, we shall make our modest contribution to the deepening of the rule of law and to the enhancement of the quality of democracy. honourable members, i look forward to your remarks, and i welcome the presence of commissioner kroes.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, what a great start to the day: firstly to replace my dear colleague maroš šefčovič; secondly, to sit next to the ombudsman, and thirdly, to be involved in a discussion about a very important issue. i would like to congratulate the honourable member, ms iotova, on her report, which is one of those base elements where we can start the discussion. i welcome this report. as the ombudsman’s report it represents a good start, one which is closer to the european citizen. especially with regard to ms iotova’s report, it offers a clear and exhaustive overview of the activities of the ombudsman – not only for the past year – and is also a very useful tool for the other institutions. let me also take the opportunity to thank the ombudsman personally for his report, which reflects the constructive relations our institutions have built together and which show the outside world that we are working in close cooperation. this does not mean that we always agree 100% on everything but, if that were the case, it would be less challenging. relations between the commission and the ombudsman are very fruitful and very positive. there are some outstanding issues on which both parties are committed to making every effort to reach mutual understanding. since the commission is the main union institution that takes decisions which have a direct impact on citizens, i believe there is nothing unusual in it being the principal object of inquiries. so there is nothing new here and we should not be surprised. as regards cases with critical and further remarks, these are specially registered and closely followed by the ombudsman, who publishes a study every year on each institution’s follow-up to his critical and further remarks. of course we need to be aware that your attention is not confined to the one moment when you make a remark and that the follow-up is also closely monitored. last year the commission was able to follow up 31% of the critical remarks issued by the ombudsman., which represents a considerable proportion. it is worth noting that the number of critical remarks addressed to the commission continues to decrease, representing 12% of the inquiries closed in 2010. if you compare this with 14% in 2009 and 16% in 2008, 12% is not a bad score. it reflects the fruitful efforts by the commission to improve its administration and to develop further the principles of a genuine culture of service. i am aware that one of the ombudsman’s most frequent concerns relates to the alleged lack of transparency of the commission, including the refusal to provide information. i am committed to further tackling such cases. however, i would like to note that in this field the commission thoroughly examines all the inquiries addressed to it by the ombudsman. the ombudsman often closes his inquiries with critical and further remarks because the commission has not respected deadlines during the procedures. that is clear and follows the complaints request for access to a file. the ombudsman points out that a third of the complaints deal with requests for information or for public access to documents. in 2010 he closed 23 inquiries and opened 22 new ones. however, the number of complaints must be seen in perspective. in 2010 the commission handled more than 6 000 requests for access to documents and 5 000 requests were granted. everything is relative, but please take into account that 5 000 requests were granted. the commission took 122 decisions on confirmatory applications, of which 22 led to a complaint to the ombudsman. these figures show that the commission duly respects citizens’ fundamental right of access to documents. regarding the recast of the regulation, the commission submitted a proposal in 2008 which is still at first reading in parliament. no comment, only a note: with a view to complying with the lisbon treaty, the commission submitted a second proposal in march this year, and, as i can tell by his body language, the ombudsman welcomes this move to achieve rapid compliance with the treaty by extending the right of access to all institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the eu. as regards the ombudsman’s special report sent to the parliament in 2010 and regarding a complaint on access to commission documents – the ‘porsche’ affair – i regret that this special report was sent shortly after the commission had taken a final decision on the case. we are collegial and we are open to each other, so i imagine that from our side we are allowed to make that kind of remark. nevertheless, i acknowledge that the time taken to reach that decision was excessive, even if it was due to the failure of the third party to respond to the commission’s proposal. the picture tends to be clearer when we have all the facts than when we do not. i would like to stress that the commission is fully committed to sincerely cooperating with the ombudsman and that it does not have any intention of obstructing the ombudsman’s work in any way. i would not dare to say anything different. this is maroš’s text and i am also completely committed to it. finally, the commission – like the iotova report – also encourages the ombudsman to continue to promote the european network of ombudsmen, with a view to developing a comprehensive database and better informing eu citizens about the apportioning of responsibilities between the european ombudsman, the national ombudsmen and parliament’s committee on petitions. the commission looks forward to the ombudsman’s statement of public service principles, which was recently the subject of a public consultation open to national ombudsmen, colleagues and other interested parties. the commission contributed to this public consultation by stressing that public service principles are well settled in staff regulations and in different commission codes, such as the commission’s code of good administrative behaviour. the commission will always be willing to further reinforce its culture of service and ensure the coherence of its actions in those fields which are most widely covered by the ombudsman’s inquiries.
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, i would like to congratulate rapporteur yotova on a good and comprehensive report. mr diamantouros, your role is of paramount importance in strengthening the citizens' trust in our institutions, because we all must never lose sight of the principle of good administration and we must never take success for granted and stop fighting, working ever better for our citizens. this is why the annual reports on the european ombudsman's activities are so important for improving the work of our institutions for the benefit of european citizens. i'd like to draw your attention to a few points. in particular, 2010 was marked by the re-election of mr diamantouros as european ombudsman, the institution's 15th anniversary, the new vision of the annual report, and a new strategy. all of this indicates a lot of experience and a desire to move forward. i would like to take account of the decrease in the number of complaints compared to 2009, but also the continuing trend of a large number of complaints relating to transparency and access to information. let's not forget the importance of transparency. transparency is the rule, confidentiality is the exception. the treaty of lisbon also gave the european ombudsman another important tool in his hands - the charter of fundamental rights of the european union became legally binding in most member states and the right to good administration acquired legal value. let the european ombudsman make the most of this new solid legal basis to do his job successfully. good cooperation with the new european external action service and the european council is equally important. it is important that the european ombudsman continues to support the work of the european network of ombudsmen, to continue to create a comprehensive database so that european citizens are better informed about the division of responsibilities between the european ombudsman, the national ombudsmen and our committee on petitions, because we all defend the interests of european citizens and have a responsibility to strengthen trust in the european institutions.
i would also like to congratulate mrs yotova on her thorough work on this report. he followed the work of mr diamantouros after his re-election in 2010 and in particular after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which extended the mandate of the european ombudsman. the report shows that european citizens are increasingly aware of their fundamental right to good administration, as guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights. i also recommended to the european ombudsman, on the occasion of the institution's 15th anniversary, to launch a new strategy by 2014 that focuses on promoting a culture of service in the administration. i am pleased to note that the new member states were among the top 10 complaints in 2010, with bulgaria in seventh place, which clearly shows that bulgarian citizens are seeking protection for their human rights. i believe that the european ombudsman should support the national ombudsmen of the new member states in strengthening their capacity. the problem of access to information is of course also fundamental and key, and the european institutions, and the commission in particular, should apply the principles of good governance.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i really appreciate all the interventions. i would like to ask you a favour, mr president. could you pass to two members of this parliament my answers, as they have left the room? one is mr chountis, who mentioned that the commission has an old-fashioned view on democracy. i do not buy that, and i think that the opposite is true. certainly, talking about my colleague maroš šefčovič, he is very active and he is in close cooperation with the ombudsman, so no old-fashioned views at all. i am not saying that we cannot just do more, but that is at stake. i really agree with ms mazzoni, who made a statement that is closer to reality, talking about good faith and goodwill. the other issue that is quite interesting: mr migalski made a remark about freedom of the media, and i have good news for him. just ten days ago i set up a high-level group for the freedom of the media and pluralism and asked them to produce a report within a year, and i am certain that we will be back in parliament with that report. by the way, ‘high-level’ in this context really means high-level. the chair is taken by ms vīķe-freiberga, the former president of latvia, and the group includes ms herta däubler, the former justice minister of germany; professor maduro, the former advocate-general of the european court of justice; and ben hammersley, a very famous journalist. so i am looking forward to that result, and i am certain that the honourable member and his colleagues will also be interested. just a couple of remarks about the lack of transparency of the commission which a couple of your honourable members have touched on. i got that message; i do not agree. the commission thoroughly examines all the inquiries addressed to it by the ombudsman: there can be no doubt about that. the commission grants requests for access to documents in more than 80% of cases. in only 2% of cases the applicant makes a confirmatory application, and these applications (which is quite remarkable) are generally made by law firms. speaking about my former life, my experience of law firms is that they are very constructive and also very active, and this is a diplomatic way of saying what is at stake. ngos and lobbyists are also quite active in that field. the main reason – and i would like you to pay attention to this – for refusing access to documents is to protect ongoing investigations and the commercial interests of economic operators. these are legitimate interests which may prevent disclosure of documents. so this is not a lack of transparency; it reflects the need to strike the right balance between countervailing interests. on the subject of the deadlines laid down in regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, a significant number of requests – particularly those made by law firms (to mention them again: after all, this is their bread and butter) and ngos – concern large volumes of documents or complete files of tens of thousands of pages, and i have experience with that. these are truckloads of documents, so to say. all those documents must be assessed before a decision on disclosure can be taken, and it is quite obvious that such an analysis cannot be completed within the timeframes of the regulation i mentioned before.
ombudsman. − mr president, let me first say three things. i wish to thank all the members of parliament for their very positive, warm appraisal and approval of my report. i am deeply grateful for the very broad positive response that i have received. i am deeply grateful for the response that i have received concerning my efforts to promote a culture of service and for the work that i am trying to do to promote public service principles. so i am very much in your debt for that, and i also want to thank ms mcguinness for her specific report and reflection on my own work. the second thing that i wish to emphasise is to try and rectify what appears to be a misunderstanding, and i take responsibility for what must be a misunderstanding. many members of this body are under the assumption that the decline that has been registered in my complaints is an indication of some kind of deterioration. let me just be very clear. over the years this parliament has been insisting that the ombudsman should try to reduce the number of inadmissible complaints that come to him. we have now reduced that number by 25%. the decline is therefore a success, due to the interactive guide introduced in 2009 which has helped 20 000 citizens to avoid going to the wrong place in the first instance and to be helped with where to go. so may i please insist that the decline is in fact not a failure but a success, and i am perfectly happy to explain that. concerning the budget, let me just point out that both in 2009 and 2011 i asked for no budget increase and no increase in my staff, precisely because i am trying to be in line with austerity. if we look at figures in terms of the budget, then i ask that we also take into account the 10 000 (more or less) requests for information and the 20 000 people who have used the interactive guide, to take into account the kind of work that the ombudsman is doing that goes way beyond the individual complaints that are being handled. this having been said, let me also thank ms kroes for her own remarks, and let me just try and respond to two things. first of all, the ombudsman needs to be – and should be – fair, and fairness means allocating responsibility where appropriate. it is indeed the case that the commission, being the largest institution of the union, will necessarily receive the largest number of complaints. this is not an indication of failed administration at that level by the commission. this notwithstanding, of course there are problems, and in fact i wish to confirm that. this having been said, commissioner, let me just clarify the point concerning the special report last year. the special report came to you not because of the substance of the case but because of the failure of the commission to cooperate with me in good faith and sincerely. this was the very first time in 15 years i had had to do it, and it regrettably had to do with the commissioner, who at that time had left. because of the substance, yes, but i did not submit it after it had been closed, because i was addressing the procedural problem of 15 months’ delay. i want to be clear about that. finally i want to thank you for your references to the principles of public service. i can tell this body that i will be issuing a leaflet in the next month that will be addressed to every single member of the staff of the european institutions. this is a guide to help them with how to deal with complaints and, therefore, how to help citizens. i am moving forward with this, it is ready and is in fact being distributed. ms auken, thank you for your question, i will look into the matter and i will provide you with figures. i have to look into that. the question about public media was addressed by the commissioner. let me say to her that, if her expert group is in need of further information, i remain at her disposal. a final point: complicated but succinct. there are 500 million citizens in the european union: that is correct. but how many of them need to have contact with the european institutions is really the critical question. i suggest that the vast majority of citizens of the european union do not need to have contact with the european institutions and therefore to have complaints that will come to me, primarily because the bread and butter issues that have to do with the ombudsman are at national level, involving the welfare state. we do not have issues about health, education, prisons, police, social security or retirement, therefore the vast majority of the 500 million – mercifully – do not need to come to me. for that very reason i would like to at least inject this corrective into the deliberations of this body. finally, let me reiterate that i am enormously grateful for the support that this body has given me over the years and for its continuing support to me for resources and for my budget. i shall continue to do my very best to help parliament to help me apply and promote good administration. i look forward to working with it and working with the other institutions, including the commission.
the rapporteur. - i would like to begin by expressing my deepest gratitude to all the colleagues who have taken part in today's rich discussion. in fact, it is perhaps the only report in the european parliament that is directly addressed to 500 million european citizens. this shows not only the high level of interest in the ombudsman's work but also the awareness of the importance of this work and the responsibilities it entails. the very fact that several colleagues have asked for an increase in the ombudsman's powers, including freedom of the media, is a clear indication of this and i very much hope that together with the working group that commissioner kroes has just announced, we will have the opportunity to achieve something more in this direction, as the deficit in media freedom in europe is really taking on alarming proportions. there is much to be done in terms of public democracy in europe. you see that even the wonderful initiative enshrined in the lisbon treaty, the citizens' initiative for new european legislation, is failing and cannot be implemented for the second year running. the ombudsman's work is therefore of paramount importance, as is the work of the parliamentary committee on petitions and complaints. i am really sorry that commissioner šefčovič is not here today, because he could have heard a lot of concrete and important proposals from the meps. i hope you will convey to him all our suggestions and comments. i wish the commission and the ombudsman every success in their noble work.
mr president, many will say that the major decisions in the european union today are related to the crisis. they have a reason. but let's not forget that one of the reasons for it is the lack of respect for the rules. breaking them has long-term, even unforeseeable effects. so we have to look beyond just finance and economics. i therefore warn that in violation of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, many citizens were deprived of the right to participate in the last elections in bulgaria. people who were eligible could not vote because they were unjustifiably excluded from the electoral rolls. this fact was publicly acknowledged by a number of administrative bodies, but to this day it is not clear whose mistakes, or perhaps intent, and no apology or sanction followed. we must call from this platform for transparency on all facts and for swift action against violators in defense of civil rights.
mr. chairman, it is with great regret that only from this rostrum here i can inform the public about the totalitarian way of governing the republic of bulgaria. the prime minister has established a governance model based on full control of the media and freedom of speech. anyone who has a position different from his is compromised and brutally crushed. the media is censored and information is filtered profane. only events favorable to the rulers are reflected. all other incidents have no resonance and therefore remain completely incomprehensible to the bulgarian citizens. the prime minister is acting arrogantly like a man who thinks that law and morality don't apply to him. he determines everything personally, including plainly telling individuals where to invest money to gain his favor. bulgaria seems to be in need of an arab spring. i am convinced that none of us wants a hugo chavez-type government in the european union. for a democratic state in the 21st century, a member state of the european union, this kind of governance is completely unacceptable. thank you for your time and attention. i think it is time to show european citizens that everyone is equal before european law and our voice cannot be silenced here.
mr. chairman, distinguished colleagues, for the first time in 22 years, the bulgarian citizens witnessed poorly organized and compromised presidential and local elections, filled with unprecedented violations of the law and unconstitutional actions. the principles of pluralism and universal and equal suffrage, which are essential for a democratic and european state, have been trampled underfoot. over 45 thousand bulgarian citizens who were on the so-called 'ban lists' were deprived of the right to vote. in many sections, the use of transparent ballots violated the secrecy guaranteed by the constitution and the electoral code. the extremely high rate of voter buying signals, the coercion of people to vote under threat of dismissal and other forms of controlled voting are unacceptable in a member state of the european union. violations were also found in 44 percent of polling stations by osce and pace observers. the responsibility of the rulers for holding elections in this way calls into question bulgaria's european future and is a serious threat to its democratic development.
mr president, in bulgaria, elections were held for the country's president and for local authorities. after years of difficult transition, the country's fragile democracy is once again at stake. the buying of votes, the controlled voting by the authorities, the police, the political pressure, the use of people from the criminal contingent to intimidate, the misuse of ballots - all this became the emblem of the electoral process. it was an unprecedented intervention by the executive branch. the minister of the interior has headed the political staff of the ruling party. almost half a million bulgarian citizens entered the 'prohibited lists' without the right to vote. one of the greatest achievements of democracy - the right to free choice - has been violated. today's election is being contested by all parties. for the first time since the democratic changes in bulgaria, the opposition is calling for the annulment of the presidential elections. the prevailing opinion is that she won the election but lost the count. today, president barroso called for deepening democracy as a guarantee of real integration into the european union. if we don't stop the war on democracy today, then tomorrow xenophobia, populism and the trampling of human rights will have new, larger territories. so we're still waiting for the commission's assessment of the bulgarian elections, in which chairman barroso and several commissioners have unambiguously sided with the ruling party.
in writing. demographic change is having a major impact on the economic and social situation in europe, and tackling its negative consequences is one of the main challenges facing the eu. the ageing population requires adequate measures to increase the opportunities for older people to participate actively in public life, to use their knowledge and experience and to ensure their dignified existence. at the same time, it is also important to strengthen support for women and young people by providing them with better access to training, qualifications and labour market integration and to ensure a balance between personal and professional life. efforts are also needed to improve living and employment conditions in all regions and to promote their specific potential in order to avoid population concentration in some and depopulation in others. opportunities to limit the negative effects of demographic change should be analysed and exploited, including with the support of cohesion policy instruments. good coordination between measures financed by the esf, the erdf and the eafrd would help considerably to address the problems. i believe that the regions most affected need additional technical assistance to ensure sufficient capacity to implement structural fund projects.
in writing. – i welcome the initiative against poverty and social exclusion, and the eu’s commitment to fighting poverty within europe. at this time of financial difficulty especially, it is important that the eu does not forget about those most in need in our society. poverty is an issue that must be combated through cooperation between member states and the eu. at member state level, nations should consider a wide range of areas, including particular emphasis on education and health, in order to reduce both current and future poverty. job creation and training should be considered to help those currently struggling below the poverty line. further investment in education at all levels should be incorporated to prepare future generations to stay out of poverty. likewise, health, sanitation and other concerns related to individuals’ well-being must be addressed. the eu as a whole needs to address poverty through ambitious leadership such as setting the 2020 target of liberating 20 million people from poverty. we, as europeans, need to seek justice for all by reducing poverty in the eu and working towards equal opportunities for all, in order to successfully provide citizens with the basic human dignity and rights provided within our treaties.
in writing. − the insolvency legislation varies widely between member states and i therefore believe that the report containing recommendations to the commission on insolvency proceedings in the framework of european company law is essential for its harmonisation at european union level. the insolvency regulation states that the state of the establishment of the proceedings determines the conditions, in particular the types of debtors that are eligible, the property assets that are included in the insolvency estate and the treatment of the assets. i share the rapporteur's view that a legislative initiative is needed to harmonise these aspects so that there is greater legal certainty from the outset of the procedure. under the insolvency regulation, the lodging, establishment and acceptance of claims are governed by the law of the state in which the proceedings are opened, as are claims which have been accepted as insolvency claims. i support the view that such harmonisation of claims would improve legal certainty for creditors. i agree that the establishment of an eu register is necessary to enable creditors and courts to determine whether insolvency proceedings have been opened in another member state, their terms and other details of the claims presented.
in writing. − the single market is one of the european union's greatest achievements and consumer protection policy is an integral part of it. i have supported this resolution because i believe that ensuring the health and safety of european citizens, promoting sustainable consumption and increasing the choice and quality of products and services are important for all of us. i believe that a unified strategic approach and better coordination between policies are needed to support the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives, given that consumer confidence is one of the main drivers of economic development. i believe that international cooperation and exchange of information with non-eu countries, as well as improving the effectiveness of the rapex rapid alert system, are essential to ensure better consumer protection. a significant proportion of european citizens are still not well aware of consumer protection legislation and it is very important to take measures to raise their awareness of their rights and obligations and to ensure that they are respected. i share the view that vulnerable categories of persons should be treated as special protection. i find that empowering consumers is a key step to achieving smarter and more sustainable policies.
in writing. − the situation of the eu beekeeping sector is worrying. the death of bees has negative consequences for biodiversity, agriculture, rural development... it is time to take measures - measures to protect bee health, measures to stimulate and support beekeepers. first, we need to combat the increased mortality of bees. the trend is towards a decline in pollinator species. if we allow this trend to continue, we risk that one day farmers in the eu will be forced, like those in other parts of the world, to resort to human-assisted pollination. that would lead to an increase in their costs, and at least we want that. now is the time to insist on special support for beekeepers under direct payments. the cap is in the process of reform. my request is in line with the logic of the new cap, which will be greener. the commission should consider the possibility of establishing a specific scheme to support beekeepers under the direct payment scheme. let's stimulate beekeeping in the eu by creating a beehive payment scheme. let's get young people into the beekeeping sector and last but not least, let's reward beekeepers for their contribution to biodiversity conservation and agricultural productivity.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu has set itself the goal of being a leader in the fight against climate change and it is delivering on that commitment. at the same time, we cannot tackle climate challenges alone. unfortunately, to date, our competitors russia, china and the united states have not joined in the effort. we haven't been able to convince them, and there's no real chance of that happening at the durban conference, with many analysts predicting another failure there. recent projections suggest that if current emissions levels are maintained and no action is taken, the threshold for limiting warming to 2 ̊c will be exceeded within this decade. isn't it time we thought about a plan b for the union, new ways to attract those who will be accumulating carbon dioxide in the atmosphere in the coming years? but let us not accept the excuses of the developing countries and our competitors that the eu must pay because this is where the industrial revolution and the dumping took place in the past. the new industrial tigers are already emitting such levels that they will soon surpass our historical cumulative emissions. let us also think in the negotiations about a higher competitiveness of our economy, which will compete on a global level with these competitors.
mr president, i would like to thank the court of auditors for its analysis in the parliament section of this year’s annual report. in relation to the parliament’s discharge, i would like to raise several issues for the parliament’s consideration in today’s discussion. firstly, i would like to discuss the publications of the internal auditors for the financial year 2010. it is regrettable that this year reports were not made available on time to members of the committee on budgetary control since previous years’ reports clearly represented an added value for the ep discharge procedure. secondly, there was a lack of information about the previous years’ status of parliament’s accounts. having available data for previous years will help us, through comparisons, to improve our data analysis and finally improve the quality of our recommendations. third, the question of security still represents a major issue for many meps. however we still lack enough details on the progress of the global security concept. what other concrete measures and what steps will be followed to implement an efficient security system for all of us? fourth, an important issue mentioned in the court of auditors’ annual report is the question of visitors’ groups and the methodology for calculation of the subsidy schemes for these groups. i believe we still need to improve the process through a more transparent and effective reimbursement system. of course, these are not all the issues that i would like to mention here today. we will discuss all of them in more detail in committee, but i want to highlight that, in these difficult times of budget constraints and challenges, everybody has to make their utmost effort to save eu taxpayers’ money. we rely very much on the european court of auditors to provide us with high quality information about the spending of all eu institutions, including the spending of the european parliament. we represent the voice of the citizens, but we are also accountable to those citizens for the way we spend their money.
in writing. the recent turmoil in the european economic and financial scene has shown once again that the efforts of individual countries are not enough to stabilise european financial markets. today we are not talking about individual public debt problems, but we are facing a systemic crisis that affects all citizens in the eu countries. at this difficult time, europe must be united, more than ever, and not succumb to populist voices calling for the break-up of the eurozone. only together can we meet the challenges of the world around us. the european institutions must consolidate their role as a unifier and use the crisis as an opportunity to build a solid legal framework for economic governance. i call on the commission to implement the measures of the economic governance package as soon as possible and to present other european instruments to help financial stability in the eu. non-euro area countries must be involved on an equal footing with other countries in decision-making on the future of the union and must not be isolated from the processes. this is the path europe must take to avoid a two-speed europe that will be detrimental to the european project in the long run.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2010. this comprehensive report recalls the central role of the jpa, particularly following the 2010 revision of the cotonou partnership agreement and the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the pap is an essential player in north-south relations. whether it is the european development fund (edf), the negotiation of economic partnership agreements (epas) or the monitoring and follow-up of regional strategy papers (rsps), the joint parliamentary assembly is always at the heart of the processes. i would like to stress the importance of involving national parliaments more closely in the democratic process, in the preparation of the dsrs and the edf. i would also like to stress the importance of the joint election observation missions and the pap investigation missions. these missions bring real added value to the field. we need to promote them more. we must continue to make the app a body that can live up to the ambitions we have set for it.
mr president, i would like to welcome the motion for a resolution that has been tabled. we place great hopes in the development of technology, and in particular the internet, to rebuild the european economy, and at the same time we must not forget that the internet is already an environment that guarantees both the rights and freedoms of european citizens. and a lot of new media is moving in. so when we talk about net neutrality, i think there are two things that need to be very clear. first, internet providers should not restrict in any way access to the internet and the use of certain information. on the other hand, however, it must be possible to manage the internet well, so that there are no congestion and no interruptions. i fully expect the european commission and berec (body of european regulators for electronic communications) to be able to do their job and strike that balance, including by including these issues in the future cybersecurity strategy.
mr president, today's debate is about how much and how roma policy is being implemented in the member states. in its strategy, the european commission has called for national concepts and plans to tackle these problems by the end of this calendar year. unfortunately, the policy in this area is still only on paper and the absence of commissioner redding today is further evidence of the commission's distancing itself from this policy. the adopted national strategies do not reflect the specificities of roma problems in the member states and are only a formal translation of the framework with the four key areas education, health, employment and housing. in fact, instead of genuine integration, some governments in europe are pursuing a policy of increasingly isolating the roma population because they are cheap votes in elections. there is no firm position against political formations that openly preach xenophobia and discrimination. the inaction of the institutions provokes ethnic hatred and tension, which has unpredictable consequences, as happened recently in bulgaria. the european media were really on fire then, but the commission remained silent. and my question today is: will there be sufficient precise criteria and control by the european commission and the council to assess the member states in the spring of 2012 within the framework of the roma strategy?
member of the commission. − madam president, i am delighted to have this opportunity to have an exchange of views before the final vote on the proposal for a council decision concerning the framework programme of the euratom programme for 2012 and 2013. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr březina, for this excellent and enriching document. i would also like, as he did, to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the committee on industry, research and energy who contributed, and also those of the committee on budgets who delivered its opinion. parliament has been showing great interest in this whole issue of research activity funded under the euratom treaty. the commission welcomes these important and useful reports. i wish to underline that the report on the framework programme, and the other reports, recognise the importance of research funded under the euratom treaty for vital objectives such as enhancing the safety of nuclear energy and improving the management of nuclear waste. each member state, as mr březina rightly said, is free to determine its own energy supply mix, and some of the largest eu countries do use nuclear energy, but some of the consequences of those choices do not stop at one’s own borders. in the current european and international context, europe certainly needs more, not less, eu-level funding for research into nuclear safety and security, and this is the focus of the framework programme. as the rapporteur correctly underlined, this proposal is coherent with the overall political strategy of the european union, as expressed in particular through the europe 2020 and the energy 2020 strategies, the set-plan and the european sustainable nuclear industrial initiative. the aim is to work towards a more sustainable energy mix for the future, and this programme contributes to that effort. giving a strong priority to nuclear safety and security in the programme is a point of convergence between the three institutions. the council has already clearly given its orientation, the parliament is now doing so, and the commission shares this view and will rigorously apply it in the implementation of the programme. the report recommends measures for the simplification of the implementation of research funding, and i could not agree more with the parliament that this simplification is absolutely essential. as you know, this is the clear direction we are taking, especially in the context of preparing horizon 2020. however, some practical results of our simplification policy are already visible in this proposal. in particular, it integrates a number of measures adopted by the commission decision last january to cut red tape through simplification. let me also address your recommendation for the focus areas on which the framework programme should concentrate its efforts. i have already mentioned the nuclear safety and security aspect. beyond that, the commission agrees that most of the areas listed in your reports are of major importance, such as radiation protection – a research area that is also important beyond the energy sector, in particular in the field of medicine. training will also be a principle activity of this programme, since the eu urgently needs to address some human capital issues within this sector. while implementing the programme, the commission will certainly give priority to these areas to the extent allowed by the availability of funds and to the overall priority of safety. this report also supports funding for research activities in the field of fusion energy, including the iter project. fusion is a promising research field that aims to provide a totally new energy source for the future. this programme seeks to pave the way for the success of iter and establishes a set of accompanying measures to ensure that europe will continue to be the major player in this field. prominent among these measures is the funding of jet, located in the uk – a facility that is set to make major scientific contributions to iter. regarding iter specifically, this report also contains parliament’s position regarding the financing of this project for 2012 and 2013. the commission welcomes this position and takes note of the ongoing negotiations to reach an interinstitutional agreement on this proposal. it is absolutely urgent, as the house knows, that this decision be taken as soon as possible. as long as a decision is not taken, the framework programme cannot be adopted. that creates uncertainty for a lot of researchers all around europe who do not know if they will continue to receive funding from 1 january. i am thinking in particular about those employed in jet. europe cannot afford to lose these researchers or lose their knowledge and their competences. we also need this decision to maintain our credibility vis-à-vis our international partners. for example, tomorrow the european commission will represent the eu at an iter council meeting with our international partners, while the next trialogue meeting takes place on friday. europe fought for years to be the host of this project and now, after more than one year of debate, we have not yet been able to take the financing decision needed to bring this project forward. it is difficult to explain this to our international partners and i urge the house therefore, on the basis of tomorrow’s vote, to strike a deal with the council as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the funding of research under the euratom framework programme should continue in 2012-13 for at least the following reasons: first, research is aimed at improving the safety of nuclear installations, both current and future fourth-generation reactors - an area in which europe has the highest standards and needs to maintain its leadership. second, these funds will help to improve nuclear technology in medicine, where one of its most serious applications is radiation therapy. the need for their useful application in this field can hardly be doubted. thirdly, we have already started concrete research projects of key importance for europe that will contribute to resource efficiency and to meeting short and long-term energy and environmental objectives, which we have not given up on. and fourth, we need to be consistent in implementing our decisions, as is our commitment to the iter fusion project. it's important that we don't cut off its funding, because we're aiming to find one of the possible future energy sources -- one that's both safe, sustainable, low-carbon, environmentally friendly. the scale of most nuclear research projects is such that few member states could provide the necessary resources and expertise on their own. yes, we have economic problems, but we cannot afford the luxury of losing years of hard work and advantages that we still have. we need to think about social progress and the debt crisis, but we also need to take a clear account of the contribution of nuclear energy to the competitiveness of the european economy, the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and the security of energy supply.
author. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate and resolution today are based on the specific cases of the bloggers alaa abd el-fattah and maikel nabil sanad. we, as representatives of 500 million european citizens, demand their immediate release. but these cases are symptomatic of the stage egypt is at. we're getting a lot of reports and analyses of pressure and harassment on journalists, human rights defenders, activists. more than 12,000 civilians have been tried by military tribunals since march of this year. the election process begins, and the country is still implementing emergency legislation that gives special rights to the military and military tribunals. we still don't know what exactly happened on october 9th in cairo and who is to blame for the 25 lives lost. the egyptian authorities owe a response first and foremost to their own people, but also to us europeans, who continue to look with hope, sympathy and readiness to support egypt. we know very well from our own history that the road to democracy is long, complicated, involves many internal tensions and conflicts. the removal of mubarak can be compared to a strong earthquake that displaces layers, changes the terrain, opens old wounds and creates new tensions. the aftershocks, we know, are going to be a lot. but we want to make sure that the direction taken in the spring towards democracy, the protection of human rights, social progress, will be preserved and egypt will walk more and more confidently on it. so we express our solidarity with all those who are working for this today in egypt.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, i am sure that today's sitting would have been much more solemn if the debate had not concentrated on the economic, financial and monetary problems of the european union beforehand. i even think that if the citizens of croatia had listened to some of the speeches of my colleagues before, they would have considered whether to join the european union. at the same time, croatia's accession to the european union is a great success for both the country and the european union. i think that croatia is joining us at a very important moment for us, which will perhaps make us think that the situation in the european union is not as tragic and difficult as some try to represent it, that our union has a future and continues to be attractive. i would like to mention here a statement by an official from another candidate country who said: 'you keep talking about how hard it is for you, but you don't know what it is like to be outside the european union and have to face this severe crisis.' i believe that the european parliament will vote by a large majority on croatia's accession to the european union, as the foreign affairs committee has already done. i think that from now on croatia's task should be to work with the member states, hoping that the timetable for ratifying the treaty will not be broken and that croatia can join as planned. we are pleased that mr swoboda, representing the socialist and democratic group, has done his job successfully and has brilliantly helped croatia to get to this point. i want to highlight something from his report: citizen participation. this is something extremely important and we hope that the referendum will be with high participation of citizens and will be sufficiently positive (i mean the referendum in croatia). finally, if i may, one sentence in reply to mr. posselt: croatia had to go through stricter requirements, but this allows it to enter the european union without the monitoring mechanisms that still plague bulgaria and romania. success to croatia!
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, almost three years after the launch of the eu strategy on combating hiv/aids in the eu and neighbouring countries, we must admit that, even within the european union, we are far from reaching the objective of this year’s world aids day of ‘getting to zero’, which refers to zero new hiv infections, zero discrimination and zero aids-related deaths. progress still needs to be made, whether in prevention, early diagnosis or timely access to treatment. the situation within our union is even more worrying in certain regions, notably eastern europe, while at the same time the disease tends to be forgotten in the minds of people and policymakers. thirty years after the first detection of aids, it is still crucial to underline the importance of greater awareness-raising and information, the need for strengthened and targeted prevention policies and the need for governments in the eu to remain committed. commissioner, we welcome the commission’s commitment and continuous effort in implementing its strategy to combat hiv/aids, but we hope that you will make clear to member states that having a strategy just on paper is not enough. even during a time of crisis, national aids programmes need to be effectively financed and implemented. let us also look at the reality and focus on the right priorities. there is no room for taboo or forbidden topics. it is crucial that member states ensure that all national aids programmes and strategies develop strong linkages between sexual and reproductive health and hiv/aids. finally, let me say a word about the resolution that we will be voting on today and which has been broadly supported by all groups within the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. yes, there are vulnerable groups that are more at risk, notably young people, men who have sex with men, and injecting drug users, which deserve all our attention and for which targeted strategies should be developed and reinforced. these groups become more vulnerable when subjected to social exclusion, stigmatisation and discrimination, from which people living with hiv are too often suffering. it is certainly not by denying the existence of these groups or by refusing to speak about anti-discrimination campaigns that we will succeed in our continuous fight against hiv/aids. i therefore hope that all members of this house will abstain from ideological consideration and will support the resolution as a whole. today is world aids day, an occasion to recall and maintain our consistent and unambiguous commitment in combating hiv/aids in europe and beyond. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, i agree absolutely with mrs roth-berendt. it is crucial that we use all the available means and political tools to implement our strategy, but also that we make it a reality and make it work. we have to use the opportunities presented by e-health, innovation and partnership, ict enhancement, and health technology and assessment. all this together will help us actually deliver because – as i said at the beginning – we have failed. it is crucially important to have transparency on the flows of money dedicated to certain priorities and to see what the added value is of that money, those priorities and this decision-making process. we in this house have been aware of all the lobbying for different priorities which are not important for society or for european citizens, but which are important for certain groups of lobbyists. so let us now do something on behalf of, and to the benefit of, our citizens.
in writing. – i stand behind this resolution and the effort to bring member states together in order to address serious issues, such as the prevalence of hiv and aids in the eu and nearby nations. this report accurately points out that disease knows no borders. in the same way, we as members of the eu need to look past our national differences in order to make a positive impact on europe as a whole. the prevalence of hiv/aids in eu member states as well as surrounding nations is a serious matter with over 2.2 million people in the european region suffering from the disease. together we can fight this life-threatening disease and help alleviate the harm it causes to those who suffer from it. i propose that in order to truly fight the ongoing epidemic of hiv/aids in europe, we focus on not only treatment but also disease prevention. it is important for the eu to work together, pool research and resources, and then to branch out in order to meet specific needs of various nations and regions. only through these united efforts can we seriously combat the danger that hiv/aids presents to our society.
in writing. − i supported this resolution as tackling early school leaving is one of the necessary steps to reduce unemployment, increase employment and prevent the loss of social and economic potential for the eu. i believe it is important to work both towards keeping pupils in school and to give those who have left school prematurely a second chance. this will enable young people to participate fully in public life and reduce the risk of social exclusion. i share the view that a stronger focus is needed on vulnerable groups and on the population living in poorer and remote areas, as they are the most affected by the problem. a study in bulgaria shows that the main reasons for children's dropping out of school are not related to their reluctance but to the educational and social status of their parents. this type of problem requires increased coordination between institutions, improved educational support, social services and additional support for families. i believe that providing equal opportunities and access to high quality education for people from all groups will contribute to growth in europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would like to say that the agreement to provide additional funds for iter for the next two years was an extremely difficult decision. i would like to congratulate both the rapporteur, mr böge, and the polish presidency for having helped to achieve this (again, very difficult and compromising) agreement. i know there are differences of opinion in parliament about this project and its future. but this is one of the big and promising scientific projects that could lead to a breakthrough in science and in particular in energy, which the european union has already committed itself to. we must be frank: no major scientific project of this size can be funded without a firm, long-term financial commitment from the european union. we have found a fair, acceptable agreement on several elements: the need for an additional 1.3 billion euros; funding of 940 million in 2012. but the funds of 360 million in the next year 2013 remain to be specified. and i want to make it very clear that we will stick to what we have agreed with the council under the terms that are agreed in the joint text. i do not accept the unilateral declaration by six member states that these funds should be secured solely by the reallocation of competitiveness funds. i want to tell the commission right now that if it proposes such a budget for 2013, it will be wrong and it will not be adopted.
mr. chairman, a few sessions ago, we discussed that in 2013, the free food program would be unfunded. the funds we are preparing to give now to iter can finance this same programme, on which tens of millions of pensioners and other vulnerable europeans depend for five years to come. yes, project iter is important. but i want to emphasize something that the commissioner said, that this project is experimental. that means that we're pouring billions and billions into it right now, which could ultimately lead to absolutely zero outcome, absolutely no benefit from this project. i therefore believe that this new proposal is unbalancing the union's social and industrial activities, which is wrong and should not be done. i also want to call on the scientific community in these times of crisis, when we're all making cuts, raising the retirement age, cutting benefits, to limit those and fit them into their budgets.
mr president, the decisions of the european council last week did not reassure the financial markets. this is not surprising, given the slow speed with which the right decisions are presented and the lack of political courage and vision of the european leaders. the very concept of how to tackle the issue of financial stability is going in the wrong direction. confidence and stability suggest quick action. there is no time to create new institutions and unclear procedures and even less to change the european union treaty. the right approach is not to restrict the circle of countries who endeavour to stabilise the euro, but the opposite, to expand that circle. countries like the united states, japan, china and brazil, which really have an interest in the stability of the euro currency, should be involved in this effort. the imf is able to provide a platform for such an intervention. it should be allowed to conclude agreements to finance the countries with balance of payments problems. in parallel, the restricted use of eurobonds, the european stability mechanism and the activity of the european central bank can provide the necessary robust financial resource which is needed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the council position on the european protection decision. this project is ambitious. and it's precisely because he's ambitious that his gestation has been so long. today we are reaching an honourable compromise which will finally enable us to ensure that european citizens who are victims of crime are protected on a geographical basis. the main disagreement on the legal basis has been resolved. only decisions of a criminal nature may be the subject of a european protection order. parliament has agreed to include the civil aspect in another text. but parliament will ensure that this text respects the spirit and the letter of what it requires. we will not accept that the directive on the european protection order in civil matters is weaker than the one we have on the table today for the criminal aspect. finally, we can be proud of the fact that we have succeeded in having the word dignity inserted in the text. it's a difficult term to define, and i can understand some people's reluctance to put it in the text, but it's a necessary evil. because the hardest thing for a crime victim is to get back their stolen dignity.
mr president, in the limited time i have, i would like to draw baroness ashton’s attention to two issues. first of all, sometimes we tend to use any opportunity to give general assessments on all aspects of life in russia, which is not always helpful because that makes us less focused. this time it is fully understandable that we use this opportunity to give our assessment of and recommendations concerning the problem with the elections in russia. we hope that the presidential election next year will be better prepared, better managed and more fair and free. along with the criticism we should, however, recognise that, despite the expected win of the ruling party, russia is different today, and we have to use the momentum not just to blame the authorities, but also to encourage them to change their approach next march. at the same time, those who fight for more democracy in russia should feel our backing as well. secondly, i would like to call russia to join the eu in its efforts to help the common neighbourhood. both sides are interested in the stability, sustainable economic development and social progress of these countries. in this respect, we should encourage russia, particularly the new leadership that will be elected next year, not to compete with the eu for influence but to contribute to the resolution of frozen conflicts, especially in nagorno-karabakh in transnistria.
madam president, mr füle, today and tomorrow we are finalising an important stage of our work this year. we should thank you, mrs ashton and your teams for working extremely hard throughout the year and for being able to present a revised neighbourhood policy that provides a much more effective response to the challenges we faced this year. we should also thank mr mário david and mr marek siwiec for their efforts throughout the year to ensure that parliament has a comprehensive position that will help us to present our vision to our constituents. i believe they expected us to be active and to give our ideas on the development of our relations with our neighbours both to the east and to the south. parliament also contributed to the expansion of multinational cooperation at parliamentary level by creating the euronest parliamentary assembly. i believe that relations with our neighbours will develop positively, although there will be setbacks; this is inevitable. i hope, however, that there will be an association agreement with ukraine. i believe that armenia will hold fair and democratic elections next year, and georgia will not allow a return to the past. we must be especially careful in our relations with our neighbours to the south. the fact that parties strongly influenced by the dominant religion in these countries come to power is not in itself a problem. the problem is that we start to compromise with them just because they're democratically elected. in this regard, the revised neighbourhood policy gives a very clear answer: we must adhere to the principles on which our union is built and on which our relations with these countries must be built.
the fruit juice directive is of particular importance, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, because it aims not only to provide consumers with more complete and accurate product information, protecting their health, but also to ensure the high quality of the products covered by it, which are sold on the european common market. the changes to the directive will provide the necessary consumer certainty and will lead to the development of more products, made in healthier recipes and with healthier content. these new rules will boost innovation and competition in one of the most developed industries in the european union - food and drink. ladies and gentlemen, i urge you to support the report by my colleague, mrs andrés rodriguez, an example of legislation which not only protects consumers but also strongly promotes good food production practices.
mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr perello rodriguez, on a job well done. i would like to draw attention to a few points that are important to me. firstly, i believe that one of the main duties of all of us is to make the necessary efforts to stimulate european production. the fact is that some of the member states of the european union have the potential and the capacity to satisfy a large part of the fruit juice consumption on the european market and we are obliged to support this sector. the positive effect of this can be seen in several aspects: environmental benefits by ensuring that all fruit is harvested, thus avoiding the destruction of the product unsuitable for direct sale or leaving it unharvested in rural areas, which causes the spread of pests; benefits from a socioeconomic point of view, because it generates added value for the creation of jobs and incomes for producers. the second point i would like to emphasize concerns the sugar-free labelling. i believe that they are of great importance to consumers, especially the various risk groups and children, because today the consumption of fruit juices is part of a healthy diet and can be a factor in a balanced lifestyle. i believe that the compromises reached are sufficiently clear and appropriate to distinguish between the different types of beverages and their contents and will contribute to changing consumer habits in order to achieve and maintain good health. last but not least, i think it is important not to lose sight of the balance between protecting the interests of consumers and those of european producers. consumers have a right to know exactly what they are consuming, but this should not lead to the imposition of rules that kill european producers. this is a very important condition for smes, as they are much more sensitive to any legislative change. finally, i think it is necessary to accept the compromise version, even if it does not contain all our original proposals.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr bill newton dunn, for his overall work and, above all, for his ability to stand his ground throughout the process and to defend a very good report. the high phosphate content of laundry detergents has a proven highly negative effect on marine and river ecosystems. phosphates and phosphorus compounds contained in detergents for dishwashers and washing machines are highly stimulating the growth of algae in lakes, rivers and seas, which leads to a disruption of the normal animal and plant population in these environments. some member states have already been able to recognise the irreversible damage caused by the use of phosphate detergents and have begun to take legal measures to prevent more serious catastrophic consequences. the environment and public health committee of the european parliament expressed its concern by supporting the inclusion of laundry detergents in the scope of the regulation. last week i was at the conference in durban, and i'd like to share with you the fact that the fight for a cleaner planet is going strong. in this context, i am convinced that the european union must once again show strong will and global leadership, setting ever higher standards for environmental protection, but also fostering innovation and research.
madam president, the european union has recently welcomed 12 new member states, who made great sacrifices in joining the union. the old 15 also made very big sacrifices in relation to european integration. this was done with the idea of a greater solidarity, of how the nations that were east of the iron curtain would get very big benefits. i can tell you, however, that the most ordinary citizens of my country, bulgaria, are having difficulty exercising their rights in the european union. and that's because they can't figure out how to do it. the current situation creates a euro-oligarchy where only those who have inside access to this information have rights. this is bad and it has to stop. and so these amendments which are before us now (which are not mr cashman's - they are the result of years of work by four parliamentary committees) are better than the commission's proposal and i urge you to support them.
madam president, the end of this year is the crucial point when we all can show if we are truly committed to the idea of more europe and a stronger europe through more integration. the 11 member states that still impose this legally correct mechanism to protect their labour markets could show in reality – and not only in words – if they are open to the idea of a truly free and functioning single market where barriers for workers do not exist and every citizen can exercise his or her right to work in the entire union. all the studies and reports recently released by the commission show no solid evidence of a direct link between the magnitude of labour flows from the two eu member states and the transitional arrangements in place. on the contrary, evidence shows that the transitional measures have only had a limited influence on the distribution of intra-eu mobility, and that mobility flows are driven by other factors, such as general labour demand and language. we are now at a stage where, if any of these 11 member states wants to continue restrictions, that member state has to provide clear and solid arguments for serious disturbances in its labour markets because of expected inflows of a labour force from bulgaria and romania. it is very important for us to know how the commission will assess the evidence that the member states will present. i plead to the commisison to be a true guardian of the treaties and to strictly evaluate the arguments that may be presented for its attention. the criteria should be transparent and objective and should prove that the disturbances are a direct result of the opening up of the market. i hope the commission will show the strength to reject some of the member states’ requests if they are not sufficiently backed by objective evidence, and i hope that my colleagues will vote in favour of the resolution tomorrow in order to reconfirm the support that the eu parliament has always shown for the free movement of workers.
madam president, the prolongation of these transitional barriers for the labour force of bulgaria and romania is now outdated and totally unacceptable: five years of discriminatory measures are quite enough. some of the remaining 11 member states which have indicated that they intend to maintain these restrictions should try very hard to provide a full justification and arguments and data, because the term ‘serious disturbances of labour markets’ requires very convincing arguments. some colleagues here have already mentioned the netherlands. i must say that recently – without any reason – the netherlands has joined this camp, but they follow in some cases clear xenophobic trends of political behaviour, which is not explicable. if convincing arguments are not provided in such cases of discrimination, this represents a violation of the accession treaties. i might say that in this case the commission (and i agree with most colleagues) is actually in debt. the commission sometimes finds definitions in defence of the treaties. i see a helpless position in this respect, and i would like to urge commissioner andor to be much more active and also to convey our concerns to the commission as a whole. in my opinion, the prolongation of this regime leads to a growing shadow economy which is actually causing real disturbances in labour markets, as a lot of colleagues have pointed out. so please do your best, because the commission should be much more active on this issue.
blue-card question. – madam president, i would like to point out to ms sinclaire that the people she mentioned have contributed enormously to the economic progress of the united kingdom over this period. if she is talking about british taxpayers, those 800 000 were also british taxpayers and contributed to welfare assistance as well. i would ask her to please be more careful when making her judgements.
madam president, mr andor, we are aware that there is a legal basis for extending the time limits and that the commission cannot do much about this, especially if it is not keen to intervene more seriously. what we want is for you to develop clearer criteria to serve as a basis for decisions by the member states, and i think that is entirely within your power. governments should read your last report from november 11th carefully and the data there is indicative there is no reason to continue the restrictions. there are no economic indicators suggesting that the bulgarian and romanian workforce poses a threat. on the contrary, restrictions only lead to higher undeclared employment and the consequences are negative for all labour market participants. let's be clear: the reasons for the extension are purely political. but the principles of free movement of persons and the right to work cannot be subject to double standards in their application. we don't want gifts for bulgaria and romania, we just want equal treatment, we want to abandon the policy of systematic humiliation of two eu member states and their citizens.
in writing. − i gave my support to the proposed resolution because transport policy is important for the development of european regions, provides significant employment and is a key factor in maintaining the eu's competitive position at global level. i believe that the transport sector has a strong potential to support the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in areas such as sustainable economic growth, innovation and energy. in this respect, i share the view that more serious support is needed for infrastructure development in the new member states, which would help to reduce regional disparities and to achieve a single european transport area. intermodality is also important for increasing the efficiency of the sector, and different modes of transport should complement each other. the importance of coordination between policies and different stakeholders is also key, and macro-regional strategies can play a significant role in this regard. climate change, the shift of transport towards alternative and renewable energy sources and safe and accessible infrastructure for people with disabilities are just some of the challenges facing the sector for which complex solutions should be proposed.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i have signed the joint motion for a resolution, but i would have preferred the s&d one because i think that this one went a bit too far. i would also say that a resolution in which iran is mentioned in six paragraphs should be named differently. the tragic case of rafiq taqi reveals important problems in interdependencies in that region. when we talk about azerbaijan we should not forget who its neighbours are. we have reasons to be critical about the human rights situation in azerbaijan; we have dealt with this issue many times in our parliament, but we should also support the authorities of azerbaijan in their fight against fundamentalist movements trying to gain ground in the country. this fight is not easy. i call on the azerbaijani government to conduct a full investigation and to provide all relevant information to our parliament. i also call for all possible measures to be taken to ensure the protection of samir sadaqatoglu, who might be another victim of the iranian clerics. finally, i hope that all these issues will be addressed in time, before our meeting of the euronest assembly in baku.
