mr president, on christmas day, the turkish security forces in rizokarpaso, in the occupied part of cyprus, interrupted by force the christmas mass being celebrated by the few remaining – elderly – christians there, evicted the priests from the church and ordered the congregation to leave. the excuse was that they had been given written permission for sunday mass, but that christmas was on a saturday. demanding written permission for mass is a restriction of the freedom of religion in itself, let alone to interrupt a christmas day mass on the grounds of a petty bureaucratic excuse – all this in a member state of the union, by ordinance of a country aspiring to join it. under the vienna agreement, 12 000 greek cypriots enclaved in the karpass peninsula were allowed to live there after the turkish invasion. today there are 300. now you understand why.
mr president, i also want to raise the issue of respect for religious freedom for all, without discrimination, because this is a basic human right. that human right was violated in my country for the few christians attending christmas mass at the church of agios synesios in the occupied village of rizokarpaso. the so-called police of the turkish occupying regime entered the church and forced the priest to terminate the christmas day service and then forced the enclaved greek cypriots attending the mass to evacuate the church. the european parliament must strongly condemn such actions, which reveal the ugly and oppressive face of the turkish occupation of the northern part of cyprus, in violation of european law and human rights and the third vienna agreement of 1975. the eu must stop turkey and its subordinate local administration in the occupied part of cyprus from committing further violations, and from continuing the ethnic cleansing of the remaining 300 christian greek cypriots.
mr president, cross-border healthcare is a necessity these days. this directive creates the conditions for a europe without frontiers in the field of medicine. patients with chronic serious illnesses can now benefit from specialised treatment, increased mobility and more complete information from contact points, as well as mechanisms to cover costs without suffering. the new community directive creates new challenges, pressures to modernise the national health systems in the 27 member states of the european union and, consequently, the need for continuous networking and cooperation between all the medical systems of the 27 member states of the european union with the aim of always exchanging good practices, promoting e-health and, of course, continuously improving the quality of border healthcare. this is a challenge we must face... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, the political message from the last council decisions addressed to speculators, media and markets is that the eu member states will do whatever it takes to safeguard the euro zone and defend the euro. whatever internal discussions take place, whether the financial facility will need to double its capital and the right to buy bonds, whether the financial stability mechanism after 2013 will include trimming or will be ordered to sell eurobonds, are ideas that are not excluded by any member state. only the timing is under discussion: whether and when needed and how. let the media and analysts be under no illusion. the eu will introduce all that is needed, when it is needed. regarding the financial stability mechanism, the council’s decision says that the mechanism is ‘to be activated if indispensable to safeguard the stability of the euro zone as a whole’. as a member from a small member state, may i ask for reassurances that members like malta, cyprus, estonia or slovenia will be included, because if they are in trouble, they may not be indispensable for the stability of the whole?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, according to the united nations charter everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. the right of every person to follow any religious belief or none at all must be guaranteed and respected by all. we do not see religion as a tool to be exploited in political conflicts. in this context, we condemn all the recent attacks both in alexandria and elsewhere and express our condolences to the families of the victims. in an unprecedented move by the turkish occupation regime in cyprus, a christmas religious ceremony at the church of st. synecys in occupied rizokarpasos was violently interrupted and eventually cancelled. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in cyprus is not further aggravated by the fact that the turkish cypriots are being held hostage in the turkish cypriot prison. similarly, in yalusa, on the day of epiphany, the religious ceremony was canceled on the baseless claim that the permit had not been obtained within the required time schedule. these acts, mr president, are in clear violation of the third vienna agreement of 2 august 1975, as well as articles 3 and 9 of the european convention on human rights, article 10 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and article 18 of the universal declaration of human rights. we strongly condemn the actions of the occupying regime, which constitute a flagrant violation of one of the most basic human rights. it needs an immediate response. respect for beliefs and rights must be of fundamental importance to the european union.
mr president, as socialists we believe in human rights and certainly in religious rights. and, as mr swoboda has rightly said, we are not only concerned about the christian religion, but about the rights of all religions, about the right to practice one's religion and much more about understanding all religions and understanding one's faith as a citizen. i would like to mention one specific incident in cyprus, which is mentioned in the report, because of its origin. in a church that for decades had been the christmas church, the turkish occupation presence intervened to stop the celebration of this service and much more to expel the faithful and force the priest to take off his robes. the difference in this particular episode is that it is unfortunately - or fortunately, because we are given the opportunity to help solve this problem - on european soil.
mr president, the persecution and massacre of christians in the middle east is usually the work of fanatical and terrorist organizations. the persecution of greek cypriot christians in occupied cyprus is the work of the regular army of a country seeking to join the european union. i have in my hands a letter sent by the self-styled 'ambassador of the turkish republic of northern cyprus' in brussels - an entity which exists only on the strength of the turkish occupation army - in which he seeks to ridicule me and at the same time admits that the interruption of the service in rizokarpasos was because the greek cypriot christians had not been given permission. baroness ashton, since when does the exercise of religious faith require permission from anyone? and how long will you tolerate a country which is seeking to join the european union to violate so brutally the human rights and religious freedoms of european citizens?
mr president, article 3 of the european convention on human rights prohibits ‘inhuman or degrading treatment’ and article 9 protects the right ‘to manifest one’s religion or beliefs’ in worship. this has been reiterated by the european court of human rights in its judgment in the fourth cyprus v. turkey inter-state case since 2001. i would say to lady ashton: unfortunately for the last 36 years, turkey, a candidate country for accession to the european union, has been destroying religious monuments in cyprus and turning christian churches into mosques and stables, and it recently put an end to christmas and epiphany masses in christian churches in occupied rizokarpaso and yialousa. turkey must be condemned for its crimes within eu territory. the eu must not remain passive. christians in cyprus are in danger.
mr president, it is clear that in belarus things have turned very badly for our principles and our beliefs. lukashenko is in charge of the country and the opposition is in prison. so we are expected to move towards civil society, which, as has been rightly said, values the european union and its principles, to demand freedom of the press, the release of the imprisoned opposition leaders and, above all, to build a policy, as mrs ashton has said, which i fully agree with, in order to create new conditions for re-establishing relations with belarus.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to brief this house regarding the negotiations on the european union-libya framework agreement. the commission and the european parliament are already working closely on the libyan issue. we have a joint interest in ensuring the positive development of our relations with libya, which is an important neighbour. in this context i would particularly like to congratulate your delegation for relations with the maghreb countries for the agreement reached during the visit to tripoli, which indeed provides for regular consultation with the libyan parliament. i am determined to ensure that the close cooperation between our institutions continues. in particular i am keen to inform the european parliament regularly about the latest developments regarding negotiations on the framework agreement. i know that our chief negotiator debriefs you after each negotiation session. let me give you some information on the latest state of play. we completed the ninth round of negotiations in mid-november in tripoli. the next one is scheduled for 24-26 january in brussels. since the launch of negotiations more than two years ago, we have made good progress. in fact we have provisionally agreed the preamble and six out of ten titles of the agreement. in particular we have reached a provisional agreement on the title on political dialogue, which contains important references to respect for human rights, the fight against weapons of mass destruction, the fight against terrorism, etc. libya has agreed to establish a regular dialogue on human rights and fundamental freedoms, which was a key objective for us. in fact we are very satisfied with the outcome achieved in this title. as you might be aware, there are some outstanding issues, namely the questions of energy and trade. energy represents the core of libya’s economy – indeed 70% of libya’s gdp. therefore the attention and caution libya devotes to this issue is understandable. as for trade, libya has limited experience negotiating complex trade agreements. this is why progress has been moderate in this field. experts from both sides meet very regularly to ensure that we can reach agreement on these two issues as soon as possible, but of course there are difficult political issues. one of them is the question of the rome statute. libya categorically refuses to make an explicit reference to the rome statute. however, it is ready to make a commitment on cooperation with the european union on the fight against impunity, in particular on those crimes defined in the rome statute. on migration there are also difficulties, notably because libya refuses to readmit third country nationals. i have taken note of the recommendation made by this house regarding this particular aspect of the negotiation and i will certainly discuss this with member states. also on migration, i can reassure this house that we are committed to ensuring that libya respects its international commitments regarding the principle of non-refoulement. this is an important point for the european union. we also consider that it is important that libya should adhere as soon as possible to the 1951 geneva convention and its 1967 protocol on the status of refugees. however, it should be noted that libya has indicated that it does not intend to adhere to this convention. i would also like to stress that we are following closely negotiation between libya and the unhcr in the hope that a satisfactory solution will be found to ensure that the unhcr is able to discharge its mandate fully and in a legally secure environment. more generally, in october we reached an agreement with a view to developing cooperation with libya on all migration-related issues, including the issues of international protection, improving the conditions of migrants in libya, management of migration and border control. this is a positive development because we need to work jointly with libya to tackle all the challenges that it faces in relation to migration. finally, let me conclude on the issue of the negotiating directives, which this house has repeatedly requested access to. i am fully aware of the obligations created by article 218 of the lisbon treaty. as you know, negotiating directives are a classified document of the council. this is why the council had to study your request in a horizontal manner. i am glad to tell you that this debate has been concluded and, as you are probably aware, the council has granted access to the negotiating directives of the european union-libya framework agreement in respect of the agreed procedures and of the council’s security regulations. the council has informed the chair of the committee on foreign affairs accordingly.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the june 2009 council recommended prioritising the conclusion of readmission agreements with libya and turkey, considered as major gates for illegal immigration into europe. the libyan gate mainly affects malta and italy. massive illegal immigration in malta risks altering its demographic composition. although shared responsibility is recognised by all, little is done in practice to correct this development. the number of arrivals in malta decreased only when italy, equally affected, reached a bilateral agreement with libya, in which libya assumed responsibility for patrolling its shores and harbours. what is needed is an eu-libya readmission agreement in the context of a framework agreement. negotiations are difficult, but we support the commission’s efforts and we encourage it to continue until it succeeds. we commend the migration and cooperation agreement concluded between the commission and libya last october. it is essential to prepare libya with regard to issues such as the protection system for asylum seekers, the management of land borders, the alignment of legislation with the african convention on refugees and the management of migratory flows. we know about the human rights situation, the dependent judiciary, the conditions of detention, torture and capital punishment in libya. however, the readmission agreement is necessary. this excludes people who are entitled to asylum, need political protection, or risk mistreatment in libya, while the principle of non-refoulement applies to everybody.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her work and mr füle for being here. we believe that in the mediterranean region, which is sensitive in every respect, continuous efforts should be made to develop understanding and cooperation; cooperation on an equal footing, taking into account the disparities and imbalances existing in the various areas of development between the mediterranean countries and between the european union and the countries neighbouring the region; cooperation aimed at peace. this can be achieved by dialogue on the basis of mutual respect and we must therefore be open to interaction. in this context, we are in favour of strengthening the european union's relations with libya. there are, however, some sensitive issues which need to be addressed in the process of developing these relations. i shall focus on the issue of refugees, immigrants and the readmission agreement. a readmission agreement with libya is being sought as part of the framework agreement being discussed between the european union and libya. the possible signing of such an agreement, without any parallel reforms to improve the socioeconomic situation of migrants, will add to the continuing violation of human rights and thus advocate the forced return of migrants to conditions that do not guarantee their safety or minimum acceptable standards of living. the libyan authorities should be asked to legally recognise the presence of the un high commissioner for refugees. we must also take up the sensitive issue of the death penalty. it would be right to seek an agreement to suspend its application in libya with the ultimate aim of abolishing it.
in writing. as socialists we support human rights as one of our basic policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to support the development of the community's energy policy. the events of christmas, where the occupying presence interrupted the divine liturgy in rizokarpasos, occupied cyprus, are reprehensible. in turkish-occupied cyprus, state terrorism is being imposed by turkey and the occupying army against the orthodox christians and even more against the few remaining trapped greek cypriots.
mr president, the arab world is our partner in the union for the mediterranean. in all our involvement with them we have always advanced the principles of pluralistic democracy, freedom of the media, of expression and of assembly, respect for human rights, an independent judiciary, and good governance. but we have always maintained that these principles should be realised from within, not imposed from outside. the people of tunisia succeeded, from within, in defying repression, a police state and torture, and in winning freedom and democracy. the tunisian authorities must respect the will of the people and proceed without delay to a process of democratisation, with accountability in cases of corruption or repression by the cronies of ben ali. for similar reasons the people of egypt have defied killings, arrests, tear gas and bullets and have demanded bread and freedom, dignity and emancipation. beware: democracy does not mean elections. it means much, much more than this. we unequivocally support the people of egypt and call on their current leaders to listen to the wisdom of their people and not to become an obstacle in responding to their aspirations. to our european officials, the council and the vice-president/high representative, i say this: it is disappointing to listen to president obama, or hillary clinton, speaking boldly and on time, with you, as always, playing second fiddle and barely audible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the overwhelming majority of this house supports the egyptian uprising, and that is certainly very true, with the slightest exceptions such as the one we have just heard. but i think, and you will agree with me, that politics is about being timely and decisive, and i think all of us here have to admit that we have not seen what has been happening in egypt in these last decades. where were we all when billions of dollars from the united states were being funneled into egypt to support this regime? we are in support of the people of egypt who are rising up for their rights to prosperity, to health, to education. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i should like to mention that in this process we must take care of the palestinians, so that the palestinian people are not victimized. we, representing here cyprus, a neighbour of egypt, are following events with great concern and we support, i repeat, the rights of the egyptian people in this uprising.
mr president, in the turkish cypriot community in cyprus trade unions, parties and bodies are waging a struggle against ankara's policy, which, among other things, makes the turkish cypriots a species in danger of extinction politically and through migration. the most sad part of the case is the irreverent and disparaging statements of turkish prime minister erdogan to the turkish cypriots, who more or less demanded that those who oppose ankara's policy in the occupied part of cyprus be condemned. the turkish prime minister has now openly and directly admitted that turkey has strategic interests in cyprus and has unsuccessfully ordered the turkish cypriots to shut up. we are in solidarity. our fight is their fight. their objective is our objective. the problem is not the turkish cypriots, as some claim. the problem is turkey's arrogant and arbitrary policy.
mr president, the reason why i feel the need to speak at today's sitting is precisely because the issue of cyprus and the problem of immigration that we are facing has not been raised. cyprus, a small state of half a million, receives daily migrants crossing the green line through the occupied territories, a number that can reach 30 to 50 people a day for a population of half a million. we do not have any centres for the collection of asylum seekers. and the result is that if their application is not accepted, we cannot at the end of the day send them back to the country from which they came. they come in from occupied countries, most countries destroy their documents and basically these migrants stay on the island.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, as the european united left we are in favour of croatia's accession to the european union and we hope that it will soon become a full member, if that is the will of the croatian people and if the country fulfils all the criteria for membership. the progress report and we welcome the progress made in the field of refugee return, in the areas of women's rights and gender equality and in bridging the gap with neighbouring countries. we also insist on further reforms, particularly in the judicial sector and the fight against corruption. but we must also take care of the socioeconomic problems that are plaguing the people of croatia, such as poverty, long-term unemployment, the violation of labour rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we therefore support the promotion of genuine social development, ensuring a quality of life for all croatian citizens through the modernisation of the social protection system, tackling unemployment, improving access to health, housing, education and eliminating discrimination, particularly as regards minority groups.
mr president, the departure of hosni mubarak signals the transition towards a pluralist democracy responding to the aspirations of the egyptian people. the egyptian armed forces now have the responsibility of leading their country, in a short period of time, towards genuine democracy, the rule of law with an independent judiciary, good governance and accountability on suspected cases of corruption. the military leadership is cautioned not to disappoint the youth, who were at the forefront of the demonstrations and whose representatives should be called upon to play their role in building democracy during the transition. the message of egypt is a message for the whole arab world. the arab countries are our partners; we have no intention of patronising them or imposing anything from the outside. however, the message for them, as sent by the egyptians and the tunisians, is: ‘reform and reform now. democratise, govern well, fight corruption or face the wrath of the people.’ this message is not only for the arab world. yesterday it was relayed in diyarbakir in turkey, and in teheran and other iranian cities. the people can do it!
in writing. the issue of egypt is very serious considering the size of the country and its geographical location. cyprus has always maintained good neighbourly relations with egypt and its potential contribution to developments is not to be underestimated. it is very important that the present crisis leads to the establishment of a democratic regime and the rule of law and to the avoidance of the creation of a hardline muslim state that would destabilise the region. the european union is also committed to the development of the middle east and to the peace process in the region.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our attention has been focused lately on the uprising of the peoples of north africa. the european union is not prepared to accept the idea of a common foreign and security policy, but it is prepared to accept the idea of a common foreign and security policy. it is a revolt of particular significance and especially those who are upset that we are not hearing the voice of the turkish cypriots, this is the moment to really hear the voice of the turkish cypriots. the turkish cypriots have risen up against the economic hardship imposed on them by the turkish occupation, against the presence of settlers who are altering the composition of the population and leading them to extinction, against the invasion of islam by the construction of hundreds of mosques and with the religious teachers sent by mr erdogan to occupied cyprus and fighting under the flag of the republic of cyprus to survive. the turkish cypriots have said no to the annan plan, they are not the ones who voted yes to the annan plan, which definitively divided cyprus. the european union has a duty to help the people of cyprus, and i think that is why we must open our ears and listen to the revolt of my fellow countrymen, the turkish cypriots.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to say that for me the fight for equality between men and women is not a fight between the left and the right, it is not a fight between men and women, it is a fight between society. what society today could invest in girls' education as we do, and then deprive itself of 50 percent of the intelligence in working life? this must not be the society we live in. i ask you to mobilize the commission, the council and parliament so that we can have a more equal, fairer society which is better able to promote the education of young girls and their intelligence. the second point concerns equality in positions of responsibility, madam commissioner. you know, i'm french and i was against quotas. but after 10 years, i realize that without quotas, we're not going to make it. without quotas, we will never have as many women as men (applause) in positions of responsibility. last week i heard the president of parliament say the same thing. i think today we really need to go down that road. you know, i was against quotas because i find it somewhat shameful that we need to protect women who, by virtue of their skills, should be able to do so. but today, we need to go through that. finally, third point: we also need to fight for equal pay between men and women. thank you for contributing. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, today we celebrate the enduring struggles of women and the achievements of women. we note the persistent democratic deficits that are now exacerbated by the economic crisis: poverty, trafficking, violence, unemployment, sexual exploitation, pay gaps, media stigma, stereotyping and under-representation in decision-making bodies - all of which are female - hit single women, the elderly, migrants and women with disabilities the hardest. coordinated action is needed at european and national level: more effective employment and social protection policies to combat poverty, more work-life balance measures to support women workers, positive action and quotas for balanced representation in decision-making bodies. proper education and awareness to overcome violence and stereotypes. the road is long, but we must go on because women deserve better opportunities without prejudice.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i shall avoid referring to mr van orden's arguments, firstly because it would be a waste of my time, and secondly because it equates, not for the first time, the perpetrator with the victim in cyprus. we are in favour of turkey's accession, ladies and gentlemen, if that is the will of its people and if it meets all the criteria for membership. to do this, turkey must provide a real political solution to the kurdish question and release the hundreds of kurdish mayors and councillors it has in prison and work towards establishing the rule of law, recognise the armenian genocide and resolve the problems with greece, particularly in the aegean. in the cyprus issue, to stop hiding behind what happened in 2004. it's already 2011. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the fact that the european union is a great power. the european union is therefore calling on the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's military forces are withdrawn from cyprus. i would like to conclude by recalling the demonstrations by turkish cypriots who asked turkey, mr van orden, to give them the right to speak in their own homes. instead, eroglu called for the protesters to be brought to trial. turkey must respect the will of the turkish cypriots by allowing the census of the population in the occupied areas, ending the colonization and allowing the names of towns and villages to be put back on the map as they have been for thousands of years.
madam president, those who support turkey’s accession to the european union, or some of them in this parliament, feel duty bound to support amendments against cyprus. turkey is running out of chapters and the accession process risks stalling. fourteen chapters are frozen because turkey stubbornly refuses to extend the ankara protocol. a successful outcome to the current negotiations on solving the occupation of cyprus will automatically make 14 chapters available. ban ki-moon urged all international actors to focus on the efforts for such a settlement. voting in favour of amendments like the one on direct trade of 26 april in a divided cyprus, unnecessary though in a united one, encourages intransigence, the failure of efforts for a solution and perpetuates the freezing of chapters. picking on cyprus leads turkey nowhere.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a year later, the settlement continues, the presence of the occupying army continues in cyprus and, not only that, but for almost a whole month now we have turkish cypriots protesting against the presence of turkish troops on the island and against the economic situation which exists in the occupied territories because of the presence of the turkish occupying army. and what was the response of the turkish prime minister? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the moral values and principles of the european union do not allow it to sacrifice cyprus on the altar of turkey's accession process and indeed, as a fellow socialist mep has reminded us - i say this with a shudder - 'it is not cyprus that has invaded turkey but turkey that has invaded cyprus'. let's not forget that, fellas! i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
madam president, madam minister, commissioner, as mrs oomen-ruijten very rightly said in her report, turkey cannot join the european union unless the cyprus problem is resolved, unless the facts of the occupation are removed, unless the army leaves cyprus. the european union is not a party to the accession process, but it is a party to the process of integration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. i do not think, commissioner, that the process of destroying cyprus can bring turkey into the union, and those who want to help turkey should not turn against cyprus. it is a basic element that we all have to respect. the european union is not only a party to the treaty of rome, but also a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the turkish cypriots are not forced to leave the island.
mr president, at its beginning the uprising in libya had the same motivations and characteristics as events in tunisia and egypt. the gaddafi regime undertook an unprecedented lethal repression using air force, helicopter gunships and ruthless mercenaries shooting to kill unarmed civilians. the massacre caused defections in the army, the government and the diplomatic service. the people in benghazi and elsewhere took arms from the defecting army, and the uprising is now an armed conflict, unequal in terms of power. gaddafi has lost any legitimacy to lead, having committed crimes against humanity, against his own people. the protracted conflict is causing a great humanitarian disaster inside and along the libyan borders. it risks creating migratory flows towards the eu, in particular the southern member states. it also raises the world price of oil to levels dangerous for the world economy. it is therefore imperative that the conflict ends immediately, but gaddafi must not prevail. the no-fly zone must be implemented urgently and we should use all other possible means to assist the pro-democratic libyans to defeat the forces who, through bribery, intimidation and tribal manipulation, are still supporting gaddafi. we can imagine what it will mean if gaddafi succeeds. we will be witnessing a situation worse than that of rwanda, to the shame of all humanity. resolute action is needed now.
in writing. in the past year, there has been no change in turkey's attitude towards the european union, and towards cyprus. the presence of turkish settlers and occupation troops on the island continues. it is important to mention that in occupied cyprus, turkish cypriots are protesting against turkey, protesting the economic hardship they are facing due to the presence of the turkish occupation army. the turkish prime minister erdogan in his statements, referring to the turkish cypriot protests, admitted that turkey invaded cyprus to serve its strategic interests.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i take the opportunity of the speeches made today to refer to the european union's position on the events taking place around us in the arab world. a posture that confuses stagnation with stability; the european parliament has been a party to the peace process in the middle east, and it has been a party to the peace process in the middle east. the european union can do something different, it can do something right. it has proved this in the case of palestine, at least as far as the so-called 'state building' is concerned. although the european union is still not making a strong political statement in the arab conflict, it has been supporting the government of president abbas and prime minister fayyad for the last two or three years in such a way that the necessary institutions have been set up so that by next september prime minister fayyad will be able to ask the un to recognise the independent state of palestine, and i hope that when this call is made, the european union will respond positively. the european union could play a similar role with the countries of the region. i hope and hope and i call on the european union to negotiate and conclude agreements with each of the countries whose peoples are calling for change and, together with the representatives of those peoples, to identify the areas in which the european union could help economically and, in other ways, by exchanging experts and defining common programmes for the socioeconomic development of the region. in this way, the european union is also meeting the objectives it has set itself in its own neighbourhood policy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, as a political group we have from the outset set out to avoid any reduction in consumer rights in the european union. the commission's original proposal, although very ambitious, proved to be extremely weak in meeting the needs of all consumers in the european union. the proposal for a fully harmonised directive was therefore a red line and it became clear that this would amount to a lower level of consumer protection in the eu. two elements are particularly important in parliament's proposal for a directive. we have before us a completely new proposal from parliament, very different from that proposed by the commission, and with a different perspective from that of the council. the core of this proposal is the mixed approach at the level of harmonisation, leaving it to the member states to define, when they so decide, a higher level of consumer protection. the second point concerns the exceptions to the scope of the directive. we have insisted from the outset that social services, health services and gambling should be excluded from the scope of this directive as they are not relevant to the 'trader-consumer' relationship and have a different approach. we are pleased that this has been taken into account. the commission's proposal is not a proposal for a directive, but a proposal for a directive. on the contrary, we are seeking a strong and coherent position and we call on the commission and the council to take very seriously the core of parliament's proposal, particularly as regards the degree of harmonisation and other provisions on sales contracts.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i am very pleased to be having this debate today, with a view to the vote on wednesday. hopefully, our work will shake the council out of its inertia and trigger productive negotiations, allowing us to fulfil our objective of having a common european asylum system by 2012 and thus taking into consideration the hard work we have all put into this file. i would like to warmly thank mrs guillaume for her excellent work and her conciliatory approach. on the whole, the result is a good text which includes significant improvements with respect to the asylum procedures currently implemented in the eu, which vary enormously from member state to member state. to name but a few, new provisions have been introduced to ensure each applicant is provided with adequate means to substantiate his or her claims in order to reach an asylum decision within a six-month period, such as the personal interview and free advice on procedural and legal aspects in first-instance procedures, including the preparation of the necessary procedural documents.
the turkish prime minister, commenting on the oomen-ruijten report on turkey's accession, said that there was no balance in the report and that he did not consider the authors of the report to be balanced. a few days later, turkish cypriot trade unionists were shouting outside the european parliament in brussels that the turkish political leadership is not only insulting the meps who voted in favour of mrs oomen-ruijten's report, but also the turkish cypriots who, in massive rallies in occupied cyprus, are protesting against the oppression they are being subjected to by the presence of 40,000 turkish troops and countless turkish settlers. turkish cypriot politician qian, speaking at the event, said that ankara is violating international law and is changing the demographic structure completely by transferring population from turkey, threatening the very existence of the turkish cypriot community, stressing that anyone who respects human rights like the european union cannot accept this violation. we are not going to accept this violation, madam president, as a parliament. i call on you to take this voice of protest of the turkish cypriots to both the council and the commission so that they act accordingly before it is too late.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i very much enjoyed your speech today, commissioner, but we are of the opinion that the commission document follows the logic of the lisbon strategy which, according to official statements by the commission, has not achieved its objectives. the single market strategy must first clarify its vision and redefine its priorities, both in terms of language and in practice, so that it is sufficiently visible to citizens. we believe that the market is useful, and has its virtues, but it is not a social model in itself. the social dimension must be established as the first priority and the new single market agenda must be shaped in such a way as to improve social justice. in a free market society, not everything can be for sale. services of general economic interest, health services, should not be covered by competition law or single market legislation. universal access to sustainable public services of high quality is a key policy issue. at the same time, fundamental rights, such as the right to join a trade union, cannot be set aside.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the european union is fully committed to the success of the fourth united nations conference on the least developed countries, which will take place in istanbul on 9-13 may 2011. it believes that this conference provides a major opportunity to enhance support for the least developed countries (ldcs). the council has very recently adopted conclusions to be used as guidelines by the eu negotiators in the preparatory process and during the conference. prioritising ldcs is a necessity in our common endeavour to reach the millennium development goals (mdgs). we therefore remain firmly committed to supporting the inclusive and sustainable development of all ldcs, which represent the poorest and weakest segment of the international community and which are also characterised by their acute susceptibility to external economic shocks, natural and man-made disasters and communicable diseases. we strongly support an outcome focusing on areas and measures that can add value with regard to the specific needs of ldcs and which should reflect the lessons learned from the 2001 brussels programme of action, by maintaining coherence with the mdgs and setting specific goals and targets for ldcs. a long-term commitment through a renewed partnership with ldcs containing suitable measures is fundamental in a rapidly changing world. in particular, the european union considers that the outcome of the istanbul conference should address three main objectives: firstly, combating the vulnerability and fragility of ldcs and further enhancing their resilience to shocks; secondly, creating a favourable environment for the sustainable development of ldcs; thirdly, promoting inclusive and sustainable economic growth for ldcs. these objectives will continue to guide the european union’s discussions with the ldcs throughout the preparatory process and during the conference itself. the european union has always led the international community’s efforts to support the ldcs, and is their largest donor. it has been the most successful development partner at fulfilling its commitments, notably in terms of market access, rules of origin and debt alleviation. it has made significant progress on official development assistance (oda) as well as on policy coherence for development. some ldcs have achieved good economic growth and progress in development during the last decade, yet we recognise that overall progress has been uneven. considerable work remains to be done, notably in sub-saharan africa and in countries that are in both conflict and fragile situations. for that reason, the eu has recently reaffirmed its commitment, in the context of the overall oda commitment to meet collectively the target of providing 0.15 – 0.20 of gnp to the ldcs. the ldcs have primary responsibility for their own development, and assistance by the donor community ought to be based on the initiative and full ownership of the recipient countries. the european union also stresses the interdependence of overall progress in the ldcs with the improvement of good governance, democracy, human rights and gender equality. finally, at the same time we are firmly convinced that all countries have the responsibility to help developing countries to lift themselves out of poverty and achieve progress towards the mdgs. progress in the ldcs is interconnected with the quality and coherence of development partner policies. strong efforts should therefore be directed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of aid mechanisms and to fulfilling existing commitments. on several occasions the eu has called on other donors to meet these commitments. emerging economies should also provide their fair share of assistance to ldcs.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is committed to the success of the fourth united nations conference on the least developed countries in istanbul, creating a renewed political momentum for inclusive growth, sustainable development and poverty reduction in the least developed countries. this conviction and commitment of ours is expressed in the council conclusions, adopted last week on 31 march, on guidelines for the participation of the eu in the upcoming conference on the least developed countries. i am also very happy to note that parliament will be strongly represented in the delegation that will be attending this conference. many least developed countries have made progress in their development, but progress has been uneven and considerable work remains to be done. too few of the least developed countries are graduating from the category and most are lagging behind in achieving the millennium development goals. we, both donors and least developed countries, need to learn important lessons from the success of some of the least developed countries, as well as from the implementation of the brussels programme of action. global partnership and mutual responsibility are vital for the success of the conference. development is a joint challenge. the developing countries have primary responsibility for their own development by designing and implementing appropriate policies and achieving good governance. as regards the least developed countries, the european union has been their most successful development partner in fulfilling its commitments, notably in terms of market access, rules of origin and debt alleviation. the european union is the largest donor to the least developed countries and has made significant progress concerning official development assistance, tripling its aid to these countries in the past decade. in istanbul the european union will call upon other donors and development partners to match its commitment and ambition. developed countries have a responsibility to help developing countries to lift themselves out of poverty. in this context of global partnership the emerging economies should also do their share. sustainable development and long-term equitable and inclusive growth are essential for each of these countries. the private sector has a crucial role to play in this regard and can have a huge impact on people’s lives through generating wealth and employment. the potential of trade as an engine for growth and employment is considerable. nevertheless, the european union wants to underline the interdependence of progress in the least developed countries with human rights, gender equality, democracy, good governance, peace and security. progress in the least developed countries is interconnected with equality and coherence of development partners’ policies. therefore strenuous efforts should be directed towards improving the efficiency and effectiveness of aid mechanisms, as well as policy coherence for development. the presidency has already announced three priorities, so let me just add that the conference should address the issue of graduation also. the european union will be calling for a more systematic mechanism for granting time-sensitive concession and support to graduating countries. the commission is convinced that this new momentum will result in a significant increase in the number of countries graduating from the category of the least developed countries in the next decade.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission, mr president, has rightly said that the council's conclusions, in line with the european union's commitments, must be accompanied by effective measures to support the whole effort. the european parliament's delegation to the united nations conference on the least developed countries in istanbul will certainly be 'equipped' with a good resolution expressing satisfactory positions. however, there is a problem with the status of the delegation, because as observers they will not be able to intervene directly and i think that the commission and president barroso can make a significant contribution to diversify this situation. the development and security of the european union and the control of migration flows cannot be achieved with some one billion citizens living in misery and poverty. it seems that efforts to develop the least developed countries must be reviewed because, yes, the least developed countries are to blame, but, nevertheless, the mechanisms used to break the vicious circle of poverty appear to be ineffective. i would point out that the exploitation of wealth in the developing countries is carried out by people other than the indigenous population, and that the democratic deficit and corruption, as well as insecurity, are the main characteristics of these countries. all this leads to a lack of basic infrastructure in the fields of education, health, transport, communications, primary production, agriculture, banking and public administration. i think that in istanbul the mechanisms can be put in place for a better approach to the phenomenon of poverty.
in writing. in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the violation of press independence, the independence of the judiciary and the skopje 2014 urban regeneration plan are key features. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if to this unfavourable internal environment is added the unresolved name issue, it is clear that the country's european perspective is being seriously tested.
madam president, in the past couple of months, the commission has moved rather fast in publishing two important communications aimed at addressing the challenges at hand since the outbreak of the jasmine revolution in tunisia. a number of policy options have been put forward and parliament has already expressed itself on them in order to guide the commission in drafting concrete legislative proposals. in the communication on migration, the commission addresses the issues of external border controls, schengen governance and organised mobility. why is there nothing more explicit here on burden-sharing? the communication mentions the pilot project for the resettlement of refugees in malta, but it does not introduce the notion of a pilot project concerning relocation of unauthorised migrants or asylum seekers – and this despite the repeated calls for such a burden-sharing system from various member states and members of parliament. why is the commission not coming up with a concrete proposal on this? we are talking about a european area of freedom of movement; we are talking about a common european asylum system. when are you going to back up the notion of european solidarity with deeds?
mrs ashton, i think you're right to feel unfairly criticized. what is your fault, when it is obvious that you are bound by the decisions of the major states of the european union? but i have one more question: will those who criticize their governments here do something different from what they are denouncing when governments are in their countries tomorrow? i also agree with what mr schulz said, that until yesterday european states were selling arms to those who we have discovered today to be dictators. but policy means forecasting, it means early detection of problems, otherwise we are just doing an autopsy. the european union is not only a great partner, but also a great ally, and it is a great ally, and it is a great ally, and it is a great ally. apparently, you can't sell new guns unless you destroy the old ones. we believe that in order to move forward, the european union must develop a policy based on peaceful principles, free from military means and interventions, and promote the demilitarisation of international relations. it is a matter of the european parliament and the council of ministers being able to take part in the negotiations on the nuclear agreement. this will be a glorious moment for the european union! a phrase about a neighboring country in the middle east, turkey. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has adopted an opinion on the proposal. - the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. innovative services and products targeting both the private and public sectors should be adopted to facilitate the implementation of administrative procedures, strengthen public administration and reduce bureaucracy and public sector rigidity. in addition, the adoption of innovative solutions is inextricably linked to pre-commercial agreements which resolve issues that cannot be covered by the market or the solutions proposed are inefficient. in the private sector, we should encourage smes, and also very small enterprises which have particular difficulties in adapting to the market, to increase their use of innovative products and to seek and create innovative solutions. special attention should also be paid to very small enterprises in regional and rural areas which face survival problems due to lack of funding, in order to find ways of encouraging the use of innovative solutions by enhancing their viability. at the same time, environmental innovation programmes should be encouraged to address gaps in the fight against climate change and to promote environmentally friendly solutions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from citizens and to improve the quality of its services. the use of innovative solutions should lead to lower costs for businesses and to consumers being able to enjoy cheaper and better quality products.
madam president, i should first like to thank mrs berès, chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs, for having made this debate possible before the ilo conference, and commissioner andor for having accepted this debate between parliament and the commission. i would like to stress one point first. many have discussed how much or how little we know about this world of domestic work. simply, when we say, hesitantly, that there are between 5 and 9 per cent of domestic workers in the working world, it means that we do not know this world. it is a one-to-two ratio and i ask that our provisions enable us, at european level, to know more about the world of domestic work in order to guarantee it better. the second point i would like to stress is that while we have drawn up the europe 2020 strategy and we know that in this europe 2020 low-skilled jobs will be particularly threatened, we must do everything we can here, in this domestic work, to ensure that specialisations are absolutely recognised. as mrs lambert said earlier, there are specific jobs in domestic work, and we need to identify and value them and value the skills in them. the third point is that europe cannot be based on the values of human rights and social rights, and cannot develop the acquis in this field without also developing the protection of wages, the protection of working hours, the protection of health, awareness of the burdens involved, and providing a number of guarantees for domestic workers. i would caution against this, because it should not be a way of integrating workers who are in a completely illegal situation. we must also be aware of the possible distortions of the values we uphold.
madam president, a number of surveys conducted in the member states show that domestic workers face a number of problems, including low pay, discrimination, heavy workload, inappropriate behaviour by employers and even sexual harassment. but while they have these problems, they are not treated as workers and are therefore not protected by international conventions and european union case law. it is therefore imperative that the terminology be changed from 'domestic helpers' to 'domestic workers' and that matters of contracts and employment relations be regulated. the adoption of an ilo convention on domestic workers will be a first step in filling the existing gap by securing rights in relation to their employment, wage increases, setting criteria for employers, or even clarifying that domestic workers should not necessarily live in the home of their employer. in this effort, the european union, in cooperation with the member states, should seek to amend existing legislation to cover domestic workers, but first and foremost encourage cooperation between member states and the exchange of best practices.
madam president, a week ago presidents buzek, barroso and van rompuy met with representatives of the religions and discussed democratic rights and political freedoms. i would like to congratulate president barroso on the initiative he took in 2005 to launch this dialogue with religious leaders; i would also like to congratulate the presidents of parliament and of the council for continuing this dialogue on an annual basis. at the same time, however, i would like to join my voice to those religious representatives who have called on them to exert the influence of the european union to stop the persecution of christians in countries such as egypt and iraq, but also within european territory, in european cyprus, where the occupying power is preventing christians from entering their occupied churches and forbidding priests and hierarchs from celebrating mass there. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures.
mr president, as shadow rapporteur i welcome the hirsch report because it stresses the importance of continuous capacity for learning and work, mobility and flexibility in the modern and demanding international working environment. it is true that the economic crisis has brought unemployment and insecurity to all, and especially to young people, women and the disabled. achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy requires continuous, sound vocational education and training both in the european union and in the member states. targeted policies and strategies are needed to reduce the rate of early school leavers, to plan properly for people's training needs, and to link the training offered more closely to the needs of the labour market. i am sure that the european qualifications framework, the european system of academic credits for vocational education and training, transparency and cooperation, and the comparability of the different education systems will support exactly the needs... (speaker interrupted)
mr president, commissioner, according to the coelho report, romania and bulgaria are, on the basis of the expert assessments, sufficiently prepared to implement the provisions of the schengen acquis at their land, sea and air borders. they fulfil the same basic conditions and criteria as other member states for full membership of the schengen area. by supporting the full integration of these countries we demonstrate our community solidarity and support the european idea and the fundamental right of free movement of citizens within the european union, creating a stronger europe. as regards the concerns raised in the report about the increasing migratory pressures in the sensitive region of bulgaria, turkey and greece, these are contemporary challenges for the european union itself and the member states to find holistic pan-european approaches to effectively reinforce their external borders, strengthen frontex, demonstrate appropriate community solidarity and support the southern european member states receiving similar migratory flows. the current dialogue on modernising the schengen agreement must take account of the above challenges.
in writing. bulgaria and romania fulfil the necessary conditions for full membership of the schengen area, based on their progress assessments and the findings of the experts from the monitoring visit teams. however, the european parliament should be informed of the additional measures to be taken in the area between bulgaria, turkey and greece to deal with a possible increase in migration flows.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, much could be said about the european arrest warrant and its application by the member states. some have already been reported by colleagues. i would like to focus on one particular important aspect: full respect for human rights and procedural rights. suspects and defendants have rights both as human beings and as parties to a trial. but these are too often ignored. the detention and conditions of detention mentioned by mr cornelis de jong are typical examples. the main reason for this is that it is taken for granted that human rights are equally respected at a pan-european level. however, this is clearly not the case because certain rights are interpreted differently in different member states, such as the right to remain silent, or simply because certain procedures differ, such as the length of pre-trial detention periods. what are you going to do about it, commissioner? will you propose concrete measures such as the introduction of a special human rights provision allowing judges to examine the substance of cases, as is done in the united kingdom and ireland, or will they remain mere confirmatories of decisions of another member state? will you provide for the possibility of a hearing of the suspect or accused through which a judge will decide whether or not to send the individual to the country seeking him to avoid abuses such as extradition for political reasons? do you intend to propose such changes in the framework of the procedural rights roadmap or through an amendment to the european arrest warrant legislation?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − madam president, the global economic recession changed the economic landscape in the eu dramatically: it increased unemployment, reduced economic growth and impaired the business environment. cohesion policy needs to be an effective tool for responding to the socio-economic challenges brought about by the financial crisis and for reducing disparities between the levels of development of european regions. evaluation of the implementation of the cohesion policy programmes co-financed by the structural funds in the period 2007-2013 should reflect the impact of projects selected within the cohesion policy framework on the recovery of the european economy, particularly in terms of creating new jobs, reducing socio-economic disparities, enhancing social inclusion and improving human capital. however, at a time when the economic and financial crisis is heightening social inequalities, structural fund allocations to the member states are in decline. the commission should boost the effectiveness and public profile of the european social fund and, in cooperation with the member states, should secure strong synergies between the structural funds and relevant european policies, as well as promoting synergies that meet the changing demands of today’s labour market.
the reasons why man must be particularly careful and take all the necessary precautions in the matter of genetically modified organisms are well known. we must first be absolutely certain about their effect on human health. we must be increasingly concerned about soil erosion. but above all, mankind must show the utmost respect for the planetary balance and the possibility that the cultivation of such organisms could alter biodiversity and suddenly destroy what we know as the earth. we are opposed to both the cultivation of genetically modified organisms and their free integration into the food chain . the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is not a good one.
in writing. while we agree with the commission's proposal to allow member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory, we are opposed to the free trade of gm seeds, as this does not eliminate the risks to human health or the environment.
in writing. − eu member states should have the flexibility to ban or restrict the cultivation of genetically modified crops and should be able to cite environmental motives for doing so. the commission had proposed to grant eu member states the right to ban crops on all but health or environmental grounds, which were to be solely assessed by the european food safety authority. however, the parliament, committed to ensuring a firmer legal basis in the context of international trade rules, insisted that member states should not be prevented from stating additional environmental grounds. these could include pesticide resistance, biodiversity preservation or a lack of data on potential negative consequences on the environment, as well as socioeconomic impacts in cases where contamination risks to conventional or organic agriculture cannot practicably be managed.
mr president, it is unacceptable that there is no reaction by the security council to the developments in syria. international humanitarian law transcends the narrow notion of non-interference in the internal affairs of states and the danger to peace and security cannot concern only states, but also the security of individuals. russia and china must be convinced to lift their opposition and allow the security council to condemn in the first instance the use of lethal force perpetrated against civilians, who must enjoy freedom of assembly, expression and peaceful demonstration. on yemen, the gcc plan must be put into effect now, taking into account that ali abdullah saleh is out of the country for reasons of health and must be discouraged by saudi arabia from returning, for the same reasons. in bahrain, the national dialogue and the commission of inquiry appointed to investigate the events must also answer the question of why the shia majority is living in conditions of poor housing and in poverty within a rich country. because this is what it is all about. on libya, i support france for providing weapons to unarmed civilians in danger of massacre by the gaddafi forces, in conformity with resolution 1973. even a landing of special forces for a 24-hour clean-up operation and then withdrawal – let us say in zliten or al zawiya – is not an occupation force and is within the remit of resolution 1973. gaddafi’s departure must be hastened.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the arab world, and the european union has also expressed its views on the situation in the arab world. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. at some point, what happened in iran also gave the impression that the peoples of the region are turning to islam. but the arab spring came to overturn that impression. the arab uprisings, spontaneous and without ideological colour, are aimed at the establishment of democratic secular regimes. civil society has taken its fate into its own hands and is demanding the support of the international community to complete the overthrow by peaceful means, not by military interventions as in libya. it is in this context of peaceful popular action that the palestinian people are appealing to the united nations for recognition as a state. we, as the european union, must show solidarity with the rebellious peoples of north africa and palestine.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, can i begin by thanking véronique de keyser very much for her work. in her report, she says human rights must be central to all eu policies. i agree so much with that. i should also like to put on record my thanks to heidi hautala, who has now gone off to a new job but who did such a fantastic job as chair of the subcommittee on human rights. the report is very important. it is a great commentary on what we were able to do in terms of foreign policy and democracy, but it also enables us to consider the responsibilities we have to ensure that people in all countries benefit from the same rights as us. we cannot take those rights for granted. while, of course, the middle east and north africa are in the spotlight, we know that in belarus, president lukashenko continues to suppress any form of opposition, and that is why we led a cross-regional initiative to record our condemnation of belarus at the june meeting of the un human rights council. the resolution was adopted by an overwhelming majority. i raise that example to show that this policy of engagement, a policy where we work with the people on the ground but are clear in our stance against regimes, is very important. at the un we were very active last year, not least because of the review of the un human rights council. we had some real successes in geneva, including the renewal of the mandates of various un special rapporteurs – on burma, dprk, sudan, somalia, cambodia and haiti – and resolutions on the drc, guinea, kurdistan and freedom of religion, a very important issue that is often raised in this chamber. we also reached all our objectives at the third committee of the general assembly in new york. the resolution in favour of a moratorium on the death penalty was passed with great support, and a resolution against religious intolerance was adopted by consensus. we celebrated, too, in 2010 the tenth anniversary of resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, and we adopted a set of indicators to monitor our progress on it. all these are examples of what can be achieved when the eu speaks as one. the fact that we speak at the un as one now offers even greater potential. it is right, too, that we review our policies to ensure, as ms de keyser says, that ‘values, consistency and a genuine culture of results’ are absolutely at the heart of them. the report goes on to stress the need to develop further the political dimension of our work, to match what we do on development. we have a good basis for doing that, though i am sure it will not be easy. these strands were brought together in the policy of ‘democracy support’ set out in our council conclusions of november 2009. we went on to designate 12 countries for pilot implementation of our ‘agenda for action’. so, too, when we think about the idea of a ‘european endowment for democracy’, for me the capacity to help young people, in particular, to join that democratic dialogue by using new technology will play an important part in advancing that process. sometimes we have to be bold, and i think that is essential in terms of how we now approach the report and take this work forward. i believe that we have to choose stability and democracy; i believe that we need to be creative in our response to these rapidly evolving challenges. no simple task to deliver, but i think this contribution enriches our debate and helps us move towards achieving it.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. − madam president, i agree with véronique de keyser that women are a vital part of a well-functioning democracy. they can play an important role in establishing a democratic culture, deeply rooted in society. the recent revolutions in north africa and the middle east sent a strong message that the empowerment of women and their equal and active participation in decision-making and conflict resolution is a crucial element and a prerequisite for a successful democratisation process and for the socio-economic development of third countries. we therefore stress the crucial role of the eu in promoting gender equality and mainstreaming in its external relations with third countries. this can be done through various programmes and the exchange of best practices and know-how and by assuring the availability of necessary funding for education, training, awareness-raising and empowerment for women as well as for the continuous fight against gender violence, stereotypes and discrimination.
mr president, lady ashton, i will start a little earlier than the kazan meeting by reminding you that if the uprising of the people of nagorno-karabakh were to take place today, alongside the uprisings of the arab peoples against tyrannical and unjust regimes, i am sure it would have our full sympathy and the active support of the european community. the same would be true in nakhchivan, an area with an identical indigenous population, if that population still existed, but unfortunately it has disappeared. the european union is not involved in the conflict, and the source of the weapons is a matter of concern to us. i'm not saying we should send bombers to the caucasus! on the contrary, we must actively support the peace process by all means, with a visible and substantial presence of the european union in the caucasus. on the other hand, we have for many years been witnessing azerbaijan, which has been denounced many times internationally, and especially in the parliamentary assembly of the organization for security and cooperation in europe, pursuing a terrifying arms policy. we see the government of azerbaijan, instead of striving for the development and welfare of the azerbaijani people, having at its disposal enormous mineral wealth, spending it on armaments. on the other hand, we are naturally concerned because armenia, a country which has been under economic embargo for many years, has now entered the arms race. there is a savage embargo by all the neighboring countries. and of course armenia must withdraw from occupied territories in the karabakh plain, as turkey must withdraw from cyprus, but i think that everything should be resolved on the basis of law and not on the basis of where each one buys his equipment.
mr president, for years the republic of cyprus has been exercising its sovereign rights by exploring the natural resources of the country. i would remind you that the turkish government has repeatedly harassed and tried to obstruct this inquiry, as noted both by the council and by the european commission reports. today, as the moment approaches when the republic of cyprus will proceed on the basis of international offers with the whole process of drilling within its exclusive economic zone, the turkish government, in violation of international law, openly threatens a member state of the european union such as cyprus. we call on the european union to support a member state in the exercise of its sovereign rights, the benefits of which, once the cyprus problem is resolved, will benefit both communities and its people, greek cypriots and turkish cypriots.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the events that shocked cyprus on 11 july; that is to say, the explosion that took place at the evangelos florakis naval base, which caused 13 deaths and injured 61 people as well as destroying the island’s biggest power station at vasilikos. in the aftermath of the explosion, the total damage to the economy of cyprus is estimated to be more than eur 3 billion. this situation becomes much more serious – not only for cyprus, but for the whole eu – given the generally fragile economy across europe. under the circumstances, and in the light of the cypriot presidency of the eu, in my capacity as mep for cyprus i would like to ask the eu to express its active solidarity with my country by providing sufficient funds for the restitution and reparation of the losses. i have already tabled a relevant question to the responsible (....) (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i too will speak about turkey's threats of war against the republic of cyprus and its offensive and insulting attitude which is not only an insult against cyprus, which it does not recognise, but also against the whole of the european union, and is a threat to stability in the eastern mediterranean and to security in the region. that is why he has appended the stern statements of both mr füle and baroness ashton. it is not to be expected that cyprus can open the energy chapter to such behaviour from a country which is in flagrant violation of international law and the law of the sea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are also asking for the european union's solidarity in order to put an end to this behaviour on the part of turkey. if turkey does not comply, it should be excluded from the european union and the accession procedures should be stopped immediately.
madam president, the european union is right to seek to develop women's entrepreneurship by co-financing innovative smes with micro-credit. however, it's time to pick up the pace. in addition to the need to combat gender inequalities and reconcile family and professional obligations, emphasis should be placed on financial and educational support for women entrepreneurs through business mentoring programmes at the start and throughout their business activities, familiarization with new information and communication technologies - because they open up new horizons and opportunities for innovative employment - and finally, inclusion of specific programmes and activities in school and university curricula and promotion of positive role models to boost self-confidence and entrepreneurship development.
madam president, it is a fact that the elderly, those aged 55 to 64, are subject to ageism, age discrimination. women in particular experience this discrimination, but they also face other gender discrimination based on gender, stereotypes, poor health or disability. it is hopeful that 2012 will be a year of active support because it offers a unique opportunity to further raise awareness of the need to mainstream gender and age in all policies, precisely to avoid social exclusion and all forms of racism against older people. in an ageing europe we cannot afford to regard the ageing of the population as a socioeconomic burden. instead, we have an obligation to fight prejudice, support active ageing with programs and activities, and ensure equal access for all to health care and long-term care.
madam president, it is true that the improvement of frontex was an important issue. at the same time, the reform achieved contributes to the better functioning of frontex. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in any case, the presence of the special teams controlling the borders until 2011, but above all the position of the inspector, in order to really ensure that the fundamental rights that every person wants to claim when he enters the european union are respected, are arrangements which are important and are achieved through this report. finally, i would like to believe that for countries which are receiving a large flow of migrants, such as cyprus, and which are currently facing demographic and economic problems, some decisions will probably be taken, in the context of solidarity, which will be supportive of the efforts being made in cyprus.
commissioner, in its six years of existence, frontex has faced many challenges due to illegal migration flows from north africa, the middle east and asia to the countries of the european south, which are under disproportionate pressure and asylum requests and need practical assistance. however, frontex now needs a renewed mandate, more resources and means and a better system of guarding the european union's borders everywhere and, in particular, in greece, cyprus, malta and italy by using border guards, in accordance with the solidarity clause. with the new regulation we are supporting frontex to better guard the external borders of the european union, to supervise the european union's labour agreements with third countries, to contribute to the voluntary repatriation of illegal immigrants, always with respect for human rights. however, in addition to strengthening frontex, the european union must, on the one hand, put pressure on turkey to stop channelling illegal immigrants through greece and my occupied country, cyprus, and, on the other hand, give practical support to the countries of the european south.
in writing. the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the eu (frontex) will develop its own code of conduct to ensure full respect for human rights in all missions, including return operations, while appointing a special inspector to monitor the respect for fundamental rights in its actions. this is the most important reform of the legislation governing frontex which must be further strengthened and made more efficient. it is also of great importance that the agency's tasks will include assisting member states in cases of urgent humanitarian crisis and rescue operations at sea.
in writing. offshore sources are the fourth largest production area in the world and are vital to meeting europe's energy needs and our energy security. each site, each installation should be assessed for its specific risk and regulators should only allow drilling if they believe that the risks of that installation can be managed, and this should be the case in the arctic and in each sea area. this is why offshore oil or gas drilling in the eu should only be allowed if the company concerned submits a contingency plan in advance and demonstrates that it has sufficient funds to repair potential damage to the environment.
mr president, the reconstruction of libya, as all the speakers have pointed out, requires the european union's support. the european union must be able to play a leading role in the development of the arab world, and the arab world must be able to play a leading role in the development of the arab world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. given turkey's adventurous attitude in eastern europe today, given turkey's attempt to establish a leading presence in libya, we must understand that the european union, if it wants to keep turkey on the path to european union membership, must help these arab peoples and, in particular, libya, so that turkey does not remain the only example for libya.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, honourable members, it is again my pleasure to address you on behalf of the high representative and vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton. the situation in syria continues to be bleak. the regime has not stopped its violent repression and nearly every day we hear reports of syrians being killed, injured, detained or abused. the overall death toll of the bloody campaign is said to be far beyond 2 000 people. the syrian leadership confirms again and again that it is unwilling to listen to anyone, be it the eu or neighbouring countries in the region. in this perspective, we can have no doubt that our clear position on the syrian regime is right and needs to be maintained. bashar al-assad has lost all credibility due to the many promises he has repeatedly made and failed to fulfil. he has also lost his legitimacy as a result of the continuous large-scale use of brutal force against the syrian people. there is no way forward for syria with this regime, and we think president al-assad should now step aside. i am pleased to say that the eu has been able to accompany its strong position with adequate actions. we have swiftly broadened our restrictive measures and are progressively targeting, with asset freezes and travel bans, more and more of those responsible for the ongoing repression and, from now on, those supporting the regime. importantly, we have introduced an embargo on the import of syrian oil. we expect it will have a major impact on the regime’s financial situation, since the eu consumes more than 90% of the oil syria exports. we are going ahead for as long as necessary with further measures, including a suspension of new investments in the oil sector. it is essential for us to explain properly why we have taken all these actions against the syrian regime. given the strength of our measures against the syrian regime, we must be proactive and well-coordinated in communicating with our partners and public opinion in syria and elsewhere. we must make it clear that we are targeting our sanctions so that we can ultimately achieve a halt to the violence and assist the syrian people to accomplish their legitimate aspirations. we must also reach out to the countries of the region which have increasingly expressed concern about the present situation in syria. their calls for an end to the continuous violence, and their appeals to the syrian regime for a complete change of attitude, match our own efforts and open the way for more concertation between us. this is even more relevant with regard to the arab league, which has recently been in contact with the syrian authorities and has tried to promote a more open approach in damascus. one cannot but recognise that so far these attempts have not been successful, but that must not prevent the european union from maintaining close contact with those regional partners which could, in a not-too-distant future, play a significant role in the evolution of syria. finally, we must not forget about syria’s future. rightly, we ask questions about what comes next and what it will mean for the syrian people, for the situation in the region and for others, including ourselves. we should do our best to know the alternatives and the different opposition groups, whether abroad or inside syria. let me be very clear. it is time to encourage those who are capable of offering syria a better future to unite and show political maturity and commitment to the values we share. we need to repeat time and again that there must be a peaceful political transition to democracy, led and owned by the whole syrian people and free from violence. i believe the syrian people can accomplish this. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, over 2 600 people have lost their lives due to the lethal force used by the syrian authorities against unarmed civilian demonstrators. this has continued for the last five months and the regime shows no signs of changing policy. this is an intolerable situation. for how long will the international community continue to be a spectator to such bloodshed? shame on the security council for not being able until now to agree on a resolution, contenting themselves with a mere statement. one wonders how russia and china can remain passive towards these cold-blooded massive assassinations. the eu, the council and high representative have correctly widened sanctions and used strict language of condemnation, but the time has come to toughen our approach towards russia and china, as french foreign minister alain juppé has done. surely it cannot be business as usual if the two permanent members fail in their duties. it is also shameful to me that it took five months for the arab league to undertake an initiative, and although details are unknown, i doubt if the syrian people would be able to accept any arrangement falling short of their legitimate aspirations, and especially to be governed by those whose hands are stained with their blood. the more people are killed, the more it becomes apparent that the regime has crossed the rubicon.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, on 23 september the president of the palestinian authority will be asking the united nations general assembly to recognize the state of palestine. the palestinians are doing this after strenuous efforts to meet their obligations to the quartet because they believe that the recognition of their state by the international organization will give impetus to the resumption of negotiations with israel, which have been at a complete dead end for a long time. as you know, the quartet, which includes the european union, committed itself to a two-state solution by september 2011. the one state, israel, exists. the other was built by the palestinians, with the completion of prime minister fayyad's project. and now this state is waiting to receive the international recognition it deserves, in the expectation that, as a now recognized state of the international community, it will join on equal terms in negotiations with israel to achieve a viable solution to their problem. in addition to the talks to resolve the political issue, an upgrade of the status of the palestinians would help resolve other minor - but important - issues, such as security, water resources, refugees and the status of jerusalem. the european union's stated position is that it supports the palestinian demand, but it must be put forward, they say, at the right time.
mr president, the eu is called upon to play an important role at the vote on the resolution of the general assembly on palestinian statehood. after the success of eu countries within nato in libya, the relevance of the eu as an international actor will be tested if it succeeds on this occasion in having a common position, and is pivotal in arriving at a un resolution that is acceptable to all which can get the peace process going. the wording of the resolution matters: a single ‘yes’ and the ensuing reactions of israel and the american congress risk causing irremediable damage to the peace process; a single ‘no’ will jeopardise the credibility of the palestinian authority in the eyes of its own people, will encourage extremists and will further alienate the arab world. perhaps it should be: ‘upgrade palestine to a status similar to that of the vatican or kosovo; acknowledge the entitlement of the palestinians to an independent state on the basis of the 1967 borders, as described by president obama in his recent statement, as soon as all the appropriate conditions have been met; acknowledge the entitlement of israel to exist demographically as jewish in character within internationally recognised borders and with all its security concerns guaranteed; oppose all unilateral actions, including new facts on the ground and settlement expansions; call for the resumption of direct negotiations guided by the above principles; and review the resolution in 12 months.’
mr president, i strongly support the resolution on ncds and call on the commission to raise, in new york, the issue of cardiovascular disease and stroke, the major cause of preventable and premature deaths in europe. for stroke survivors, the consequences can be devastating, giving rise to severe mental or physical disabilities, and for the eu health care system the burden is significant. yet risk factors are easily identifiable. in a resolution on action to tackle cardiovascular disease adopted in july 2007, the european parliament called on the commission to propose a recommendation on cardiovascular disease and on early identification of high-risk individuals and prevention strategies in europe. however, at this stage, the commission is still not planning a specific eu strategy on cardiovascular diseases. i therefore call on the commission first to develop a future eu strategy to tackle cvd and then to support the development of eu guidelines on tackling stroke risk factors, such as atrial fibrillation, and on screening and diagnosis, taking into account the success of the recent eu alzheimer’s strategy and eu cancer strategy.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. - the mr president, as the committee on women's rights, we believe that women's entrepreneurship provides dynamism and innovation in business and contributes to increasing the employment rate of women, which is one of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. however, there are untapped female reserves in the field of research and innovation. women researchers experience discrimination, perpetuated stereotypes, the phenomena of the 'glass ceiling' and the 'leakage pipeline', insufficient funding and unequal opportunities for advancement. we therefore call for the integration of the gender dimension into the common strategic framework and the proper use of structural funds and cohesion policies so that women researchers can develop innovative business projects, participate in educational and scientific programmes, have sufficient mobility and participate in networking platforms. finally, we propose that an action plan on gender equality be included as part of the common strategic framework, ensuring fair allocation of funding on the basis of research, indicators and data from the european research council.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. i hope you are aware that at this time cyprus is effectively cut off from the turkish war machine, from the turkish warships patrolling very close to our shores, from the turkish air force flying over cyprus and our seas. do you think that this promotes international trade, trade with third countries? do you consider this to be the behaviour of a candidate country? mr füle, will you include this attitude of turkey in your reports: and how long will such behaviour towards a small and weak state be tolerated? the european union must react by occupying the whole of cyprus?
member of the commission. − needless to say, we are following the developments in and around cyprus very closely. as far as i know, later today in this plenary there is going to be a discussion on the issue specifically relating to the drilling and hydrocarbon project in cyprus, which has an exclusive economic zone around it. the first point i would like to make is that the very first priority there is to reach a comprehensive settlement. both parties, both leaders, made a commitment to the secretary-general of the united nations – if i am not mistaken – on 7 july not to be distracted and to focus solemnly on reaching a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus issue. it was in that regard that we made a very clear statement on behalf of the commission. we also made it absolutely clear, on behalf of the commission, that it is the right of cyprus to delimit its exclusive economic zone and to conclude treaties with third countries if that is in accordance with the acquis and international treaties. that commitment to cyprus was repeated in the council declaration last year. following on from this, we have taken a number of steps to calm the situation around the drilling, which started just a couple of days ago. because of that we have not seen some of the threats by turkey actually being delivered. needless to say, our line is very clear. all the problems need to be solved through peaceful means, and if necessary through arbitration before the international court of justice. any threats of the use of force need to be rejected. we are continuing to monitor the situation.
i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. the turkish prime minister made statements yesterday to the turkish news agency, which i quote, in which he described the entire mediterranean as a turkish lake and said that turkey would do whatever it wanted there. i am simply stating this as a warning to the european union of what it is facing, because at this moment the principles, values and interests of the european union are being affected.
in writing. in a time of severe economic crisis, tourism can undoubtedly play an important role in growth, employment and progress, and maintain europe as the number one tourist destination on a global scale. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the rapporteur that proper vocational training and specialisation, the use of 'erasmus' programmes for young entrepreneurs, vigorous investment in innovative sectors and the promotion of 'digital technology' so that smes can become more competitive by exploiting new technologies are constructive approaches. however, i am convinced that what is important is to include in the 2014-2020 budgetary perspective specific programmes to promote and highlight all the regions of europe and also to support these programmes in practice, with attractive and affordable packages for all, and especially for young people, within a more rational policy framework for tourism in europe.
madam president, the official palestinian demand for full membership of the united nations will be examined in the weeks to come and negotiations will take place between members of the security council. full membership status will be vetoed by the united states. if matters come to that point the palestinians will address themselves to the general assembly. the quartet has called for the resumption of direct talks on the middle east process, to last twelve months, the first three to be devoted to borders and security. from the above, our previous position that the issue is not a clear ‘yes’ or a clear ‘no’ to the palestinian request is the wisest approach. certain principles must guide the position of parliament: the european union must reach a unanimous position on the developments and play an important role in the negotiations that follow; any outcome must have due regard for the dignity of both sides; it must be taken into account that the status quo is unacceptable and all efforts should be towards the resumption of direct peace negotiations, as called for by the quartet; we oppose any unilateral actions including new facts on the ground or the expansion of settlements. it would be wrong at the present stage for our resolution to pre-empt the outcome of these diplomatic efforts. any partisan approach endangers the negotiating process and weakens the possibility of the catalytic role to be played by the european union.
madam president, i too would like to contribute to today's debate by pointing out that our actions and attitudes are indeed the right ones and that the time has certainly come for the recognition of a palestinian state and that this political line, with a correct proposal from our side, should also be supported at the level of the united nations general assembly. secondly, i would like to underline that i very much appreciate the action of mrs ashton in this period, to show that she has at least succeeded in expressing a united line on behalf of the european union on such an important issue. the fact is that a continued effort on its part will be able to achieve a single foreign policy for the european union as a whole, particularly on topical issues which are of great importance and which concern the enormous efforts of peoples for their national survival.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, the republic of cyprus, acting according to international law and having signed agreements with its neighbouring countries, has initiated an official exploration within its exclusive economic zone for hydrocarbons. turkey has never accepted this legitimate fact. in 2008, turkish warships repeatedly harassed the vessels conducting oceanographic research in cyprus’s exclusive economic zone. in the light of the drilling process, turkey, at the highest governmental level, has repeatedly threatened cyprus, demanding that it abandon its lawful rights. the threats are becoming facts. warships have been dispatched, and a so-called agreement with the occupied part of cyprus for exploring the exclusive economic zone of cyprus concluded. the un convention on the law of the sea was ratified by the european union and is thus part of the acquis which turkey, as all european union candidate countries, is expected to respect and be bound by. instead, it chooses to ignore it. turkey is undermining the sovereign rights of an eu member state and community law. it is escalating its unilateral action, jeopardising the peace process for the solution of the cyprus problem and endangering stability in the mediterranean sea. my group strongly believes that any further instability in the region would be to the detriment of the people of the region and of the eu itself. the eu must send turkey a very clear and strong message that its action is violating international and european law and that it has to stop. this behaviour is unacceptable. there is now an even greater need for eu solidarity with cyprus, and we call upon the un council to demonstrate similar solidarity in a very clear manner.
mrs ashton, with all due respect, the policy of equal distance which you have presented to us today without acknowledging the aggressive and unfair behaviour of either side is not in keeping with the system of principles and values which you are obliged and committed to uphold. mr füle, why are you calling for restraint on the part of the republic of cyprus? did he put the 6th fleet on patrol in the eastern mediterranean ? turkey is invited, mr füle! what do you expect cyprus to do? what he has done, he has done within the framework of international law, international conventions, as every state in the world does. the republic of cyprus is the only recognised state on the island of cyprus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. instead of seeing at this moment the dangers facing cyprus, the security in the eastern mediterranean, the system of values which we are committed to defending, you are taking a neutral stance and telling us anything but what is relevant to the subject we are discussing tonight.
madam president, i would like to endorse in principle what mr swoboda has said about this crisis. i would like to make a few points which have not been made by previous speakers. first of all, the crisis is not about turkey and cyprus, it is about turkey and the european union, the eastern borders of the european union. and it is well known that turkey, in its attempt to exploit and extend its own exclusive economic zone, is also questioning the possibility of greek islands, and in particular kastellorizo and all the islands nearby, having an exclusive economic zone. so turkey, in an attempt to create a hot episode, announces its own exclusive economic zone, because it has not signed the law of the sea that the entire european union has signed and, more or less, it is seeking to claim about half of the eastern mediterranean. the area where the research is being carried out is opposite egypt, i.e. at the southernmost tip of the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus. and beyond that, turkey links this particular episode with the talks, with the presidency of the republic of cyprus, and with the lack of recognition of the republic of cyprus. the turkish navy is present in the region, which unfortunately we are now seeing other countries controlling - it is reported that american planes from sicily are monitoring turkish submarines. the same is true of israel, whereas on our side, unfortunately, the european union itself has very little room for manoeuvre. i would like to conclude, mrs ashton, by saying that until the time comes for the european union to have a common foreign policy and a common defence policy, we have a long way to go. let's all help solve this incident.
madam president, the key for this debate is the united nations convention on the law of the sea. the law of the sea does not suit turkey. to the detriment of all cypriots – greek cypriots and turkish cypriots alike – turkey is trying to serve her own interests and not the interests of the cypriots, with threats and faits accomplis devoid of any legal basis. it is the same turkey that ignores the rules of the european union. yesterday it was the extension of the ankara protocol, today it threatens to freeze its relations with the eu during the cypriot presidency. turkey abides by no rule. i subscribe, commissioner, to your call for a successful outcome of the talks for a settlement, but i urge you to study the statement by mr erdogan in cyprus that leaves no room for mr eroğlu to have a conciliatory stance. the drilling will not affect the talks unless somebody is looking for an excuse. turkey should not be encouraged, mr watson, by your saying that you are not surprised by it behaving like a bully.
madam president, i denounce the turkish threats against cyprus. ankara is violating international law and the un convention on the law of the sea, which is part of the european acquis. it has not signed, respects and applies this treaty, it sends warships to the eastern mediterranean creating tension, it illegally attempts to create an exclusive economic zone with the pseudo-state. although a candidate country for accession, it does not recognise the republic of cyprus, which is a member of the united nations and the european union and which has the sovereign right to explore and exploit its natural resources. turkey is acting as a terrorist state in the eastern mediterranean. i call on the european parliament, the european union and especially mrs ashton and mr füle to put an end to the policy of equal distances and, more specifically: - first, not to open any chapter, and especially the energy chapter; - secondly, to warn turkey that any continuation of threats will mean the immediate end of its accession process; - thirdly, i ask mrs oomen-ruijten to record in her annual report on the evaluation of turkey that if these threats continue, its accession process will be terminated. mr rouček, do you not think that when you talk about restraint on both sides, you are essentially keeping equal distances and equating the offender and the victim? do you not think that you are blackmailing the cypriots when you say that any breakdown of the talks leads to a division and permanent disintegration? mr watson, why are you avoiding condemning turkey when it is clearly violating the law of the sea, while cyprus respects and applies it? i want straight answers.
in writing. − (on behalf of the ppe group) the ppe group has voted in favour of the resolution, which contains the word ‘contiguous.’ for us the word ‘contiguous’ concerns the territory of the west bank within the borders to be agreed by the two sides on the basis of the 1967 borders, which will be contiguous without fragmentations. it does not concern a contiguous space between the gaza strip and the west bank.
madam president, it has already been mentioned that 80 million european citizens live with disabilities in the european union. this is equivalent to a rate of 16%. of these, one in four is at risk of living below the poverty line, while only 30 to 40% are employed. they face obstacles, both physical and social, low employment rates and social exclusion. however, their fate should not be determined by their innate characteristics. they have a right to equal opportunities in life. i congratulate mr kósa on his innovative proposals. i agree that they should be integrated and implemented in the commission's new 10-year disability strategy, because we need solutions that ensure better access for people with disabilities to services, products and new technologies, equal opportunities for access to digital literacy, appropriate education and training systems and a design for all that ensures accessibility, independent living, free movement and the implementation of e-europe initiatives. only by making the best use of the sme sector can we achieve the 75% employment target of the europe 2020 strategy.
mr president, the release last week of israeli soldier gilad shalit by hamas, in exchange for the release of more than 1,000 palestinian prisoners, has rightly aroused feelings of joy and optimism on both sides - and not only. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it can proceed to the gradual lifting of the blockade of gaza, the gradual release of all palestinian prisoners, the freezing of settlements, while hamas, for its part, can put a definitive end to the firing of rockets against israel. the european union is also committed to the principle of non-discrimination, and we are convinced that the european union must be able to take action to combat discrimination against women and girls. otherwise shalit's release in exchange for the release of a large number of palestinian prisoners could encourage - something we all want - the kidnapping of other israeli soldiers in the hope of exchanging them for palestinians still held in prisons.
in writing. the structures of the international monetary fund must be revised at last, in order to make it a more political institution, to stop political intervention in exchange rates and to establish global rules that separate speculative banking from traditional banking. the g20 members should agree to a global financial transaction tax, alongside stronger financial regulation and supervision at the global level. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year.
madam president, europe has lost 5.6 million jobs in the labour market since the start of the financial crisis. the recession and unemployment are rampant, especially among young people. the work is disorganized. to address the crisis, the 'european union 2020' strategy is being promoted with seven flagship initiatives. the aim is to increase the employment rate for men and women to 75%. the agenda for new skills and jobs is being promoted with the aim of immediate labour market reforms with greater flexibility and security, investment in training, continuous upskilling and worker mobility, encouraging employment with reduced administrative burdens. it is all right and we agree completely. however, the commission's proposed agenda should adopt more measures on investment in public education, strengthening pension systems and green economy jobs, more measures to reconcile family and work obligations and, above all, strengthening social protection. what is needed today is proper planning and effective employment, education and training policies so that the qualifications and skills of workers are better adapted to the needs of the labour market today, not tomorrow. the future has begun. they're here!
in writing. the budget we voted on today, which is expected to be adopted in december next, if agreed with the council, is intended to boost growth, employment and innovation in the eu. it invests in research, provides for increased payments to the structural funds, the cohesion fund and programmes related to the europe 2020 development strategy. it also envisages increasing expenditure on managing refugee and migration flows and strengthening maritime border controls in the mediterranean. however, the expenditure for the external border management agency frontex is insufficient, at a time when this agency is playing a very important role in the protection of the external and maritime borders in the mediterranean and in the surveillance of the greek-turkish borders, given the increased migratory flows through turkey from north african countries and other third countries. i also think that more priority and more funds should be given to the new european financial supervisory authorities in a time of financial crisis.
i'm the editor. - the mr president, on behalf of my political group i would like to express our surprise at the way the council has handled the issue of resettling refugees. the council's position is not yet clear to us, because it has done nothing during the long period that has elapsed since the agreement was concluded at first reading. as we all know, member states can already benefit from funds from the european refugee fund. indeed, to encourage member states to resettle refugees because, in general, they have very low resettlement rates on a global scale the member states of the european union receive eur 4,000 per refugee. the agreement we have reached together is simply an upgrade of current practice, providing for higher financial aid, 6 instead of 4 thousand euros, to the member states which have never resettled refugees so that they can develop the appropriate infrastructure. since this creates a situation where no one loses, but most of us win, i really do not understand why this agreement has been blocked in the council for so long and why the member states are doing nothing. i would ask the council representative to give us an explanation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, as other colleagues have said before, the agreement between parliament and the council contains some positive elements, which my own political group agrees with, such as the fight against sex tourism. but my group does not share the enthusiasm of my colleagues for the final form of the report. and while i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur for the endless hours of work she has devoted to this subject, i would like to underline three main reasons why my group will not be able to support the report. first, because of its legal basis, this directive adopts an overwhelmingly criminal approach to the issue of child sexual abuse, which does not allow for the development of appropriate support and protection for victims. secondly, it places a disproportionate emphasis on the online world, despite the fact that such crimes occur in most cases in the real world, as the internet is mainly a means of mass dissemination of images depicting crime. thirdly, it introduces for the first time in european legislation provisions to block access to certain internet sites, thus creating a precedent which may prove inadequate in relation to future court decisions in this area.
madam president, there is no doubt that the sexual abuse of minors stigmatizes children throughout their lives. despite the lack of statistics, studies show that in the european union 10 to 20% of minors have been victims of sexual violence. the perpetrators are usually members of their own social circle. today, with the rapid development of new technologies, mobile phones and the internet, there is a parallel increase in child pornography and sexual exploitation websites, with victims of increasingly younger ages being targeted by skilled paedophiles. the angelilli report and the proposal for a directive propose a pan-european framework of action to prevent and combat sexual abuse, exploitation and pornography of minors. i would like to congratulate mrs angelilli in particular for including in her report many of the points of the council of europe's label for the protection of children, setting out minimum penalties, strict sanctions and actions against grooming, proposing the seizure of pornographic material and blocking of websites. i believe that this convention should be ratified by all and that we should all work together to achieve zero tolerance for the sexual abuse of minors.
mr president, we welcome the content of mrs jean lambert's report, not only because it makes the treatment of both asylum seekers and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection more favourable, but above all because it adds to their identical and equal treatment in all the member states. in addition, beneficiaries of subsidiary protection are given more substantial privileges by this report, which, apart from the humanitarian aspect of the matter, prevents some from having recourse to it, even though they may know that they are not entitled to it, in the process of applying for political asylum. i think it is very important to add, however, that the member states should also provide a means of alleviating the pressure on those countries which are most affected by the migratory flows, such as the countries of the south, namely malta, italy, greece and cyprus. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that the member states are not able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the social dimension of the internal market is not compromised. it would be better, i conclude, if the commission were to bring together the whole 'asylum package' because its piecemeal approval - in addition to delays - raises doubts about the intentions of implementing the requirements for asylum seekers.
in writing. we welcome the agreement reached at the summit after long consultations. we hope that this will be the beginning of the way out of the crisis. however, we remain wary of whether the neoliberal prescriptions being promoted will have the expected results, since the same prescriptions have led to disaster. he needs a more radical view of things. we also note that the measures taken today should have been taken much earlier. unfortunately, greece and the greek people are experiencing the dramatic consequences of a policy of austerity that has been imposed on them, after the failure to take comprehensive pan-european measures to combat the crisis and the delay in showing the necessary community solidarity. similar problems are facing citizens of other countries in the european south. we also stress that stability without growth and without an integrated investment strategy and a crackdown on tax evasion is not a solution. the european parliament must be involved in the decision-making process to get out of the crisis, together with the european council and the european commission.
in writing. the report by jean lambert on the recognition and status of third country nationals or stateless persons as beneficiaries of international protection represents a very important improvement on the current situation facing asylum seekers, as it aims to harmonise member states' practice by establishing common criteria for its recognition. it also defines the content of such protection and finally recognises a minimum level of benefits and entitlements. some of the particularly encouraging elements of the report concern respect for the principle of family unity, the best interests of the child and gender identity as a factor in assessing the grounds for persecution. i therefore voted in favour of the report on these points, but i must express my strong opposition to its exclusion from the asylum package. this important project consists of six legislative proposals which must be considered and voted on as a whole. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up, and that the council will be able to make a decision on the matter.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, as you know, the european commission announced, through the directorate-general for health and consumers, that it would present the new act on consumer rights in may/june 2012. the european parliament has therefore undertaken to draw up an own-initiative report to put its stamp on the new act. the draft report was originally commissioned by eva-britt svensson on behalf of my political group, but she had to abandon it after resigning for health reasons, so i was given the task of completing it. i would like to thank eva-britt for her work on this report and wish her well in the face of her health problems. both eva-britt initially and the subsequent speeches, we wanted to identify the weaknesses and omissions of the system and to include provisions for consumer empowerment. the main objectives of the draft report as set out in the proposed preliminary draft were to highlight the problems faced by citizen-consumers, to reduce to the point of elimination the disparities between consumers and between consumers' relations with companies, to ensure consumer rights in general and with particular emphasis on e-commerce, to ensure the effectiveness of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, to increase product safety and a high level of consumer protection, to focus on vulnerable groups of the population with a view to a better social europe, to improve consumer access to social welfare services, to reduce ecology and sustainability, to reduce the exposure of consumers to harmful substances in food, such as fats and oils in processed foods, to protect children from the dangers of food waste, and to protect children from the dangers of food waste in the food industry. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in an attempt to include as many views as possible in the report without distorting its character, we drafted, with the cooperation of the shadow rapporteurs, sixteen compromise amendments and finally the report as it stood was put to the vote in the committee on the internal market on 17/10/2011 and was passed by 23 votes to 0, with 10 abstentions. however, the draft as voted did not satisfy certain aspects of parliament: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's position on the directive is not distorted, because, while it was a report on the strategy for consumer protection policies, it was voted without reference to the objective of a more social europe and, at the same time, almost all references to dangerous carcinogenic chemicals were deleted, as was the position on the ban on direct television advertising aimed at children under 12. following this development, and after consulting all the political groups, we opened a new round of discussions which finally led to a commitment by all to support the compromise text proposed for vote tomorrow which highlights the problems facing consumers as the economic crisis makes them more vulnerable, seeks greater product safety, stresses the need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, calls for a high level of consumer and environmental protection, but expresses concern about the widespread advertising to which children are exposed and suggests ways of combating food spoilage. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and for their important contribution to the final text, so that consensus can be reached on the main aspects of the report and that everyone can commit to supporting it in the vote tomorrow.
in writing. the daerden report is excellent. it identifies the causes of poverty and social exclusion and proposes solutions. however, theoretical approaches do not solve the problem. the commission shall: (a) demonstrate a real political will to ensure adequate funding of initiatives and programmes to combat poverty and social exclusion, within the framework of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, throughout the european territory; (b) coordinate national reform programmes under the flagship initiative to reduce the number of people living below the poverty line by 20 million, under the eu 2020 strategy; (c) ensure that the european social fund contributes rationally, in a clear and transparent manner, to the fight against poverty among children, women, the elderly and migrant workers and to the prevention of early school leaving. i fully agree that a common platform against poverty and exclusion needs to be developed in each eu member state and a pan-european strategy at all levels of government with the active participation of ngos and european citizens.
mr president, the european union's budget for the developing countries is running a deficit of some eur 50 billion. at the same time, however, the effectiveness of development aid is considered insufficient and millions of european citizens are living below the poverty line, as many regions of the european union have emerged from the economic crisis. we are therefore obliged to make it a key issue to intensify controls on the management and efficiency of european citizens' money, especially now, in a period of severe economic crisis and intense efforts to save the euro and the eurozone. i have always been a strong supporter of the need to support the underdeveloped and developing countries with courage, because in the medium term this is to the benefit of the peoples of europe. but this cannot be done without adequate and strict controls to prevent the money of the european taxpayer from being lost in the black hole of corruption and negligence. and i'll go a little further than development aid: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i was recently in turkey, which is advertising that it is spending millions to become the hegemonic country in the region, in gaza, libya, the horn of africa, but on the other hand complains that it is getting crumbs from the european union. we want the money of the european citizens not to be used for armaments and nuclear programmes and multi-dimensional national policies, but for development projects.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that this accession will, as far as it can, revive the belief that together we can do better. i am not optimistic, and i hope even more that croatia's accession will not coincide with the breakdown of the euro and the dreams of so many decades. the 2011 progress report states that the accession process has given croatia a positive impetus for change, resulting in substantial progress in a number of areas. we too welcome the progress made in the field of refugee return, gender equality, combating discrimination and bridging the gap with neighbouring countries. the european union is also committed to the development of the croatian economy, and the european union is committed to the development of the croatian economy. unfortunately, proposals to promote a competitive liberal economy will burden the already difficult socioeconomic situation of the people. we should therefore support the promotion of genuine social development through the modernisation of the social protection system, with people-friendly measures to tackle economic problems and unemployment and to improve access to services, in particular health, housing and education.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. europe must have an effective single market, adapt its economy to the social needs of the market, but also strengthen solidarity, enable individual and collective achievements to be realised, and contribute to sustainable development. the single market act does not, in our view, seem to meet the needs of citizens today. we want society to regain its full and complete right to put the public interest above the interest of the markets. we want to restore social rights, put the protection of citizens, the preservation of jobs and working conditions above the rules of competition. we must prevent the further deterioration of social europe. the alternative we propose is simple, easy and clear: social needs must prevail over profits. we want all of humanity to share in this economic, social, political and cultural alternative.
mr president, concerning the item ‘statement by the vice-president/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu-russia summit’, i would like to request, on behalf of the epp group, that we ask her whether she can extend her statement and comment on recent developments as regards the elections in russia, as this event took place after the decision by the conference of presidents. (applause)
in writing. the eu will finance up to 95% of the cost of projects contributing to rural development in greece, ireland, portugal, latvia and romania, in order to contribute to their economic recovery by accelerating investment and boosting competitiveness. this increase in co-financing rates through the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) is necessary to ensure that countries facing liquidity problems due to the current unprecedented fiscal crisis, which is affecting their growth prospects and constraining public financing, can continue to implement their projects in practice.
mr president, such a report is necessary, especially in these difficult times, and we share its wider objectives. member states should cooperate more closely and coordinate their efforts to address common threats identified in the european security strategy, taking up their share of responsibility for peace and security not only in europe but also in neighbouring countries and the wider world. the economic and financial crisis can be both a challenge and an opportunity for the completion of the european union's defence policies, as it can push member states to implement necessary and significant reforms in the field of defence and security. it is perfectly understandable and we reinforce and support the policy of pooling and sharing for today's data. however, due to the military occupation of cyprus and the continued presence of turkish troops on the island, the republic of cyprus cannot implement the recommendations of the report to the extent it wants, especially in the area of pooling and sharing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in cyprus is not further worsened.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. i am from cyprus, but i believe that the same pressure that is being exerted by my colleagues to involve turkey in the settlement of the syrian problem should also be exerted on turkey to liberate cyprus, to allow 200,000 to 300,000 people to return to their homes and to withdraw the 40,000 troops it has in cyprus. this will show that we are for freedom everywhere and not for freedom for just one part of the planet. we believe that the arab spring does not seem to be followed by any summer. it is likely to be followed by a severe, cold winter, and this is shown by the tens of thousands of dead in libya recently, now in syria. the arab spring cannot be considered a blood-soaked spring. we therefore call on the syrian government to open a national dialogue with the political forces of the opposition with the aim of finding a political and peaceful way out of this dangerous situation immediately, before it is too late for the country and its people. the european union is a major player in the world of democracy and human rights, and if we are to play a decisive role in promoting democracy and human rights, we must concentrate our efforts on starting ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i'm the editor. - the mr president, this is a very important subject, especially at a time when there are various initiatives in the field of judicial cooperation in the european union, when the concept of mutual trust is used at every opportunity for european union action. the european commission's green paper, recently published, is quite indicative of the fact that words are far from reality. it presents numerous problems which we cannot ignore; the worrying variation in detention conditions in the member states, in particular as regards the number of detainees, levels of occupancy, abuse of the precautionary measure, the practical implementation of the european arrest warrant. i would like to make a special mention of the measure of detention. a measure in principle exceptional and applicable as a last resort, yet in practice its use is fully automated, and the alternative measures available are not sufficiently considered. furthermore, special attention should be paid to vulnerable groups such as children and adolescents. in relation to the european arrest warrant, its proper application cannot be at the expense of fundamental rights and freedoms. guarantees must be given as to the existence of the necessary means of defence for suspects and the conditions of detention. so even if it is easy to turn a blind eye to these issues, we must raise them and discuss them, so as to find solutions and demand concrete measures to improve the poor conditions of detention with respect for the human rights of prisoners and in accordance with the high standards so often spoken of. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the resolution which will be put to the vote tomorrow is moving in that direction. we therefore call on the commission and the council to consider this and to act on what has been said and on the message of the european parliament. to examine the impact of criminal measures and provisions on detention conditions and to make recommendations on these issues.
in writing. the syrian authorities must immediately stop the use of force to break the vicious cycle of bloodshed that only serves other interests. it is also imperative to promote the just demands of the syrian people, who demand reforms to improve their quality of life. however, we must not forget that the syrian people are the only ones who have the right to solve internal political problems and determine the future of their country without foreign suggestions and interference. we abstained on the resolution on syria because we cannot agree to a policy which prepares the ground for military intervention in a sovereign state with the same tragic results as we have seen in yugoslavia, iraq, afghanistan and libya. we cannot accept the cover-up of the interventionist policy being developed inside syria by the united states and neighbouring countries, with turkey as the leader. the international community is not helping by imposing sanctions that inevitably hurt the syrian people as well. the most important thing is to start an intra-syrian dialogue aimed at finding a political and peaceful way out of the current dangerous situation that threatens the country and its people. the eu must support the launch of the intra-syrian dialogue.
in writing. the syrian authorities must immediately stop the use of force to break the vicious cycle of bloodshed that only serves other interests. it is also imperative to promote the just demands of the syrian people, who demand reforms to improve their quality of life. however, we must not forget that the syrian people are the only ones who have the right to solve internal political problems and determine the future of their country without foreign suggestions and interference. we abstained on the resolution on syria because we cannot agree to a policy which prepares the ground for military intervention in a sovereign state with the same tragic results as we have seen in yugoslavia, iraq, afghanistan and libya. we cannot accept the cover-up of the interventionist policy being developed inside syria by the united states and neighbouring countries, with turkey as the leader. the international community is not helping by imposing sanctions that inevitably hurt the syrian people as well. the most important thing is to start an intra-syrian dialogue aimed at finding a political and peaceful way out of the current dangerous situation that threatens the country and its people. the eu must support the launch of the intra-syrian dialogue.
