i am very pleased with the text of the building code negotiated by the rapporteurs with the helpful commissioners tajani and barnier for today's second reading. this should simplify the market for construction products. it will unite enthusiasm, simplify documentation and eliminate various unnecessary bureaucratic practices. i particularly welcome the fact that the view has finally prevailed that building construction is the provision of building services rather than the marketing of products and that building activities also include non-series-produced components incorporated into buildings, if any. companies in the czech republic will also really appreciate this small reform, because the old directive increased their costs without affecting the quality. my imco committee came together and unanimously adopted the text, including the simplification for micro-enterprises. and i believe that tomorrow the whole parliament will do so. this will be further evidence of the improvement of the legal environment in the european union in a direction which supports the single market.
it has been 19 months since canada suddenly and unilaterally introduced a visa requirement for citizens of the czech republic, which as a member of the union is not allowed to introduce a reciprocal visa for all canadians. president barroso was quick to say that this was an eu problem, not a bilateral one, but unfortunately commissioner malmström is not addressing this as a priority, but is passively monitoring the bilateral working discussions. the council replied to my question that it was not discussing the union's reciprocity, since it had not yet received any proposals from the commissioner. czech citizens are thus de facto second-class european citizens in terms of their rights, and they are surprised that canadians continue to travel to the czech republic without visas. i would point out that the commission's fickleness also increases the risk that the czech parliament will postpone ratification of the treaties between the union and canada. it has no choice but to defend the rights of its citizens when the eu fails to put pressure on canada. that is why i join you in asking the commissioner to deal with canada immediately and also to stand up for the romanians and the bulgarians. or are the common visa policy and the principle of solidarity no longer european values? is the commissioner aware of what's at stake today?
the sustained increase in the number and scale of humanitarian disasters in third countries, which is also a consequence of climate change, requires quantitative as well as qualitative improvements in humanitarian aid. i therefore fully support the measures mentioned in the report, including the transformation of member states' civil protection to also serve as actionable coordinated assistance of the european union. however, i also consider it urgent to improve the safety of humanitarian workers. i think the commission should also allocate capacity to raise awareness, especially in haiti, so that affected people understand the causes and consequences of their disaster and help protect the safety of humanitarian workers, and not the other way around. otherwise, it is necessary and not undesirable to use the protection of military forces.
it is entirely appropriate to underline the importance of food security for the eu population, which is a fundamental human right. the european union must therefore strive to ensure that healthy and nutritious food is economically and physically available to all eu citizens, enabling them to lead active and healthy lives. strict attention should be paid to the highest standards of food and agricultural production, food safety and quality, and environmental sustainability. however, in this context, attention should also be drawn to the strict requirement of the same quality and safety standards for food imported from third countries in order to protect the competitiveness of european farmers. i would also like to support measures to motivate farmers to become more energy efficient, as energy costs are a key factor in the rate of profitability of agricultural activity. as the most important of all the reports, i see the strong call on the commission to ensure, in the public interest, that the public has access to information on the results of food security controls in cooperation with the member states, in particular by rapidly sharing this information between member states. we must not repeat the same failure as the sale of meat containing traces of dioxin, as is the case in germany now, when other member states were insufficiently and too late informed of the situation.
in writing. we consider food security to be a basic human right. already, 900 million people in the world suffer from chronic hunger because of poverty. by 2050, the world's population is expected to exceed 9 billion people, and global food production will need to increase by as much as 70 percent. agriculture is faced with increasing production on the one hand, and high energy prices, dwindling uncontaminated land and the effects of climate change on the other. we have to deal with the instability and price fluctuations caused by speculation in commodity markets and the depletion of food supplies. the future security of basic food supplies requires a strong common agricultural policy. the cap should improve food security by increasing productivity and supporting environmentally sustainable food production as well as traditional farming, smallholder farming, organic farming and local and regional food distribution. these farming models contribute to food security by using proven methods and practices from across the eu. agriculture is the eu's most strategic policy, and its success will help ensure the survival of europe's population in times of food crisis. in order to enable the common agricultural policy to combat the effects of climate change, to keep food prices at an acceptable level and to increase the supply of safe staple foods, it is essential that its budget be kept at a minimum current level.
in writing. if agriculture is understood as a strategic sector, then the eu's self-sufficiency at least at the level of basic food and feed production is a necessary condition for ensuring food security. the eu's dependence on agricultural imports causes food prices to rise and harms direct producers in the supply chain. according to the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations (fao), the demand for food and feed could increase by 70% by 2050. all available forms of agriculture will therefore have to be used and financial investment in science and research in this area will have to be substantially encouraged. the effective use of traditional agricultural varieties characteristic of certain regions also requires greater support and public interest. for example, the environmental impact assessment of food production and transport distances is easy for consumers to understand. the current waste of up to 50% along the production chain or the disproportionate growth of freight transport are not factors compatible with ensuring food security. it is impossible to pretend to be concerned about food security or environmental protection while tolerating dependence on imports of products grown on another continent and imported thousands of kilometres away. such practices create a huge ecological footprint and at the same time force developing countries to import almost all the food they need, making them dependent, destroying their economies, impoverishing their populations, and destroying their environments.
for the group gue/ngl the greatest figure in serbian history, saint sava, said that serbs are both people of the east and people of the west. and the problem is that people in the west don't trust them because they think they're people from the east, and people from the east because they think they're people from the west. in fact, serbia is the bridge between east and west europe, it is a key country for the unity of europe and after all, the novel of the great serbian writer dobrica ćosiće "time of death" (time of death) shows that where serbia is actually concerned, the key game is the unity or fragmentation of europe. i think that times should change in that sense, to realize the vital importance of serbia for the unity of europe. it's a key economy in the balkans, and without the balkans, europe simply won't be united. i would like to emphasise that we have common tasks that can be solved fairly quickly, such as the refugee problems in serbia - serbia has about 750 000 refugees on its territory - environmental problems, some of which are inherited from the 1990s, such as the opening of the danube shipping route, for example, we have an intergroup in the european parliament dedicated to the danube, and we could also focus on helping serbia with a bold judicial reform and the fight against organised crime.
i welcome and support all steps towards serbia's rapid integration into the eu, as this is what the majority of serbs want. however, i would also point out that a large part of the shortcomings that are blamed on serbia in the ep's draft resolution can be attributed to the previous long-term destructive involvement of some eu member states in the balkans and the direct aggression of nato against serbia. serbia should have an easier path to the eu, as membership is not a reward for the country but a chance for the eu to contribute to solving many of the problems that it has directly or indirectly caused. i would also like to stress the need for a very cautious and balanced approach to the situation of national minorities in serbia. the ep resolution acknowledges the 'further aspirations of the albanian minority' in serbia and calls for respect for its 'right to provincial autonomy'. if minority problems are solved by creating collective legislation granting them special rights, this solution will ultimately be disastrous for the state concerned, and not only for serbia. the only way to ensure the rights of minorities is to vigorously promote and protect individual human rights.
in writing. in terms of gdp generation, construction represents 10% of the economic output of the european union. the construction market still presents a number of obstacles which prevent the full development of the single market. the aim of the proposed regulation is to amend the existing directive in order to simplify the conditions for placing construction products on the market. it is mainly a market surveillance area and a common framework for the marketing of construction products. the aim of the amendment of the directive is to help the construction industry to remove trade barriers in times of economic downturn, thereby preserving jobs and maintaining a number of construction companies that would otherwise not be able to withstand the economic downturn. in its first reading position, the council omitted parliament's amendments aimed at making it compulsory to indicate dangerous substances contained in construction products (e.g. asbestos). i consider this to be very dangerous and therefore also support the report presented, as it re-introduces the obligation for construction companies to indicate the hazardous substances contained in construction products. the health of the citizens must be protected. last but not least, i appreciate the efforts made by member states to ensure the independence of the representatives on the standing committee on construction, which assesses and verifies the durability of construction products. the report also includes amendments to improve safety and health protection not only for construction workers but also for the users of the buildings themselves. it is not only for the above reasons that i have decided to support the report.
in writing. the draft recommendation on the establishment of harmonised conditions for the placing of construction products on the market calls for the highest possible level of protection for workers and persons using construction sites. i agree with the rapporteur that it is essential to be able to trace possible dangerous substances in construction products and i support the amendments on the need to indicate dangerous substances on construction products. i do not understand the council's position that this was omitted entirely from the original proposal. in order to improve the information on new and existing construction products, so-called contact points should be established, which must be impartial, i.e. personally and financially independent of the bodies involved in the ce marking process. the council has proposed too many exceptions to the requirement to bear the ce marking; these exceptions must be revised and reduced as much as possible, otherwise the whole system of ce marking would lose its relevance. i support the proposed regulation as amended and will vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - i support this new approach, where the aim of the legislation is not to define the safety of products, but to create a transparent environment in which reliable information on the properties of products is provided. i also appreciate the fact that the european parliament has decided to give preference to the electronic form of documents, namely the declaration of performance attached to products placed on the market. however, i have some doubts about the legislative systematicity of amendment no 45 concerning article 17. while i support the proposed principle of fair and balanced representation of different types of stakeholders in the process of creating harmonised standards, i believe that these issues should be addressed in a comprehensive way in the revision of the european standardisation system, rather than in an unsystematic way in individual legal acts. this course of action, in my view, will lead to a lack of clarity in the legal order.
in writing. the report presented is a very timely response to the many natural disasters we have experienced in recent years. experience of being able to provide effective assistance after previous disasters, e.g. in australia, haiti, russia, shows that it is essential for the ec to have fully clear procedures and means for providing effective humanitarian assistance. so far, these disasters have been avoided as far as the european continent is concerned, but this does not mean that an effective set of structures and means should not be in place. experience gained in recent years has shown that it is not possible to provide transport to the affected areas without the technical and organisational support of the military. ngos don't have those options. it is evident that very often the inhabitants of the affected areas are cut off from the possibility of transport by land and the capacity of civil aviation is limited. if the use of military force is justified and acceptable in any case, it is precisely in the case of humanitarian or natural disasters.
i would like to begin by thanking both rapporteurs, mrs grossetête and mr bowis. it is exactly 2 years, 6 months and 16 days since the european commission presented its long-awaited proposal for a directive on patients' rights in cross-border care, but its history goes back much further than the original proposal for a directive on services. today, it is confirmed that it was a big mistake to exclude healthcare services from the services directive. it must be remembered that the directive in question deals only with patients' rights and that the question of the free movement of health services in the european union remains unresolved. while health systems in the member states are based on the same general values, the actual organisation of healthcare provision differs widely from one member state to another. the text we are voting on tomorrow, which i support, is a great compromise between the rights of citizens, patients and the concerns of the governments of the member states. despite many concessions and opposition, the proposal is a small but important step forward. the proposed directive clarifies, albeit not entirely, patients' rights, ensures their access to information, fully confirms the member states' governments' sole responsibility for the organisation and financing of healthcare, for the quality, safety and availability of care in their territory, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, and gives them the possibility to lay down rules under which citizens may have to seek consent before receiving care abroad. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will continue to work on the directive in this parliament for years to come and improve patients' rights in the european union.
those of you who have been in the european parliament for a long time will remember how this standard came into being. it's a funny story. at the beginning was mrs gebhardt's report, which was to allow the free movement of services across the european union. we've taken a section of it and decided that health care deserves a special standard. when it was finally presented by the commission, the free movement of health services gradually fell out of it, leaving us with the part that describes the right of patients to move freely within the european union in order to seek and receive health care. i want to emphasise that sometimes our europeanism is more about symbols and flags and very little about the fulfilment of the actual freedoms on which the union should be based. the standard was accompanied by numerous concerns of individual member states about the over-drafting and liquidation of national budgets. in closing, let me say that this is not exactly what we wanted, but it is the right step and certainly a step in the right direction. i want to say hello to the news crew and thank them for their work.
i am very relieved that parliament has finally reached a political agreement on the right of patients to cross-border healthcare services under conditions that have been upheld for years only by the european court of justice on appeal. i am pleased that today's compromise formulates the terms of the payment as some of us had already advocated in the services directive seven years ago. i would like to thank mrs grossetête and mr bowis, whom i congratulate, from the bottom of my heart for having achieved this acceptable agreement and for having drawn up the important safeguards for the enforceability of this right. i believe that the right to mobility will make rare disease treatment accessible to all europeans and ultimately lead to shorter waiting times for operations across the union. it also fulfilled one of my lifelong personal goals in the field of health. let me remind you that there is still a lot of work to be done, such as completing online health services, healthcare workers' mobility and other objectives.
the compromise draft directive, after two years of negotiations, aims in particular to ensure legal certainty for patients in the context of the provision of cross-border healthcare. that's certainly a positive result. however, the complexity of the negotiations has highlighted not only the differences in health systems across member states, but also the different economic conditions under which healthcare is provided to european citizens. the fact that this is a very sensitive problem is also evidenced by the recent massive statements of dissatisfied doctors in czech hospitals. in this context, certain risks or uncertainties arise with regard to the impact of the directive, for example in terms of medical tourism for quality but cheaper healthcare. only time will tell whether this is a marginal problem and whether the positive effects of the directive will prevail.
i'm also going to talk about alzheimer's disease. we know that this is a report which has no legislative impact of its own and is not too controversial. i hope he doesn't split this plenum. but we know that this is a very serious disability with very serious economic implications and therefore a very serious social problem. it is closely linked to the ageing of the european population, and its increase is beginning to resemble a neurological epidemic in europe. what can we do about this? we can emphasise prevention that saves money and improves health, we can improve the dietary habits of the european population, we can consolidate our scientific base in europe and coordinate the work of individual member states, we can support civil society and family associations and we can help to create specialised centres in europe.
in writing. dementia and alzheimer's disease in particular are not only a major medical problem but also an extremely sensitive ethical and social problem, the importance of which will continue to increase in the context of the ageing of the european population. the document very rightly focuses on the various aspects of this disease, in particular the promotion of early diagnosis, research and improvement of patient care itself. however, i consider the support for families of people with dementia to be equally important, and the emphasis on non-discriminatory access to quality health and social services to be essential. in this context, i see a crucial role for local and regional authorities and non-profit organisations, which can respond quickly to the growing need for these services. the european alzheimer's and other dementias initiative is also very important for starting a serious and open public discussion about this disease in the broadest sense. that is why i welcome and support this initiative.
since i myself was unable to attend the certainly interesting debate on this subject on monday because of my children, i would like at least now to express my full support, which i have expressed by voting, for this resolution. i strongly hope that the follow-up to this resolution will lead to a reduction in the bureaucracy involved in international adoption of children, but also to better monitoring of their subsequent fate and to help in the fight against child trafficking.
in writing. - i voted for the grossetête report because, after many years, it removes the uncertainty about reimbursement and the resulting access to crossborder healthcare. while the benefits of cross-border healthcare have so far been mainly enjoyed by better informed or more mobile patients, the possibility is now open to everyone. i agree to make the reimbursement of costs conditional on prior authorisation in justified and clearly defined cases where cross-border healthcare involves a patient's stay in hospital for at least one night, requires highly specialised and expensive medical equipment or poses a particular risk to the patient or the public. in these cases, i consider prior authorisation to be one of the tools to prevent excessive medical tourism. the growing health tourism is not a good sign for many european health systems. however, if a patient is exposed to unreasonably long waiting times in his home country, it is not surprising that he would want to travel to a place where he could receive care more quickly and, moreover, perhaps in a higher quality. however, in countries where foreigners will travel more for medical procedures and operations, there is a danger that domestic patients will take their turn after foreign demand is satisfied.
- there is a general lack of information and a priori a negative attitude towards access to healthcare in crossborder settings. within the eu freedoms, it should in principle be possible for every citizen to benefit from healthcare services in another member state if he or she receives better or faster treatment there, or if he or she pays for it himself or herself. the provision of healthcare in another member state is therefore a priority issue. this debate has been going on for years, but we have made no significant progress. in another member state, you will only receive treatment in an emergency situation. it is therefore not possible to plan healthcare or medical treatment in another member state. the health insurance of the country in question is always required, but only eu citizens with permanent residence in that country can obtain it. this is nonsense, because no citizen can have health insurance in two or more eu countries, since he has only one main permanent address, in the country where he lives. we are legally preventing eu citizens from investing more in their health and treatment if they want to. the recommendation is at least a modest step forward, and i will therefore vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - the document translated follows on from the debate held by the ep in the previous parliamentary term. the commission's proposal itself contained certain shortcomings and risks that could have a negative impact on the consumers of care, i.e. citizens. i welcome the compromise reached in amendment no 107, in particular because it increases the guarantees for patients in the provision of cross-border care and highlights the positive trend towards increasing patient awareness. finally, i welcome the fact that the amendment emphasises the responsibility of the member states to provide safe, high-quality, effective and accessible care on their territory. i also consider it important to define the conditions under which a member state may refuse to grant prior authorisation. the amendment also contains positive steps in interoperability and promotes cooperation in both prevention and diagnostics.
colleagues, we now come to the catch-the-eye procedure. i have a small problem because i have more than 25 requests and we have only five minutes for that, so obviously not everybody will get the floor. i will do my best and i will try to divide the time evenly and justly, but unfortunately not everybody will get the floor.
i give the floor to catherine ashton to sum up the debate and answer many of those questions.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. this debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 20 january 2011 at 12.00 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
- the next item is the debate on the question for an oral answer on the security situation in the sahel, tabled by arnaud danjean, ioannis kasoulides, elmar brok, josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra, michael gahler, krzysztof lisek, andrey kovatchev on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) by the vice-president of the commission, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy (o-0180/2010 b7-0808/2010).
a month ago, the cuban totalitarian regime refused to let sakharov prize winner guillermo fariñas go to strasbourg. a few days later, we sadly witnessed a series of repressions that followed the presidential elections in belarus. i hope that there is no doubt that the lukashenko regime is not an authoritarian regime, but it is a totalitarian regime, just like the castro regime in cuba. today we are debating whether to block the top officials of the lukashenka regime from entering the european union. i am in favour of opening up more to ordinary belarusians, who have never known what freedom and democracy look like. any policy of isolation will only serve to further lukashenko's agenda. the citizens of belarus should be welcomed in the union. but conversely, representatives of lukashenko's totalitarian regime should be ignored, we should be very tough on them. people who don't respect democratic values simply don't belong in a decent society.
three key questions arise in relation to the arctic. first of all, it's an energy issue, we've talked about oil, gas, but in the future, it's going to be methane, because the reserves that are in the permafrost, in terms of energy-efficient methane, are about 300 years. and so far, this question has not been explored in any way by the european union institutions. the second thing is to the right. opening the northern route will shorten the route to the far east. it takes 21 days to get from hamburg to seoul. taking this option into account would significantly reduce costs and also contribute to the intensity of contacts between the two areas. the third thing is, of course, the environment, because the use of energy resources and the increased transportation will bring a number of environmental risks to the area. i think it would be good to work out a plan... (the chairman interrupts the speaker)
the low rate of project implementation, the absence of action plans and evaluation reports, the absence of high-level meetings, the risk of duplication with the eastern partnership and many other problems suggest that the decision to give the lead to the member states in implementing the black sea strategy was inappropriate. it appears that the european commission should play a more prominent role as the secretariat and facilitator of this black sea strategy. i also believe that this strategy, like other macro-regional strategies, should remain budgetary, institutional and legislative neutral, i.e. no additional resources should be spent, no new institutions should be set up and no new legislation should be prepared. there is no need for new operational programmes and specific budget lines, but there is a need to focus on the implementation of specific projects in which the states concerned will have a genuine interest.
in writing. the european union strategy for the black sea region is reminiscent of yetti. everyone's talking about her, but no one's seen her. this conviction is reinforced by several contradictions which i see at the very beginning of the resolution. first, it is the demarcation of the black sea area. it is somewhat curious that azerbaijan, as a country on the caspian sea, is included, but macedonia is not, although its two closest neighbours, bulgaria and greece, are included in the black sea region by the ec's definition. i never knew greece stretched to the black sea. the 13 areas of cooperation, which envisage greater eu involvement in the region, are indeed a very broad agenda. the commission has not yet seemed to appreciate the importance of this area. finally, if in the spring of this year eur 1.5 million from the pilot programme for environment and regional development was diverted to a banana project in the acp countries, i have to ask on what basis the commission reached this decision. it's curious that the author "ignored" south stream, but he mentions the controversial and unfilled nabucco project. i would like to stress that the possibility of engaging in partnerships with the various regions of the european union will also be very important for the further development of the region beyond the area mentioned. the conclusions of the last visa waiver negotiations with ukraine are missing.
in writing. - we should not simply close the door and make it difficult to have a better dialogue. the imposition of severe sanctions could create a barrier and further isolate the country. in their final outcome, they would most likely have an impact beyond the intended target. eu-belarus communication should be intensively pursued, using all diplomatic means, and regularly reviewed. as regards effectiveness, it may be necessary to set up a different type of dialogue, conducted in a different form and at different levels, including a balanced rather than a unilateral assessment. however, the basis should be a careful evaluation of the experience of eu-belarus exchanges to date and, on that basis, their up-to-date incorporation into a strategic plan that would clearly reflect the eu's foreign policy towards belarus. in the long term, there could be an improvement in relations and the launching of new cooperation projects that would contribute to the further development of the country and preserve its sovereignty. the eastern partnership programme can play a significant role in this.
in writing. - i voted for the ungureanu report because i believe that the eu urgently needs a coherent and visible strategy for the black sea region. this should be closely linked to the european neighbourhood policy, to which the czech eu presidency made a significant contribution in the first half of 2009. the security of energy supply to the eu and the related support for energy projects of eu interest aiming at diversifying gas supplies to the eu should be a key priority of the eu black sea strategy. the establishment of a euronest parliamentary assembly is also important and urgent for the security of energy supply to the eu. the projects to be supported by the black sea strategy include the nabucco project, the south stream project, the project to transport liquefied natural gas (lng) to europe and the development of lng terminals in black sea ports, and the konstanca-terst pan-european pipeline project. the commission should not hesitate to conclude agreements with potential nabucco supplier countries by the end of 2011. the energy infrastructure package, which the commission intends to present in the near future, should place a strong emphasis on the aforementioned energy projects in the black sea region. lastly, the considerable potential of renewable energy sources in the black sea region, which can make a significant contribution to securing the energy future of the eu and the world, should be highlighted.
the next item is the debate on the seven motions for resolutions on pakistan.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on brazil: extradition of cesare battisti see minutes..
i fully agree that this is a completely different debate but we have an allocated time of two minutes, so i am free to give time to two people. if you were in my shoes, how would you do it? i want to give a fair go to everybody who did not speak in the previous item, a fair go to the representatives of each political group. it is very much the situation that mainly our italian colleagues spoke, so i will take care of that and give the floor mainly to non-italian members.
i shall accept no more blue-card questions. we have had the arguments and we have had the counter-arguments. (we now move to the next speaker.)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on iran, in particular the case of nasrin sotoudeh see minutes..
colleagues, you heard the request made by mrs schaake. other colleagues have also asked if you could be quiet. if you have something private to discuss you can do so outside.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
it is correct. you have to be present 50% of the time.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 17.00)
energy security is an area where the european union should be involved and where it should proceed in the most uniform and coordinated way possible, unlike many other european initiatives, and that is why we, as the group of european conservatives and reformists, support the creation of a common energy market, as this strengthens the position of the member states vis-à-vis the main suppliers and also prevents the abuse of the dominant position of some suppliers of strategic raw materials for foreign political games. but we also say that even in energy integration, national specificities, i.e. national energy mix, including the use of nuclear energy, must be respected. on the economy, let me say this: my group is made up mainly of parties from those countries which are not members of the euro area, which do not use the euro. but that doesn't mean that we want a weak and fragile and unstable eurozone or that we want the euro to collapse. on the other hand, i am clear that the recovery of the european union's economy and financial stability must not lead to further transnational trends, must not lead to fiscal federalisation, must not become a pretext for further devolution of powers from the national to the european level. we simply refuse! a few notes on what's happening in north africa, tunisia and egypt. this is very similar to what happened in 1989 in central and eastern europe. the democratization trends in these states are certainly welcome and should be supported. we want the european union's immediate neighbourhood to be stable and democratic. but at the same time, let us be careful that these legitimate aspirations and appeals of the people of these countries do not slip into the other direction and lead to undemocratic, authoritarian, religious dictatorships. the european union should act to prevent this development.
i expect the energy summit to be a comprehensive, but also sensible and responsible approach to the interests of citizens. according to the latest eurostat surveys, energy price stability is one of the main priorities for a large proportion of the union population. it is no coincidence that the czech republic is the leading country in this statistic. in our country, irresponsible political and economic lobbying has pushed for inadequate financial support for photovoltaic power plants. the rampant entry of entrepreneurs, including foreigners, and their quest for fabulous profits is turning the public against renewable energy as such, as people face unnecessarily high electricity price increases. granted, it is not easy to provide sufficient energy at affordable prices, but we can at least get close to that goal. the way forward, i believe, is to seek a balanced energy mix from renewables to nuclear energy, while breaking down the extremes on both sides. only then will we have the confidence of the citizens of the union, who are the reason we are here.
mr president, i do not share the opinion that an ongoing uprising in egypt is dominantly driven by forces longing for democracy of a european style. i see the current riots and chaos as a revolution for change that is motivated by striving for a better life. but the crucial question for us europeans is the threat that the dramatic situation could be abused by radical islamists. if there were such a dramatic political change, europe, as well as america, would lose a moderate arabic ally and the egypt peace treaty would be endangered. egypt can quickly and easily turn into a regime that is hostile to europe, israel and america and become close to hamas. the position of the eu should stay firmly on the side of those who are striving for freedom and who relentlessly support free elections.
in writing. in 1995, the european union set itself the ambitious goal of creating an area of peace, stability and prosperity in the mediterranean. the mediterranean countries received funds on condition that they undertook the necessary economic and political reforms. but none of that happened. in most cases, the european union's efforts to help its neighbours to the south have been driven by fear of islamic radicalism coming to power and threatening the security stability of the region. history shows that supporting authoritarian regimes does not pay off. it has not paid off for the united states in south and central america, and it is not paying off for the european union. some critics rightly speak of our hypocrisy. we talk about human rights, the need for social dialogue, economic development, and we have for decades turned a blind eye to the fact that in tunisia and other countries in north africa, cruel and undemocratic regimes rule. it remains to be seen that this is a major failure of those who have promoted such a policy. the embarrassing call by eu officials for mubarak to organize democratic elections is just the sad outcome of this failed policy.
the recommendation for the second reading establishing the development cooperation instrument notes a high degree of agreement on the measures and accepts in principle all the amendments from the first reading. i personally consider it a priority to address the systemic issues of multiannual development aid financing and agree with the rapporteur that the method of financing needs to be finalised in 2012 and 2013. the recommendation notes that the regulation radically reduces the reserves under the ceiling of heading 4 of the mff for the period 2007-13 and leaves insufficient room for manoeuvre to address and respond to possible future crises. the recommendation also addresses the legislative issues of the council's procedural procedure, which parliament criticises as it should have the same degree of control as the council in the area of strategic decisions on where and how development aid is spent. i therefore support the inclusion in the development cooperation instrument regulation, in accordance with the substance and the spirit of the treaty of lisbon, of a procedure for delegated acts which also covers the programming of the other external financial instruments currently under review (the instrument for stability, the instrument for human rights and democracy and the instrument for cooperation with industrialized countries).
in writing. one of the main objectives of the union's development policy is the reduction and permanent eradication of poverty, to which the proposed banana accompanying measures (bam) of eur 190 million for the period 2010-2013 approved by the commission on 17 march 2010 would seem to contribute. it is also true that in the past the relevant schemes in this area were drawn up from a commercial rather than a developmental perspective, and it is this perspective that should be reflected in the new proposal. the idea of supporting bam to improve the living standards of the population living in acp banana-supplying countries affected by the development of customs duties on banana imports into the eu also seems to be a good one. however, the commission proposal shows certain shortcomings, such as the absence of an impact analysis of the proposed measures, the question of the timing of the drawdown, the questionable large-scale use of union reserves and the persistent problem of under-financing of heading 4, which the commission rightly pointed out in its evaluation report on the functioning of the interinstitutional agreement. overall, i consider that the report presented by mr charles goerence presents a precise analysis of the issue from both a trade and development perspective, reflects the comments approved by the committee on budgets on 13 september 2010, and also contains relevant recommendations on bam, and therefore i recommend that it be approved as proposed.
there is no doubt that this directive is moving in the right direction, as it seeks to change the quantitative collection objectives, to set rules for the cross-border transport of electrical and electronic equipment and to harmonise administrative steps towards obliged entities in order to reduce red tape. it is precisely because of the excessive bureaucracy that i reject the definition of a producer at european union level, also in view of the possible enforceability of the obligations laid down by the member states. in this case, we should follow the motto that if something works, there's no reason to change it in any way. as regards the scope of the directive, i personally prefer a closed scope, as i am concerned that opening the scope would include practically non-recyclable equipment or would include equipment with a long service life and thus jeopardise the achievement of the agreed collection targets. in this case, i believe that when we set ourselves goals, we should not only be ambitious, but above all realistic and not burden more towns and cities.
in writing. the collection of electrical and electronic waste is a very topical issue nowadays. it is therefore more than necessary that the relevant area be covered by the updated directive. i believe that some of the amendments which will be voted on in the first reading very unfortunately combine the commission's proposals which facilitate the collection, sorting and subsequent recycling of waste with others. these, in turn, bring the whole issue into if not chaos, then at least less light. unfortunately, at the stage of the final vote, there is not much we can do about it. it is interesting to note that the majority of the political groups agree on a number of fairly good amendments. if this agreement is supported in the final vote, the resulting form of the directive could support a significant increase in the collection of weee and its better recyclability. one of the key points is article 14 (1), which if amendment 91 or the somewhat less clear wording of amendment 103 is adopted, can promote the recycling and take-back of electrical and electronic equipment. it is important that the outcome of all this work is a directive that clearly defines the obligations of the specific actors and at the same time allows for the most efficient recycling process. in this respect, the odd classification of lighting equipment into several categories or too many exceptions for whole categories of large installations is undesirable.
in writing. waste electrical and electronic equipment is the fastest growing source of waste. they present a realistically higher risk to the environment and public health than spent nuclear fuel. a revision of the directive was necessary. a large amount of e-waste is either not treated in accordance with its wording and ends up in landfills, or is illegally exported outside the eu. it is alarming that we have no idea what happens to more than half of europe's electrical and electronic waste. this situation is unsustainable because if collection and recycling targets are not set and respected, the current production of 4 kg of waste per person per year could rise to 24 kg by 2020. recycling e-waste can put more gold back into the production process than is mined in the eu, and the same is true for other rare earths. i therefore strongly welcome the creation of new stable jobs and, above all, the reduction of the eu's dependence on imports of rare earths. i have a very negative view of the solar panel exemption. in the context of the rohs exemption for cadmium telluride panels, this represents a further increase in the risk of highly toxic cadmium pollution, which is being combated in other eu legislative measures. behind this inconsistency, which is not worthy of the eu or the european parliament and consequently does not bring any good to european industry either, are lobbying interests.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the banana trade agreement, which definitively ends the 16 year trade dispute over banana imports between the eu and the us. the seriousness of the problem is documented by the judgments of the european court of justice, which has ruled against the discriminatory regime for importing bananas into the eu. i appreciate that the import of bananas will finally be equalised and that the unjustified preferential treatment of former european colonies, which distorts the world banana trade, will end. but even after the leveling of trade conditions, europe continues to favour farmers in africa, the caribbean and the pacific who are still favoured. as a compensatory measure, it has provided them with eur 200 million in aid to help them prepare for a tougher competition. but i fear that sooner or later we will have to accept the fact that african bananas, because of their lower quality and higher production costs, will simply not survive competition from latin american bananas. i also hope that the successful conclusion of the negotiations on bananas will lead to a number of tariff reductions for other tropical fruits, which should bring down their prices and thus benefit all eu citizens.
in writing. in view of the proposals made, the gue/ngl's views on the submitted material concerning the adjustment of the rules for possible access of this agricultural commodity to eu markets, the international trade (import/export) rules concerned, i state my position, which is in line with the czech republic's position on the matter. the czech republic supports the change of import regimes with a reduction of the customs burden for imports from third countries for this agricultural commodity, welcomes the geneva agreement reached governing trade in this commodity. agricultural production itself and international trade in this commodity, especially access to the eu market, is a key sector for many of the countries concerned. this should always be taken into account when shaping the eu's common agricultural policy. in accordance with the negotiated conditions, a certain degree of stability could therefore be established in the sector, as is apparent from the texts. however, the basis should remain the impact assessment on the countries concerned, combined with an estimate of possible developments over a longer time horizon. despite the priority of adjusting international trade rules, the relationship between this important agricultural commodity and the final consumers cannot be overlooked. it is important to maintain the appropriate nutritional value of this food and its initial production stage using ecological elements. the corresponding quality should not be ultimately neglected but rather given priority over quantity.
in writing. - i voted for the report on waste electrical and electronic equipment, which deals with a very topical issue. on the one hand, improper handling of these facilities would inevitably have environmental and health consequences. on the other hand, we are faced with the problem of the loss of raw materials, which is one of the key issues in the globalised economy. according to available data, 85% of e-waste is currently recycled, but only 33% of this is officially registered and managed in accordance with the provisions of the eu directive. i cannot fully agree with the envi opinion that the costs of collection, treatment, recovery and environmentally sound disposal of waste from electronic equipment should be covered under the 'polluter pays' principle. on the contrary, i am of the opinion that producers, retailers and consumers should not pay for the collection and transport of waste from the door to the collection point, but that this responsibility should, as it is now, primarily lie with the municipalities. at the same time, i see no problem in allowing manufacturers to show the cost of collection and recycling of the product when selling a new product to the consumer. i think it is good that consumers are informed about these costs and are thus led to behave responsibly in an environmentally friendly way.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the fight against tuberculosis for a number of reasons. first of all, i would like to stress that the humanitarian aspect of this disease must be considered, because it is a disease that can be prevented by vaccination alone, and therefore the deaths of more than 2 million people a year are not only extremely high, but above all unnecessary. i fully agree that tb is a striking example of inequality between nations, since it has been almost eradicated in industrialized countries. the tvbi foundation serves people with tuberculosis around the world, especially in the least developed countries. personally, i see this approach to fighting tb as an expression of solidarity among european citizens and an effort to reduce the number of deaths that are completely unnecessary, and that are the result of a lack of funding for vaccination in less developed countries.
mr. chairman, i'm glad you mentioned the thousands of changes that have been made by individual states. it is more than a year since the services directive was due to be transposed into the legal systems of all the member states of the union. unfortunately, it's obvious that the thousand changes aren't enough. some states, in their efforts to apply protectionist measures in their domestic economies, have not considered the implementation of this directive as their priority. paradoxically, the consistent implementation of the services directive and the removal of barriers to cross-border provision of services could act as a catalyst for economic growth throughout the union, allowing a faster recovery from the economic crisis. in the context of the implementation of the directive, i am very concerned that the single points of contact, which were supposed to make life easier for entrepreneurs by providing them with information on doing business both in the member state concerned and in other member states, are currently only operating in fourteen member states. commissioner, knowing you, i trust that you will continue with your colleagues in your efforts to implement the single market act and that you will consistently require member states to transpose the services directive into law, including its actual implementation. the successful implementation of this directive is a prerequisite for the creation of the single internal market. you'll have the support of our imco committee.
mr president, the single market for services in europe is still not living up to its potential. the services directive, which was intended to remove barriers to the provision of services across europe, was to bring significant improvements. unfortunately, that's not the case yet. that is why i welcome the report by mrs gebhardt. i share the view that member states need to be effectively encouraged to speed up the transposition of the directive into their national law and to complete it in full. but i think it's equally important that small and medium-sized businesses and entrepreneurs know that there are places that can help them with their service businesses. i therefore consider the visibility of the single points of contact to be a key aspect. for this reason, i have focused my amendments on the need for an intensive information campaign to support this project. it should be addressed to all stakeholders, including public authorities. the european union may have the best intentions, it may have the best legislation and supporting measures, and it may even have all the countries implementing them as best they can, but if businesses and traders don't know about it, the result will always be embarrassing. the single market act also seeks to make europe fit not only for citizens and consumers but also for businesses and traders. so let's listen to them, but above all, let's give them enough information to be able to access it.
mr president, there is no doubt that the services directive was to be instrumental in opening the way to the development of services in the member states, and in particular to the cross-border use of a much wider range of possibilities for both businesses and consumers. the problem is that protectionism still persists in many member states. today, when we are debating the implementation of this directive after several years, i wish to express my regret that it took us five years to finally bring the original bolkenstein directive into force here in parliament, after it had been revised and supplemented in a number of respects. and now we have no clear evidence that it has done what it was supposed to do, because the member states still lack an understanding of the philosophy and meaning of the internal market. i am very sorry that five countries do not have functioning single points of contact, but more importantly, there is no good interoperability between the other points of contact in the member states. as my speakers have already said, the problem is that small businesses in particular are not yet sufficiently informed about what the contact points can offer them, and in some countries these contact points do not even exist. what i find useful is that the member states actually evaluate themselves amongst themselves. hopefully, it'll have some kind of a ripple effect in the future. i want to thank the rapporteur and also the shadow rapporteur handzlik for basically truthfully describing the situation as it is here. i would like to draw attention to article 36, where this report recalls that member states are obliged to carry out risk assessments and to ensure that undertakings do not encounter unnecessary obstacles when carrying out the necessary procedures by electronic means.
mr. chairman, in his annual state of the union address, president obama called for a stronger america in innovation. he called the innovation "the sputnik of our generation". i am pleased that with the innovation union programme, the european union is sending a clear signal of the importance of innovation in maintaining europe's economic position in global competition. i see the creation of a european union unitary patent as one of the key instruments for the success of the 'innovation union' project and for keeping ahead of the innovation tigers such as china and brazil. the unitary patent will help to increase the competitiveness of european businesses considerably. i am therefore very sorry that the emergence of such a key tool for the development of innovation in the european union is being held back by some countries by secondary issues such as the protection of language. i therefore support the proposal for enhanced cooperation even at the cost of the non-participation of some member states. please don't let us miss the "sputnik of our generation".
mr president, i have long supported the single european patent because it will make investments in innovation more attractive, enable businesses to better protect their know-how, accelerate the transfer of knowledge from development to practice and hopefully better protect us against the entry of counterfeiters into the internal market. and that's just the challenge. it is to the detriment of our competitiveness that after ten years the council has only reached enhanced cooperation. i welcome the fact that the czech republic has reconsidered its position and intends to join the negotiations. i also realise how sensitive the case for enhanced cooperation is when it comes to language arrangements, especially for some large countries. but i believe that all developers in the european union will benefit. it is important that patents should be as cheap as in the usa, and i believe that the council will make further simplifications. the new judicial system for european patents is important, and should clarify a number of issues surrounding software and biotechnology patents. i support the proposal for enhanced cooperation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at midday tomorrow (tuesday, 15 february 2011).
the next item is the commission statement on practical aspects regarding the revision of eu instruments to support sme finance in the next programming period.
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at midday on wednesday, 16 february 2011. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. eu support instruments for smes must be particularly flexible and as bureaucratic as possible. banks are less and less willing to finance riskier business ventures, including start-ups or innovative products. access to finance is one of the biggest obstacles facing smes today. it is therefore necessary to strengthen the different ways of supporting microfinance for enterprises and to ensure better coordination and interlinkage between the different programmes already in place. however, their availability is also hampered by the complexity, time, financial and disproportionate administrative burden of providing relatively low amounts of funding. i also consider it important to improve general awareness of existing eu support options and instruments for smes.
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the commission on implementation of the eu strategy for the danube region by silvia-adriana ţicău, constanze angela krehl, hannes swoboda, adrian severin, ivailo kalfin, karin kadenbach, olga sehnalová, rovana plumb, csaba sándor tabajdi, evgeni kirilov, katarína neveďalová, vasilica viorica dăncilă, daciana octavia sârbu, ioan mircea paşcu, george sabin cutaş, britta thomsen, corina creţu, claudiu ciprian tănăsescu, ioan enciu, cătălin sorin ivan, mario pirillo, kinga göncz, marc tarabella, françoise castex, victor boştinaru, inés ayala sender, bogusław liberadzki, jo leinen, michael cashman, brian simpson, saïd el khadraoui, thijs berman, eider gardiazábal rubial, ismail ertug, edit herczog, on behalf of the s&d group; michael theurer, vladko todorov panayotov, renate weber, sophia in 't veld, jan mulder, gesine meissner, jorgo chatzimarkakis, catherine bearder, viktor uspaskich, wolf klinz, nadja hirsch, cristian silviu buşoi, giommaria uggias, ramona nicole mănescu, adina-ioana vălean, hannu takkula, jürgen creutzmann, alexander alvaro, holger krahmer, on behalf of the alde group; reinhard bütikofer, michael cramer, eva lichtenberger, barbara lochbihler, heide rühle, elisabeth schroedter, isabelle durant, on behalf of the verts/ale group; peter van dalen, oldřich vlasák, on behalf of the ecr group (o-0029/2011 – b7-0013/2011)– the oral question to the commission on eu strategy for the danube region by tamás deutsch, lambert van nistelrooij, danuta maria hübner, marian-jean marinescu, iosif matula, andrey kovatchev, jános áder, zoltán bagó, kinga gál, béla glattfelder, andrás gyürk, ágnes hankiss, lívia járóka, ádám kósa, csaba őry, ildikó gáll-pelcz, györgy schöpflin, lászló surján, józsef szájer, edit bauer, alajos mészáros, csaba sógor, lászló tőkés, iuliu winkler, elisabeth jeggle, on behalf of the ppe group (o-0014/2011 – b7-0011/2011).
the author. - mr president, macro-regional strategies are first and foremost a political instrument which represents one of the possible forms of territorial cooperation. they should be a tool for the effective use of existing initiatives, programmes, financial instruments, a platform for cooperation and institutions. macro-regional strategies are also intended to provide a framework for the better functioning of the union and its internal market and a platform for business-to-business links. they should serve to streamline and better structure the approach to the challenges faced by larger european cross-border geographical entities. however, both the challenges and the tools must be clearly defined. from the point of view of our group, the group of european conservatives and reformists, it is crucial that the concept of macro-regional strategies at the level of the european union be addressed in a structured, systematic way in the context of other policies. it is therefore desirable to adopt a strategic approach to this issue, particularly as regards the number of strategies, concentration, nature of projects and governance. we support the concept of macro-regional strategies, including the danube strategy, provided that it continues to stand by the principles approved by the council (3 ne): budgetary and financial neutrality, legislative neutrality and institutional neutrality. the role and future of macro-regional strategies is linked to the debate on the future use of european funds, but we believe that the discussion on the future architecture of cohesion policy and the anticipation of potential financial allocations for individual countries in the next financial perspective is redundant in today's debate. macro-regional strategies should not affect the future architecture of cohesion policy, other than transnational cooperation, or the financial allocations to individual objectives.
mr president, the danube strategy is the second macro-regional strategy to promote cooperation in territories with common characteristics and shared challenges. we will certainly agree that the main objective should be to ensure sustainable development, jobs and prosperity in the danube. this should be done by making maximum use of existing instruments and policies. i therefore fully support the so-called principle of 'no', i.e. 'no unnecessary bureaucracy, no new institutions and no new or additional financial resources'. however, alongside these objectives, a specific question arises for the commission. how will they ensure that the strategy is properly implemented in practice under these conditions? in particular, the regional and local level, in cooperation with the non-profit sector, must play an important role in the context of the principle of subsidiarity. those levels should cooperate effectively and their activities should be monitored and evaluated by the commission. implementation should follow the commission's action plan. but is the commission also preparing a shorter and clearer version of this document, which would bring the main practical benefits of the strategy directly to citizens and local and regional public administrations? and the last question: what is the possible follow-up of the danube strategy to the new financial framework 2014-2020? is there an overlap?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 17 february 2011. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the commission statement on cord blood stem cells.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
that concludes the item.
the next item is the report by martin callanan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council setting emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles as part of the community’s integrated approach to reduce co2 emissions from light-duty vehicles (com(2009)0593 – c7-0271/2009 – 2009/0173(cod)) (a7-0287/2010).
the rapporteur of the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, it is true that transport is one of the sectors where it is desirable to reduce emissions. but our pursuit of emission reductions should not jeopardise the competitiveness of european car manufacturers. this requirement is particularly urgent in view of the ongoing financial crisis, which is still having a serious impact on the european automotive industry. in this respect, i consider the achieved value of 147 g co2/km for the average emissions of new light commercial vehicles to be quite ambitious and i am very curious about the feasibility study that the commission is to carry out on the basis of the updated results. at the same time, i am watching with great caution the efforts of the commission and some other actors, who find the proposed target to be rather unambitious, to reopen the debate on this subject and to try to amend this regulation to set stricter targets. i believe that economic actors need to be assured that legislation will not be constantly changing. now it's time to give car manufacturers the space to work and develop new engines to deal with regulation and new targets. at the same time, i believe that recital 24 should also be noted, which envisages extending speed limitation devices to light commercial vehicles. i'm glad we're going to be addressing this issue separately and that this debate will be more substantive and less ideological.
colleagues, we must stick to the prearranged time because we have a busy schedule and at 12:00 there is a vote.
mr president, thank you for moderating part of this debate in czech. but most of all, i'd like to thank the reporters and the editor in chief, martin callanan, for their hard work. this regulation we are discussing is a follow-up to the climate change policy as we know it from the european parliament, and there is no room for too much polemic with this policy and the whole concept. it must be remembered that these are mostly unilateral actions of the european parliament, which do not have a corresponding reflection outside the european union in the rest of the world. there is a need to consider what constitutes a sensitive incentive and what constitutes an undue burden on european businesses, and i believe that this report has succeeded in approaching sensitive incentives. in this case, i strongly disagree with what my keynote speaker, carl schlyter, said. we are not helping europe's competitiveness by tying a steel ball to the feet of european industry. so far, all the evidence is that industry in europe is indeed shrinking and moving across borders. the measures in the light commercial vehicle sector are much more complex than those in the passenger car sector and place a greater burden on small businesses, as already mentioned here. i would like to conclude by congratulating all the rapporteurs on their work and i consider the compromise reached to be excellent.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at midday today (15 february 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by antonio cancian, on behalf of parliament’s delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport and amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 (00063/2010 – c7-0015/2011 – 2008/0237(cod)) (a7-0020/2011).
for the group gue/ngl mr president, the rights of passengers in all modes of transport have become an increasingly important item of the european parliament's deliberations in recent years. i must admit that in many cases i see problems that can arise with the enforcement of passenger rights, and the coverage of which by insurance will certainly be a very interesting segment for many financial institutions. on the other hand, logically, the cost of transport will also increase on the basis of these new costs. it is not new that the council has tried to change the basic elements of the draft regulation in a fundamental way in the case of passenger rights in bus and coach transport. we know this position of the council from previous conciliation procedures. in this context, i would like to thank the vice-chair of the delegation, ms rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, the chair of the committee on transport and tourism, mr brian simpson, and the rapporteur, mr antonio canciano, for their well-done work. they did reach a very reasonable compromise. i consider the following to be positive elements in particular: 1. the definition of long-distance transport as transport over 250 km of the entire line, with the regulation also applying to persons who travel only part of the distance; 2. improving the position, albeit not ideal, of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility in this type of transport; 3. compensation and assistance in the event of an accident. i would like to note here that damage to ancillary equipment such as wheelchairs is assumed to be compensated in full, which brings with it some uncertainty and will certainly require this wording to be specified for insurance purposes, e.g. by an upper limit; 4. passengers' rights in the event of cancellation or delay are fairly clearly defined. i also regard the improvement in passenger information as positive; 5. like most of my colleagues, i welcome the fact that the transitional period for the implementation of this regulation has been reduced to a maximum of four years. on the contrary, i am not at all happy about the possibility of extending this period for another four years. i believe that there will be no major problem in establishing the exercise of passenger rights on lines parallel to the long-distance section in the near future. the question of the thresholds is, of course, the absence of an inflation clause which would adjust the thresholds in line with the evolution of the euro exchange rate so that the standard thresholds remain the same in real terms. i think the deal is a good compromise. the ultimate aim is to further extend passenger rights in all modes of transport and this further step in bus and coach transport is certainly a successful outcome of the conciliation procedure. the gue/ngl group supports this result.
in the past, the european parliament, together with the council, has adopted legislation on air and rail passenger rights. it is therefore logical that we are now adopting an analogous standard for bus transport, despite the fact that passengers in europe increasingly prefer individual transport and that the level of bus and coach transport itself is rapidly improving. but our drive and enthusiasm for regulation should have clear limits. it is logical to define basic standards for cross-border travel in the european union, to protect vulnerable groups of travellers and to ensure their rights. on the other hand, it is inappropriate interference in the internal market to try to extend the rights to local associations, to try to get the highest possible compensation and to regulate everything down to the last detail. it is clear that any unnecessary obligations impose additional costs on the carriers, which are ultimately reflected in the price of the ticket. as a former mayor, for example, i was concerned about the proposal to extend the directive to urban and suburban transport. i am glad that common sense has prevailed in this case and that urban and suburban transport has been spared excessive regulation.
madam president, the european parliament is voting on an important compromise which will significantly strengthen the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport. i consider it significant that, in addition to compensating passengers for loss of or damage to their luggage, compensation for bus delays and other measures, the enhanced rights of disabled passengers and persons with reduced mobility have also been included in this compromise. in particular, i support the right of disabled people to information and assistance services, at least as they were eventually agreed in the conciliation procedure. public transport is an essential and important part of the daily lives of people with reduced mobility. it was not easy to reach a compromise, and i would like to join in congratulating the rapporteur and all the members of the negotiating team on their hard work. the adoption of this regulation will bring about a common framework of protection for all modes of transport at european level, which is certainly not an ideal but nevertheless a very significant step forward in terms of passenger rights.
in writing. the report on passenger rights in bus and coach transport aims to establish passenger protection rights applicable throughout the union, for all carriers and for different modes of transport. the council did not agree with the ep's amendments, so it was necessary to open the conciliation procedure. the main points of the agreement reached are largely the same as those originally proposed by parliament. in particular, it is important that the regulation will apply to all scheduled, national and crossborder services, with member states being able to apply exemptions for scheduled services and certain specific services for a maximum of 8 years. passengers will be entitled to compensation in the event of an accident up to a maximum of eur 220 000 per person and eur 1 200 per baggage. in addition, the carrier must provide basic assistance (food, clothing, medical care) and accommodation for up to two nights in the event of an accident. in the event of a delay of more than 120 minutes or a cancellation of a connection, the carrier must offer the passenger the choice between continuing the journey, re-routing at no additional cost to the passenger or reimbursement of the fare. if he is unable to do so, he must reimburse the fare and pay an additional 50% of the fare. the agreement also protects the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. for these reasons, i fully support the adoption of the report.
in writing. i consider the adopted text of the regulation to be a balanced compromise ensuring passenger rights without imposing an excessive administrative burden on carriers, most of which are small and medium-sized enterprises. i consider it a success that the ep has managed to impose, against the will of the council, the application of the regulation to all scheduled, national and crossborder transport where the distance is 250 km or more, whereas the council has pushed for a minimum distance of 500 km. i welcome the fact that in the event of cancellation, delay of more than 120 minutes or overbooking, passengers will be entitled to a refund of 50% of the ticket price in addition to the right to continue or be rerouted to the final destination or reimbursement of the ticket price. as the bus passenger rights regulation follows the train passenger rights regulation, i am not pleased that, unlike bus passengers, train passengers in many eu countries have to wait to exercise their rights, especially as regards the right to a refund of between a quarter and half of the fare for delays of more than one hour. the czech ministry of transport also used the option of postponing the validity of the relevant european legislation by five years. it cited the relatively large construction activity on the domestic railway network, which is causing the delay of trains. this ultimately means the introduction of a double standard system that puts one group of passengers at a disadvantage compared to another.
in writing. − while it is understandable that the proposal is largely based on legislation on co2 emissions from passenger cars, it is also important to take into account that these sectors do not operate in the same way. light commercial vehicles have a longer development and production cycle and are used predominantly for commercial purposes and, unlike passenger cars, have fewer options for modifying their shape and weight, which would reduce emissions. the main way to achieve this in light commercial vehicles is by modifying the engine and vehicle mechanics, which is a much longer and more costly process than simply changing the body of the vehicle. the fact that diesel is used much more frequently as a fuel for light commercial vehicles also plays an important role. i have reservations about the proposal that the penalties for manufacturers not reducing co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles should be higher than the penalties for not reducing emissions in the passenger car sector. i believe that the penalties should be equal in both sectors. i understand the reasons for introducing speed limitation devices for light commercial vehicles, but i am afraid that this could become a precedent for introducing speed limitation devices for other types of vehicles. careful consideration should be given to whether the regulation is excessively restrictive beyond the principle of proportionality.
in writing. - the fragmented system of patent protection is, in my view, an obstacle to the internal market, which is particularly harmful to innovative smes. that is why i support the creation of a simplified, inexpensive, single patent for the whole of the eu. i regret that we were unable to reach a common solution because of irreconcilable differences of opinion on the revision of the patent translations. i regard the insistence on the need to translate patents into more of the eu's official languages as a manifestation of national selfishness, since the resulting costs, administrative burdens and time would largely erase the benefits of the unitary patent. i very much welcome the decision of my own country, the czech republic, to join the enhanced cooperation we have supported today, joining the ranks of the vast majority of member states that have already joined. although the unitary patent will not cover the whole of the eu, i have no doubt that it will be a useful tool for the development and competitiveness of smes.
in writing. − patent protection is one of the key tools for competitiveness and economic growth. it supports scientific research activities and thereby increases employment in the high value-added sector. i supported the parliament's recommendation on the draft council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of unitary patent protection, as it is based on the council conclusions of 4 december 2009 which define the future shape of the unitary patent system. this european patent system is to be based on two pillars, namely a single system for the settlement of patent disputes (european patent court and eu patent) and the creation of an eu patent (an instrument for the validity of a patent throughout the eu). enhanced patent cooperation will lead to easier validation of european patents in the territories of the participating member states, which will reduce costs and simplify the patent application process, while contributing to scientific and technical progress and enhancing the functioning of the internal market. the czech republic joined enhanced cooperation at the beginning of february this year and i therefore believe that my country's involvement in the system of unitary patent protection will also lead to the promotion of scientific capacities and better scientific results not only in the czech republic.
in writing. there is no doubt that the area of intellectual property rights, and in particular industrial property rights, deserves particular attention and care. but the eu institutions and bodies do not always succeed. complex system solutions are often overridden by particular or even lobbying interests. the problem of the eu formerly community patent is an example of this. the possibility now arises of at least a partial solution in the form of enhanced cooperation between some member states in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection. the czech republic is interested in participating in this enhanced cooperation and thus wishes to participate in the further negotiation of the specific proposals for the unified patent regulation and its language regime. failure to participate in enhanced cooperation would mean that it would be impossible to influence the shape of the future eu patent system. the economic contribution or benefits to the undertakings coming up with new technical solutions is also an important aspect, given the size of the common market of enhanced cooperation participants. i would also like to recall that the czech republic reserves the right to withdraw from enhanced cooperation if such cooperation takes a direction which is contrary to the positions of the czech republic, in particular on the language regime and the area of patent litigation.
in writing. − i am convinced that enhanced cooperation on patent protection will help to remove fragmentation in this area, provide better frameworks for innovative businesses across the union, lead to a more globally competitive eu and a better functioning eu internal market. the expected reduction in the costs associated with the patent protection process is also undeniable. that's why i endorsed the report.
mr president, whatever our relationship with the single currency, i believe it is in the interest of everyone living in the european union that the euro and the euro area develop stably, whether we use the euro or not, because our economies are very closely interlinked. however, when president barroso described the european stability mechanism, he used words such as better surveillance, broader economic coordination, coordination of budgetary policies, harmonisation of social policies. this, my friends, is opening the way to fiscal union, and economic history does not know that fiscal union could ever survive without the creation of political union. so this little change that we're talking about here today is a huge change for individual member states in the european union. the european union is changing politically for the future. mr weber said that 'european citizens want a stronger europe'. we've known that all along. let's ask them, because for decades now, european citizens have only accepted, not decided, what happens in the european institutions.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent handling of the many hundreds of amendments that have been tabled. although the report is not legislative, it is of great importance for the future of social systems in the member states of the european union. the main conclusions we support are:- decision-making on pension systems is a political decision-making in the full and exclusive responsibility of individual member states; - the increase in the retirement age is necessary; - the only source of growth in the european union in the coming years will be labour productivity growth; - the key role is to promote the employment of older workers, in particular by making labour relations more flexible and by correctly adjusting pension systems; - coordination of pension systems and their reform at the level of the european union is not appropriate; - we do not support the unification of the retirement age within the eu or its link to the average lifespan; - we do not support any attempt to harmonise definitions, such as the adequacy of pensions, at community level.
in writing. colleagues, virtually all countries are faced with the question of how to finance pension systems based on rolling funding in the future, due to the ageing of the population. i appreciate the excellent report by mrs oomen-ruijten, which opens the door to solutions and honours subsidiarity. let me mention a recipe that has been promoted for many years by kdu-čsl in the czech republic. children who are gainfully employed should be able to transfer part of their compulsory contributions to the current scheme to a pension account for their parents and to partially compensate them for the costs of childcare through this contribution to a higher pension. this individualised intergenerational solidarity is both more fair to today's pensioners who have properly raised the next generation and is also certain to help rehabilitate the social status of multi-family families. having kids should pay off, not just pay off. this is the master key that permanently addresses both the consequences and, more importantly, the cause of our pension problem.
in writing. ten years of work on the green paper, wrongly titled 'towards adequate, sustainable and reliable pension systems in europe', has produced a completely anti-social collection of nonsense. i don't know how it is in other countries, but in the czech republic, for example, the birth rate projections that experts drew up ten years ago differ so radically from the current reality that i consider the green paper's claims for the years 2040 to 2060 to be completely nonsensical. if experts cannot predict the birth rate for five to seven years, what value can their forecasts have over a period of 30 years? the whole green paper is based on the false assumption that if i mandate by law that a taxpayer invest a portion of the funds allocated to the pension system in a non-guaranteed fund, then he will receive a higher pension than just the first pillar. the constitutional court responsible will necessarily declare such a law unconstitutional. even in countries where the second pillar was introduced in the past, it was found that this path does not lead. for example, in chile in the 1970s, after pinochet's coup, private funds not guaranteed by the state became a duty for citizens outside the military and the police. why would i do that? why is the current conservative hungarian government also eliminating the inefficient second pillar of pension security? these are the main reasons why the gue/ngl group cannot vote for the report by mrs oomen-ruijten. we can't support the upcoming heist of the century!
madam chairman, i would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for a job well done. we all know the pharmaceutical industry is a huge business. they say it's the third largest in the world after drugs and guns. so it's a pie that someone will always try to get illegally. we'll never be able to stop fake drugs from coming. our task is to minimise the risk of them reaching the european market and reaching our citizens. we know that if someone sells a fake watch, it's a violation of intellectual property, but if they sell counterfeit medicines, it's a direct threat to health. that's what led us all to support this report. we know that it doesn't solve everything, we know that there's a problem with, for example, the fact that the packaging is often manufactured separately from the medicine, and there are counterfeit medicines in real packaging going around the world. but it's a step in the right direction and it's about maximizing protection.
madam chairman, for two years we have been discussing the alarming rise of counterfeit medicines, including life-saving ones, in our market. the result is a good directive, which tightens controls on distributors and dealers, introduces mandatory security features and checks on their integrity. manufacturers will also assess the risks of excipients, and this has been done for years in the czech republic, for example. so it's great that it's going to be for the whole of the european union. it is also necessary that the system is not limited to prescription medicines. if we are not to lose our fight against counterfeiting, member states will have to achieve a higher degree of integration in the health sector, agree to ban websites offering counterfeits and introduce inspections of producers in third countries, as they already do for imported food. there are 500 fake drug factories in china alone. we simply have to add more gas if we want to strengthen the security of the european market.
in writing. the report is generally favourable for croatia. it shows that the country is close to the end of accession negotiations. however, as in previous years, it also points to persistent, often serious, shortcomings. in the light of the experience of the croatian-slovenian territorial dispute, it is concerned that a more significant positive shift is not taking place in a number of territorial disputes between croatia and its other neighbours (in particular bosnia and herzegovina, but also serbia and montenegro). serious questions have long been raised by the very complacent attitude towards the punishment of war crimes committed against serbs. there are still "several hundred cases" to be investigated and prosecuted, whose ignorance by the croatian judiciary keeps the serbs suspicious. croatia has also still not submitted the so-called artillery diaries to the icty. so it is time to think about how far the eu wants to go on this issue. even the return of serb refugees in 2010 was limited. the report does not say how many of the approximately 130,000 serbs who returned to croatia after the war are from serbia and how many are from the republika srpska in bosnia and herzegovina. however, the number of serb refugees in the republic of serbia (bosnia and herzegovina) has remained roughly the same for several years (between 25 000 and 35 000 persons). the croatian authorities are preventing their return (mainly because they do not address issues such as the return of property, apartments, rental rights, pensions, etc.).
in writing. - the report proposed is a good continuation of the work carried out in the previous parliamentary term. the commission proposal, despite all the recommendations, avoids defining the terms in detail. such an approach could have the consequence that the protection of patients as consumers of medicinal products would not be complete and enforceable. i therefore welcome amendment no 120, which substantially clarifies the original commission proposal. the definition of 'falsified medicinal product' is very positive. the proposal on 'supply chains' is also excellent, as it increases the right of patients to protection if approved. i consider it absolutely essential to enforce recital 5c of amendment no 120, which provides for the possibility of enforcement and control of compliance with eu rules. the amendment brings eu rules into line with the conclusions of the court of justice. in this context, the proposal also supports member states' own action to increase consumer protection.
in writing. - as external financing for many smes depends on loans and credits, it is necessary to establish loan and credit guarantee programmes and to increase the role of the european investment bank in this respect. the commission should also seek to remove the obstacles to the development of risk capital and bond markets in europe and extend risk-sharing instruments to equity investments. this requires an increased awareness of the risks of many national tax and incentive systems that incentivise debt financing and discourage debt financing through equity capital increases. i consider the complexity of eu financial regulations and guidelines for european financial instruments to be a serious problem, especially when european funds and programmes are used to support individual businesses by providing relatively small amounts of funding. the time and financial requirements to meet the requirements of these regulations are totally disproportionate to the benefit to the final recipient of the funds. the fragmentation of sme support programmes is also unsatisfactory. the commission should ensure that the cip, the 7th framework programme and jeremie are more closely linked and that a single contact point is established for them, where smes can obtain clear and comprehensive information on the possibilities of using these instruments.
madam president, if we are to have a serious debate on the rise in food prices, we should not avoid the question, which may be unpleasant for some, of the extent to which the european union itself is contributing to this negative development. all commodity analysts agree that two factors are driving the rise in food prices. the first is the massive printing of new money that has been happening in the united states and the european union in recent months. and it is the influx of this new money into the markets that is driving up the prices of food and other commodities. so the fault is not with speculators, as the report we are discussing today claims, but with the faulty policies of the us, european and other central banks. the second factor pushing up food prices is the policy of both the european union and the united states, which is forcing consumers to use biofuels more and more. the commitments made by the eu and the us in this area have been the source of a sharp increase in the volume of non-food commodities grown on agricultural land. as a result, less and less agricultural land is used for food production, and food prices logically rise as a result. if we want to help reduce world food prices, we must abandon our nonsensical policy of promoting biofuels.
in writing. according to the world bank, food prices have risen by more than 15% since october 2010 alone, and for example, the price of cereals has increased by 39% year-on-year according to the fao. in addition to threatening the lower income groups, food price increases signal much deeper and more serious problems that pose a major threat for the future. global food production is threatened by a number of factors, such as pests, disease, and natural disasters. these factors are currently being exacerbated by extremes in weather likely to be caused by climate change. good examples are the drought and fires in russia in 2010, or the floods in pakistan and recently in australia. so it can be expected that the food price problem may worsen in the future. the debate on the origins of climate change is futile in this case, because the risks are real and questioning them is an unacceptable gamble. however, food prices are also influenced by economic factors, in particular the abuse of the market system by state manipulation of the us dollar and irresponsible speculation in commodity trades. europe must realise that the decisions it makes now will affect the future of the whole food system. in the short term, we can reduce food waste, reduce our dependence on imports, reduce or stabilise consumption and set up regulatory mechanisms in the market to prevent speculation.
mr commissioner, i wholeheartedly support all the steps taken by the high representative to help egypt achieve democracy and prosperity without further bloodshed. but that doesn't mean turning a blind eye to the growing violence that radical muslims are now committing against the copts. i'm in contact with europeans and czechs who are helping the copts, but they are literally risking their lives as well. the european union must call on the egyptian military to set an example by punishing the persecutors of christians. at the same time, the european union should actively help the endangered copts to temporarily reach a safe country. i would ask you to propose to the council an interim protection institute under directive 2001/55/ec to enable the copts to save their lives until egypt is a safer home for them. can you take a stand on that, commissioner?
in writing. the report presented focuses on several aspects of the european investment bank's activities. part of its activities focuses on delivering eu development policy in countries that have difficulty obtaining finance on acceptable terms on capital markets. through this policy, the eu, through the eib, seeks to bridge the gap between the north and the south, as less developed countries have less access to finance for the development of their economies. i believe it is entirely right that the eu's instruments for aid to third countries should be maintained and appropriately extended as an expression of the eu's solidarity with third countries and to fulfil the eu's share of responsibility for the functioning of the global economy. i consider the extension of the eib's mandate to include operational guidelines, to be drawn up by the commission together with the eib after consulting the european external action service, for each region under the mandate for lending to third countries, to be the right step to achieve the eu's external policy objectives. i also see the eib's mandate to lend to iceland, belarus, libya, iraq and cambodia as being activated. while iceland is an economic aid donor, the other countries mentioned above need to be very careful to ensure that aid is directed exclusively towards the promotion of democracy and human rights.
the next item is the vote (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes) – before the vote:
mr karim, i can assure you that this matter is being taken very seriously. according to my information, it is being discussed at the conference of presidents, so you can be sure parliament is paying great attention to this problem. it is a very serious matter.
in the light of recent developments, the text on the media law in hungary, the vote on which was tabled for today, will have to be revised. i therefore propose that this vote be postponed under rule 177(4). the decision on further action on this issue and on the necessary new deadlines will be taken at the meeting of the conference of presidents on thursday, 3 march 2011. who wishes to speak in favour? who wishes to speak against?
so that was the proposal in favour. who wants to speak against? no one? then we will proceed to the vote. who is in favour of postponement? against? abstentions? the proposal is carried. the vote on this item is postponed.
i put this fantastic agreement to the vote. it is a roll-call vote. it is carried. congratulations to mr sturdy.
that concludes the vote.
in writing. since 1963, the european investment bank (eib) has been conducting financing operations outside the eu in addition to its core mission of financing investment in the eu in support of the eu's external policy objectives, in particular in the field of development cooperation. the proposed eu guarantee for the period 2011-2013 aims to enable the eib to finance investments outside the eu without adversely affecting its credit standing. the proposal also contains several new elements, such as the activation of an additional mandate of eur 2 billion to combat climate change, fully in line with the europe 2020 strategy, the introduction of new horizontal targets and the extension of the range of countries for eib lending. the proposal also includes requirements for greater transparency, evaluation of concrete results and the role of the european court of auditors in carrying out audits of the transactions concerned. the proposal also correctly contains an arrangement for the eib to act in this area in accordance with the principles of aid effectiveness under the european consensus on development, as well as article 208 tfeu, the 2005 paris declaration and the 2008 accra action programme. overall, i consider that the report presented by my colleague ivail kalfin provides a detailed analysis of the issue, refers to the relevant eu legislation and also contains relevant recommendations in the area of monitoring the effectiveness of the proposed guarantee, and therefore i recommend that it be approved as proposed.
in writing. in addition to my position and in view of the preparation process for the eu-republic of korea free trade agreement, which is accompanied by a number of concerns and expectations not only of the industries concerned, i would like to add the following. the long-standing trade rules between the eu and the republic of korea are hereby significantly modified. assessing their impact will only be realistic over a longer time horizon. only results and calculations after a longer period of time show the state of the considered economic prosperity of all the parties to this agreement, the declared bilateral improvement of the trade balance or the contribution to the improvement of the social situation. the total quantity and variety of products traded between them, which are inextricably linked to their certified quality and proven place of origin, need to be monitored and evaluated regularly, in a coordinated and careful manner. the possible direct application of the aforementioned safeguards arising from the bilateral safeguard clause of the eu-republic of korea free trade agreement would be a highly sensitive issue and the result could be contrary to the euphoria preceding the adoption of this agreement.
in writing. the danube river connects ten european countries. the danube also represents a major socio-economic potential, with over 200 million people living in its vicinity. the danube is an important interface for eu cohesion policy programmes. the danube strategy focuses on three priority areas: connectivity and communication (including transport, energy, information society); environmental protection and prevention of natural hazards; strengthening the potential for socio-economic development. i believe that the implementation of the danube strategy should be based on a 'bottom up approach' in terms of facilitating the movement of goods and improving infrastructure, and thus the general conditions for doing business throughout the region. the strategy should not be the reason for the creation of new institutions. its main purpose should be to strengthen coordination between the various regional actors. for this reason, no specific financial allocation should be made to the strategy. the principle of budgetary, legislative and administrative neutrality, which was approved by the council, must therefore be maintained. in this sense, macro-regional strategies should be primarily a tool for more effective cooperation and the use of existing resources. at the same time, criticism of the commission's intention to encourage shipping on the danube mainly by improving its navigability must be addressed. mechanical interventions in the riverbed, according to critics, will endanger the vegetation on its banks and the overall deterioration of the surrounding environment.
in writing. - i have read the motion for a resolution on the rule of law in russia. i have three little notes. in particular, i think it is right that the european parliament should use every opportunity to raise the issue of human rights and the quality of the rule of law. we should do this more often, and we should do it to all countries. the second point concerns the form. our comments must be objective. that means not just paternalistically instructing others, but offering a helping hand. honestly, i don't understand how all the critics of the trial of the yukos oligarchs can be so sure that it is a trial under political pressure? the political pressure is certainly to challenge the verdict, which does not take into account the evidence presented of tax evasion and other violations of the law. why do critics automatically assume that the evidence is fabricated? i could give you more examples of this. russia has two basic problems related to the rule of law; the first is the fact that it is undergoing a transformation of law and legal culture. it takes time, not just the goodwill of the kremlin. the second is the unstable security situation and the distrust of the good intentions of some of the advisers. how will the european union help russia in the fight against terrorism and in the extradition of terror suspects who have found safe haven in the union states? how will it deal with violations of the political rights of so-called non-citizens in the countries of the union? it's not enough to advise, it's necessary to help.
for the ecr group. mr. chairman, the board in this room says that today's material is called innovative finance. i think it is fair and correct to say that we are talking about the introduction of new european taxes and we already know in advance who will pay these new european taxes. they're paid by the banks and they're paid by the financial institutions. i think it's wrong to blame the banks for starting the financial crisis or for causing the economic crisis, because we know for a long time that the main causes of the crisis are economic imbalances in the global economy, long-term low interest rates, excessive regulation of the financial sector and, unfortunately, political interference in areas where political agencies have no place. it is very controversial to read in the material how much, for example, the european union or european institutions will gain from the introduction of a financial transaction tax, because as with any tax and with the introduction of any new taxes, it is very likely that the financial sector will optimise its revenues or even - unfortunately for the european economy - move its tax residences outside the european union. and if banks and financial institutions stay here and if they provide financial services, as of course they will, then of course they pass these costs on to their clients and to consumers. i think that european countries - and this is well illustrated - are going through a very complicated period of fiscal consolidation and the european institutions should not be left out. unfortunately, not a word about the european institutions cutting spending, but rather about the introduction of new taxes. if the european institutions were to get rid of the parts of their european agencies that are often unnecessary, redundant and expensive, there would certainly be funds left to support some of the european projects. let me say one more thing about eurobonds. if the eurobonds are approved, then there is no need to save, no need to save, no need to reform, because someone will always pay. the moral hazard is deepening. european conservatives will vote against this bill because we are against the introduction of new taxes or raising taxes.
mr president, the baltic macro strategy is clearly inspiring other regions. after the danube macro strategy, we have a strategy for the atlantic region on the table. but in this case, the situation is somewhat specific. the european union has been paying attention to the atlantic region for some time now, in the context of the development of crossborder and transnational cooperation. the atlantic region was a region supported under interreg iii b and is also an integral part of the current objective 3 territorial cooperation programme. the priority of these supported programmes was to extend regional development strategies to the transnational level, to promote transport systems and better access to the information society, to promote environmental and natural resources protection and to promote the economic integration of peripheral regions in particular. it would therefore be highly desirable to first evaluate existing programmes, define their contribution and then, on the basis of the findings, develop a new strategy for this area. but we should not forget to include transatlantic links in this strategy. like it or not, we are part of a euro-atlantic civilization and share similar values. as overseas, we seek a land of freedom from barriers to the free movement of goods, capital, people and services. although the objectives of the united states and the european union are in principle complementary, they are often only minimally coordinated. it is therefore desirable to create the conditions for transatlantic cooperation in european programmes and policies. more ambitious cooperation and better coordination within the european union atlantic strategy could try to cover a more ambitious agenda in this regard, as voluntary practical cooperation on common themes could greatly assist in strengthening transatlantic ties.
mr president, allow me to draw the attention of the european parliament to the judgment of the european court of justice last week, c-236/09, which will make it impossible to distinguish between insured persons by sex as from 21 december next year. the union directive or its interpretation in this case clearly exceeded the threshold, is contrary to the laws of nature and will have a substantially negative impact on the insurance sector. it is as illogical as forbidding insurance companies to take into account, when calculating the cost of nonlife insurance, whether a house is on a hill or in a swampy area or whether a motor vehicle driver is a frequent wrecker. and it's not just demographers who know that in advanced societies, for almost the entire age range, the mortality rate of the male population is higher than the mortality rate of the female population, and usually very significantly higher. women tend to live 10 percent longer than men. in the czech republic, it is now 73 years for men and 80 years for women. to deny this truth and to impose a directive from brussels on insurance companies not to distinguish between men and women is contrary to all the mathematics of insurance, but above all it is a fundamental discrimination against groups of insured persons. as a result, women will have to pay higher premiums and men will receive lower pensions.
mr president, we have been looking for a long time here in parliament for instruments which would make it possible to prevent more and more dangerous products from entering the market. i agree with the author of the report that a review of the legislation is needed and that it should lead to better coherence of all measures, including the coordination of criminal sanctions at member state level. i also support the proposal to make it compulsory to carry out and publish risk analyses before new production is launched. since it is precisely from third countries that the most dangerous products come, i consider it crucial that this obligation be included in international trade agreements before we introduce it for european producers. i also support the other proposals and appreciate the high quality of mrs schaldemos' report.
mr president, today we can say, so-called after the battle, that the trillions of euros spent on the h1n1 flu were disproportionately high in relation to the actual severity of the flu. as a doctor, i find it very instructive that in poland, where the government did not succumb to pressure and did not agree to a nationwide vaccination, the mortality rate was not higher than in countries with high vaccination rates. i congratulate mrs rivasi on her useful report and i hope that the member states and all international organisations will learn from it, in particular by buying medicines together, but above all by improving the way epidemiological data are evaluated and by restoring credibility to recommendations addressed to citizens in the european union.
mr president, we have been very active in promoting innovative medicine in recent years, and i therefore welcome the report which draws attention to the disadvantaged groups in access to treatment and, in particular, prevention, which i consider to be crucial. however, in a number of respects, the report infringes the subsidiarity principle of the member states. i fundamentally reject the wording of, say, paragraph 25, because abortion should not be a method of birth control. points 29, 26 and 53 are also in dispute. i also want to point out that life expectancy, which shows really large differences within the 27s, is only partly driven by the level of health care and access to it. this is more influenced by the overall standard of living, lifestyle, or level of development or well-being of countries, which are not the same and which should help to balance even development programmes financed by eu funds.
in writing. any food dependence puts the eu in a very vulnerable position. in the case of protein crops, their cultivation brings a number of economic, ecological and agronomic benefits. reducing meat consumption in favour of plant-based protein in the diet has positive effects on the environment and human health. excessive imports of protein crops and their derivatives destabilise european agriculture, especially small and medium-sized farms, and contribute to price instability. the low level of domestic production of protein crops, in turn, limits research, seed production and knowledge of sustainable technologies, in particular as regards the inclusion of husks in sowing practices and the adequate use of grassland. there are a few key measures that need to be taken. the commission must report on the possibilities for increasing protein crop production in the eu, support research, breeding and seeding of protein crops and, in the context of the rural development programme, promote protein crops as a quality source of feed. a monitoring mechanism for the origin of imported protein crops focusing on the sustainability of the farming practices used by the countries of origin should be established. the commission is also invited to present targeted measures to promote the cultivation of fallow land, which could make a significant contribution to reducing the protein deficit in the eu. in the context of climate change, soil fertility, water protection and biodiversity, the production and targeted support of protein crops should be increased in the european union.
madam president, it is clear that the entire european union and its member states will continue to face the fading effects of the economic and financial crisis in 2012. the european parliament must therefore adapt its budgetary strategy to this situation. we must strive for maximum budget discipline and austerity. i am glad to have found this fact in the report and that the report emphasizes this fact. but alignment cannot mean spending growth in line with inflation. our aim must be to keep parliament's expenditure at the same level as this year. the maximum effort must be made to save and make better use of existing parliamentary capacities. this must cover all areas of parliament's work, from the rationalisation of building management to the better use of information technology and personnel policy. the opportunity to save money exists here and we must find the courage to realize it.
for the ecr group. madam president, i am the shadow rapporteur for the report on the situation of women in poverty in europe, so i will focus on this report. this report covers a whole range of issues that illustrate very well the position of women in the european union. i am pleased that there are many points in this report which point to the need to make use of flexible forms of work, including fixed-term and part-time work, because i believe that women who are on their own, in particular, but also families with young children in general, need to take advantage of this wide range of offers on the labour market in order to be able to combine their working and family life. at the same time, i of course welcome and fully support the fact that the continuing large gender pay gap is again highlighted. i just want to say, very quickly, that the report contains some things that we can hardly support. this is the case, for example, with the call for a european charter of women's rights or the reference to the report on maternity leave, which, as we know, has not been accepted by the member states. in this spirit, we have tabled certain amendments. i would like to thank the rapporteur, because the report is really good and comprehensive.
in writing. the issue of gender equality, especially at the time of the centenary of international women's day, deserves due attention. i personally consider a number of points in the report to be extremely important. one of the things i'd like to highlight is the gender pension gap. this inequality is due to the fact that working women interrupt their professional activity more often than men to take care of children and sick or elderly family members, and because of their family obligations, they are more willing than men to accept part-time work or work in precarious conditions. this is precisely what leads to inequality in pension levels. i consider it equally important to call for special attention to be paid to vulnerable groups of women, such as disabled or elderly women, immigrant women, lesbian, bisexual and transgender women or minorities, and low-skilled or unskilled women caring for dependent persons. lastly, i consider it important to ensure access to support services aimed at preventing gender-based violence and protecting women from it, regardless of their legal status, race, age, sexual orientation, ethnic origin or religion, as the report also calls on the commission and the member states to do.
in writing. even a century after the first public appearances of women in the struggle for their rights, it has not yet brought the desired result. quite the opposite. the current crisis is turning the wheel of history in the solution of the equality of men and women back a few meters. women today, just as they did 100 years ago, are taking to the streets again all over the world. they are leading demonstrations in greece, spain, the czech republic and belgium, but also in north african countries. what the eu had boasted of until recently - the improvement in women's position in the labour market and in access to education, the quality of life, the provision of health care for women and greater representation in state bodies - seemed to be pushed to the margins of society's interests as the crisis deepened. anti-crisis measures are more targeted at the male population. women's needs are seen as secondary. the last hundred years have shown what women have been able to give to the world, the progress, the lives they have sacrificed in the struggle for peace. and how many new lives they've brought into the world. that's not a small thing. but the world still owes women something. not to take them at their mercy, but to clearly declare their equal status in society. these women are not fighting for themselves, but for a better, more humane world.
in writing. social cohesion and the european social model are values that distinguish europe from societies in other parts of the world. the question is how sustainable these values are in the context of the call for global competitiveness based on lower labour costs, relaxation of labour laws, reduced social protection for workers and a weakened role for the state. this is unlikely to significantly strengthen global competitiveness, but it is much more likely to irreversibly undermine social cohesion and open up the gaps in society. and let's not be wrong. women are being threatened in a fundamental way by these measures. the pay gap has a significant impact, as have budget cuts in the public sector. pension and health reforms at national level must be gender-equitable from this perspective. it is no coincidence that older women are the most affected by poverty in europe. the fight against these inequalities is not a virtual reality. it's about specific people.
in writing. − i support the final report on the review of the general product safety and market surveillance directive. i appreciate that the final text no longer contains proposals for the establishment of additional agencies and that this will not place a further burden on the budget. i would like to highlight in the report the emphasis it places on standardisation as a regulatory tool, which is essentially an example of 'smart regulation', i.e. regulation that is not designed from above but from below by stakeholders. this is why i would call for greater involvement of market surveillance authorities in the process of developing safety standards, as this is an opportunity to ensure that their knowledge is adequately taken into account in the standardisation process. in the context of greater accessibility in the area of product safety standards development, i see the need to focus on the stability of the european standardisation system, to simplify european standards and to reduce the time needed to develop them.
in writing. - i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very detailed and frank report, which contains many alarming statements. there is no doubt that the eu's common approach during the pandemic has tested the capacity of joint action, but it has also revealed significant weaknesses, especially in the areas of prevention, objective statistics and the procurement of safe and effective medicines. the eu has recently faced the challenge of a dangerous viral infection twice. the experience was not sufficiently exploited. i welcome the proposals to tighten up the verification of the efficacy of medicines, the pressure to collect objective data and the interest in protecting all eu citizens, regardless of their healthcare system. i consider the requirement of funding for research and development and the rule that pharmaceutical companies will have a consultative voice, not a decisive one, to be essential. the same is true of studies, testing of vaccines and other medicines that must be developed independently of pharmaceutical companies. i also support the call for stricter rules for experts and advisers working for the european institutions. the public must be informed in a clear and transparent manner, but in a manner that does not cause panic but provides qualified and comprehensible information. as quaestor with joint responsibility for the health protection of meps and staff, i can say that our measures in the ep have been effective, but not cheap.
in writing. the eu is still reeling from the financial crisis, which in 2009-2010 spilled over into a budgetary crisis, with the over-issuance of government bonds as a significant aspect. however, unlike the approved report, i see less market pressure than the irresponsible fiscal policies of many national governments unwilling to reform their pension, health and employment systems. i see blaming the market for failure as an alibi and turning a blind eye to the lack of courage to make the necessary reforms. we have already approved rules for stronger financial regulation and supervision of the financial market, now we should move on to the impulses to stimulate the european economy, for example in the form of funding for joint infrastructure projects and tax incentives for businesses to invest in science and research. i warn against the introduction of a financial transaction tax and various forms of bank taxes, as this would result in the deception of the financial market and distortion of competition. nor are eurobonds a solution, which would merely shift fiscal irresponsibility to the european level, to places further away from public control, where the temptation to overspend would be even more resisted than at the national level. i also do not share the idea of a pan-european carbon tax, which would disproportionately burden the energy sector in particular and ultimately reduce the eu's energy security.
in writing. financial transactions account for a large proportion of resources in the financial sector, and it was the various speculative operations in financial markets that contributed significantly to the global financial crisis. it is certainly not right to leave the burden of the financial crisis solely on taxpayers, but it is necessary to shift some of this burden onto the financial sector to share the costs as well. the report focuses primarily on those transactions that are highly risky and speculative, and therefore, as a result of future taxation of financial transactions, will lead to a greater degree of financial sector responsibility, which paradoxically will lead to a greater degree of stability of the global financial sector. another reason for introducing a financial transaction tax is also the fact that in most member states financial services are not subject to vat.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and thank her for accepting my amendments. the issue of equal access to health is one of the pillars of our common policy, both now and especially in the future. inequality in the performance of economies and the current crisis must not be the limit to ensuring equal opportunities for eu citizens to receive healthcare, regardless of the diversity of health systems. i find the emphasis in the text on raising patient awareness, quality legal advice, including for immigrants, including illegal immigrants, very important. the basic principle must be that the health of individual citizens is ensured by territorial and financial accessibility, not just of medicines. ensuring coordination of education and training for healthcare professionals and establishing minimum standards of quality and safety of care will be important factors for progress. the rapporteur rightly emphasises the need to prevent both smoking and obesity and other diseases that affect active life expectancy. i support the strong call for the commission to influence member states to provide and pay for treatment for patients with diseases such as alzheimer's, diabetes, multiple sclerosis. these are diseases for which treatment is not covered in some member states. these diseases affect both the elderly and, in particular, young people and lead to social exclusion.
in writing. − i consider it important to highlight the link between eu agricultural production and international trade, which is reflected in the fact that the eu is the world's largest importer of agricultural goods and also the world's largest exporter of processed food products. in this context, i am convinced that smooth trade flows contribute to greater flexibility for producers and to lower costs of exchanging goods, which has a positive impact on both producers' incomes and consumers' expenditure. i cannot therefore agree with the statement in the resolution that trade liberalization has not eliminated the threat of hunger in the world. such a task does not and cannot belong to the business. i commend the commission for using the steps resulting from the long-running reform as a bargaining chip in the wto negotiations and in bilateral or bi-regional negotiations in the field of agriculture, while always recognising the cap parameters as an unbridgeable boundary. in this respect, the adopted text of the resolution seems to me to be unfortunately rather one-sided and to call into question the commission's actions in the current trade policy negotiations. i see a clear opportunity and benefit in any further flexibility in the forthcoming negotiations. to the criticism of some of the measures, such as the reduction of import duties on bananas or the reform of the sugar regime, i add that they were primarily based on the conclusions of the wto dispute settlement, which also influenced the parameters of subsequent measures on the eu side.
in writing. the decline in the production of protein-rich crops and the replacement of domestic production by massive cheap imports may ultimately have a negative impact in terms of loss of experience in the cultivation processes themselves. research on growing these crops in domestic conditions can be largely suppressed. i also consider it important to maintain sufficient variety in the selection or supply of this production. as in many reports and proposals before parliament, the need for quality production is mentioned. in relation to the production referred to above, it is necessary to check the samples themselves, which would be inseparable from the verification of the agricultural practices and means used locally. quality control using modern laboratory methods and the unambiguous determination of the origin of the goods at import should be very careful and rigorous. for most eu countries, there is some typical crop from this production. in the czech republic, for example, it is a game that has its long tradition here. however, its cultivation is now in decline. the position of the czech republic supports the report submitted in general terms.
in writing. as a member of the european parliament and as a doctor, i agree with the conclusions of the report. the damage caused by the anti-social policies of most eu governments will sooner or later affect the health of many socially vulnerable groups of citizens, especially women. it is precisely the concern for the healthy development of the present and future population of europe, which is directly proportional to the quality of health and to the full, equal social status of women in society, that led me to vote in favour of the report. if we are not indifferent to the fate of europe, to the viability and development of the eu, we cannot solve its problems without ensuring equal status for women. to underestimate this question is to disregard the rights of 50% of eu citizens. this may ultimately lead to the alienation of many citizens from the eu, even though the europe 2020 strategy does not forget to address these issues. the eu, its men and women. they embody her potential and creative development. when poverty and social exclusion, as statistical surveys in the eu show, affect almost one in six citizens, it is up to us as members not only to call on the commission and the member states, but also to put effective pressure on the implementation of the concrete measures taken to combat poverty, anti-social austerity measures and to prevent further social declines, especially for women.
in writing. − the ecr group recognises that a number of points in this report are necessary in order to encourage women into the labour market, for example, flexible working, childcare provisions and maternity leave provision, and we welcome the calls to eradicate the gender pay gap. the ecr group, however, believes that these are policy areas which should be addressed at national level, not eu level. the ecr group does oppose an unnecessary and bureaucratic women's charter and any moves towards the harmonisation of social security systems across the eu. we have therefore decided to abstain on the final vote on this report and have voted in favour of specific paragraphs which we feel are important, for example paragraphs 34, 58, 60, 65 and 69.
mr president, the 2010 report on turkey's humility is certainly one of the more complicated reports we are discussing here. despite all the complexity, we should not be swayed by historical prejudices. the events in turkey recently are undoubtedly matters that are unacceptable in the sense of european democratic principles. we should intensify our negotiations with the turkish authorities even more. turkey's geopolitical importance to the complex middle east region is crucial for europe. of course, this position cannot be abused. but if we have an open and principled dialogue with the turkish representatives, that may be the way to improve the understanding of democratic rules. turkey's economic development in recent years has been truly remarkable, and its industry is becoming an important partner for european companies in many areas. it is therefore important that these economic relations also correspond to the political relations of the european union with a clear outlook for the future. if turkey is really interested in joining the european union, it cannot take the steps we have seen recently. for many reasons, i strongly support the further process of turkey's rapprochement with the european union.
we're only two years away from a big anniversary. this year marks 48 years since turkey became a candidate country for eu membership. a lot has happened in that time, no doubt. the country's economic development, together with the opening up of the eu market, certainly played a role. however, the country's problem still remains a number of elements that were established already at the birth of the modern turkish state. the 1924 treaty clearly states that citizens of islam are turks, citizens of other faiths are greek catholics. other nationalities are not covered by this treaty. what was progressive in 1924, the recognition that one could be of a different faith than muslim, has a completely different connotation today. declaring a non-turkish nationality is not an easy matter in turkey, whether it is kurds, circassians or other nationalities who have obviously lived in turkey for years, but their recognition including enforcement of their nationality rights in real life will take a long time. the key elements of the current negotiating impasse are the failure to resolve the occupation of cyprus, the inaction on the un resolution on famagusta and the failure to fulfil the 'tasks' of past reports. reducing the role of the military is a positive, but only if secular forces are in power. otherwise, he could threaten the stability of the entire region.
in writing. the report on the european roma inclusion strategy lists the issues and difficulties faced by roma communities in the eu. the nature of poverty in central and south-eastern europe has changed significantly over the past two decades. political and economic changes have also disrupted traditional communities, making roma the most excluded and least educated subgroup in society. the romani population is also characterised by a typical demographic dynamic. as the majority of society ages, the share of roma in a high-growth society increases. all of this makes it clear that, without increasing roma employment and integrating more roma into mainstream society, the costs of sustaining the situation will continue to rise, such as the costs of social assistance and benefits, unnecessary education costs, additional costs of security, administrative costs of overseeing social spending, and higher healthcare costs. roma inclusion is therefore not only a human rights and moral obligation but also, and above all, an economic necessity. most of the measures implemented so far are so-called non-enforceable provisions. however, if progress is to be made, the eu roma inclusion strategy needs to go beyond this so-called soft law and become part of the instruments provided for by primary law.
the debate on industry is very important for europe today. the competitiveness of european companies is crucial to the continued economic stability of europe. we are all aware of these arguments, but on the other hand we are often tempted to endorse commitments, whether in the form of extreme environmental demands or mandatory fiscal obligations to ensure financial stability. it is certainly important to assess the environmental impact of industrial production rigorously, but we must not burden industry indirectly with some excessive regulations. in the context of a globalised world, it may be that european industrial production will be the one most affected by policy decisions. i consider the most important point in the report to be the emphasis on the importance of promoting science and research and innovation. europe has long been a leader in innovation. support for innovative projects is essential. i strongly agree that there is a need to rethink the procedures for financial support for innovative projects. we should aim to simplify administration, but we also need to change the overall approach. it is necessary to take into account the commercialisation of research and the financing of european funds.
madam president, i would like to make just three comments. the first is that europe should strive for a pioneering spirit, to have technological priorities, to be the leader in certain fields, to have not only comparative advantages but also absolute advantages, because average product quality also results in average prices. secondly, i would say that it is important to seek to mediate between large and small systems, because concentration on large systems does not produce the desired results. an example is the general motors failure, which cost the american taxpayer $57.6 billion. the third thing is that industrial policy should not be based on the so-called political and economic elites alone, but should be based on a big stream of small innovations from below, i.e. the big technological breakthroughs are based on a large number of small innovations that come from the work collectives.
in writing. greece's long-term fiscal imbalance resulted in a major crisis rescue package in may 2010 totalling €720 billion from the eu and the international monetary fund. despite the creation of a special european union financial stability facility (efsf) for euro area countries with a budget of up to eur 440 billion, it cannot be said that all the eu's problems have been overcome. moreover, the efsf is limited in its operations at the end of 2012 and there is some uncertainty among financial investors about what will happen after that date, or after the expiry of the guarantees provided, with the debts of the euro area countries in difficulty. therefore, the amendment of article 136 tfeu and the creation of a stabilisation mechanism after 2013 is desirable for the future financial and fiscal stability of the eu. however, i would point out that this mechanism will not be self-sustaining for the budgetary rescue of the problem countries (periphery) and that a comprehensive solution to the problem (reduction of public debt, restoration of the credibility of the banking sector and structural reforms, including fiscal consolidation of the peripheral countries to increase their competitiveness) should also be considered. overall, i believe that the report presented by my colleagues elmar brok and robert gualtieri provides a precise analysis of the issue, refers to the relevant eu legislation including the opinion of the budget committee, and therefore i recommend that the amendment to article 136 tfeu as proposed be approved.
in writing. the granting of candidate status to montenegro was primarily a political decision. if this issue had not been considered in relation to albania at the same time, montenegro would probably still have waited for him. but this comparison is, of course, a positive one for her. however, many of the objections to montenegro have been passed from one annual report to another, culminating in the ec's statement: politicization of the state administration, independence of the judiciary, organised crime and the environment are already among the 'evergreens'. nor is there any major shift in the fight against pervasive corruption on the horizon. let's not underestimate that. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the accession negotiations are still ongoing and that the accession negotiations are still ongoing. the eu adopted this approach to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in 2005. the difference is that to overcome the obstacle faced by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia requires the agreement of two states. while montenegro has its fate in its own hands. i suppose all this was made clear in the recent interview of herman van rompuy, jos barros and jerzy buzek with the new and youngest prime minister in the world, igor lukšić of montenegro. because no one likes to be fooled for too long. this is true even for a country that, although not in the eu, has used the euro as its national currency for many years.
- the collection and provision of data on the socioeconomic situation of roma (mainly education, health, housing and employment) is a prerequisite for the development of any meaningful roma inclusion strategy. member states and international organisations (mop and oecd) should therefore focus on these issues in more detail, helping to set specific targets for, for example, the percentage of the roma community completing secondary and higher education, employed in public administration or represented in various areas of social and political life. it is then up to the european commission to draw up a clear and workable eu roma inclusion strategy on the basis of this data. consideration is being given to whether a performance premium for the eu roma strategy should be created under cohesion policy. in any case, more effective methodologies for monitoring the use of eu funds specifically targeted at marginalised groups need to be developed. the subsidy opportunities provided by the progress programme, the lifelong learning programme, the culture programme (2007-2013) and the public health programme (2008-2013) should also be better used to promote roma inclusion. in this context, the commission should provide the ep with a list of projects in favour of roma which it has funded since 2000 and indicate the results achieved by the projects.
in writing. − any european roma inclusion strategy must first be based on knowledge of local conditions. it is therefore not conceivable without close cooperation with local authorities and communities, where the declaration must be transformed in the daily coexistence of the majority society with the roma community. the report does not omit this element, which is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. european industry is still dealing with the consequences of the economic crisis and needs a coordinated approach at eu level to deal with them successfully. an eu industrial strategy should be developed, identifying strategic areas for investment and reflecting these priorities in future financial perspectives, annual budgets and eu policies. the development of european industry requires ambitious funding, particularly in the fields of research and energy, telecommunications and transport infrastructure (tens), i.e. public services that create a business environment. however, i do not think that it is necessary or appropriate to introduce the issuing of eu bonds (eurobonds or project bonds) for this purpose. the eu is not a sovereign political entity and its revenues should, in principle, be made up of contributions from the member states. not to mention that the idea of eurobonds invites borrowing and that could run counter to the principle of the european budget being balanced. financial support for innovation, infrastructure and reindustrialisation should be based in particular on increased funding for the 8th framework programme for research and development and the competitiveness and innovation programme, with the aim of ensuring that european industry maintains its global competitiveness and thus also makes effective use of the private investment made.
in writing. industry generates about one third of the eu's gdp, three quarters of exports are industrial goods and it employs 57 million european citizens in total. european industry was already undergoing a restructuring process before the crisis. it is currently affected mainly by the rapid development and changes in the global economy and by increasing competition. a new form of globalisation is developing towards a global society based on knowledge, research and innovation. the need to mitigate climate change and conserve biodiversity to the greatest extent possible is driving industry to produce with zero co2 emissions and to use resources efficiently. european industry should continue to maintain its strategic position in key sectors and exploit the opportunities of sustainable recovery to ensure the maximum possible employment for skilled workers. to make this possible, the rapporteur proposes a number of measures. i agree and support the creation of an innovation chain, the increase of resource efficiency, the more efficient use of public procurement, especially for smes, the further expansion of clean energy production and the overall integration of smes into the european industrial concept. the report is a benefit to european industry, the rapporteur really understands the issues involved, and i therefore support the adoption of this report by my vote.
in writing. the industrial policy report for the globalisation era is an important document in the crisis affecting the european economy, primarily industrial production. but it doesn't address the root cause of these huge economic problems. it is the global capitalism of free competition and the unbridled neoliberalism on which the european union is unfortunately built. the european union does not need more strategic documents, which are literally being thrown out by the european commission, but it urgently needs a change in its substance, first and foremost a social and peaceful union with a regulated financial sector. and when we talk about the 'strategic' document as such, as practice shows, it is not so much a problem to produce it as to subsequently develop it into individual areas and to monitor and evaluate flexibly the effects of the proposed measures. for example, the area of intellectual property rights, including industrial property rights, is evidence of this.
mr. chairman, in light of what is happening in the arab world, libya, egypt, tunisia and elsewhere, the rigidity and immobility of the iranian regime stands out even more. it's a regime that's intolerant, it's a regime that's fundamentalist, a regime that murders political opponents, and it needs to be held under international pressure. we need to support the iranian opposition in exile, which is legal, we have a european parliament resolution for that. the situation in the ashraf refugee camp in iraq, where more than 3 000 iranian refugees from exiled opposition organisations are living and where a humanitarian catastrophe is threatening, must be closely monitored and protected. i would therefore like to hear from baroness ashton a clear position on this matter, i would like to hear a clear statement on how the european union, under her leadership, will help these refugees in camp ashraf.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the state of play of the middle east peace process.
baroness ashton, we thank you very much because you have had a very demanding day. you have worked very hard in this chamber today, so thank you for being with us and for giving us such excellent and detailed answers. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the - question to the commission on the crisis caused by volcanic ash, tabled by marian-jean merinescu and mathieu grosch, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) (o-0198/2010 - b7-0015/2011) - question to the commission on the crisis caused by volcanic ash, tabled by saïd el khadraoui, on behalf of the s&d group (o-000052/2011 - b7-0204/2011) - question to the commission on the crisis caused by volcanic ash, tabled by gesine meissner, on behalf of the alde group (o-000049/2011 - b7-0202/2011) - question to the commission on the crisis caused by volcanic ash, tabled by zīle roberts, on behalf of the ecr group (o-000051/2011 - b7-0203/2011)
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. freedom and pluralism of the media are certainly one of the pillars of a democratic rule of law. the hungarian media law certainly deserved criticism, but not the irritation and hasty and unjustified attacks on the hungarian government timed especially for the beginning of the hungarian presidency of the european union that we have witnessed. i am all the more pleased that the hungarian parliament has just approved amendments to the controversial media law in points proposed by the european union, thus taking the wind out of the sails for ideological provocateurs. the key requirement that 'news balance' does not apply to internet sites, blogs and debates, or to foreign correspondents, has thus been met. the european commission should now monitor the application of the law on an ongoing basis. the constructive dialogue between hungary and the eu, which resulted in the approved legislative changes, should be appreciated. foreign media and journalists operating in the country are no longer faced with high fines for breaching the hungarian media law, only 'other legal consequences'. however, fines remain in place for hungarian media owners, including those who 'formally moved their headquarters to another eu country to avoid the hungarian media law'. this arrangement, although we may disagree with it, is the full competence of the hungarian parliament and eu officials should respect it.
in writing. − the procedure which has been imposed by the situation should be conducted with great sensitivity and correctness. on the basis of a thorough analysis of the situation, further appropriate measures could then be taken, including the possibility of direct solutions and support in the social and other areas. the aim should be to find a solution that has a clear and well-founded long-term perspective, contributes to the preservation of the sovereignty of this country and is duly tolerant of its traditions. the proposed and much discussed no-fly zone is one of the steps that is declared to protect the civilian population first and foremost. in this context, i regard the first clear confirmation of the mandate as having the widest possible international base, and in particular the conditionality of the mandate of the un security council. the draft resolutions being prepared should not be influenced by the mere sight of the amount of raw materials resources in this country.
in writing. the introduction of a stabilisation mechanism for euro-paying countries is the first use of the possibility of a simplified amendment to the lisbon treaty. this is a change that non-euro countries should also support, as the stability of the euro is undoubtedly in their vital interest too. however, i believe that this mechanism should not be abused and i am therefore pleased that it has been possible to ensure that this mechanism is activated only in cases where it is really necessary. this is an important signal towards the responsibility of both states and creditors, as no 'transfer union' is created in which budgetary irresponsible states manage at the expense of the creditworthiness of countries with consolidated public finances. on the other hand, i am not concerned that the proposed amendment would create the conditions for the introduction of a stability mechanism entirely outside the union's remit. in any event, the interpretation and application of the relevant provisions of the treaty of lisbon will be subject to the control of the european court of justice. the willingness or unwillingness of states to involve other union institutions in the mechanism must be respected, and the possible intergovernmental nature of the mechanism certainly does not have to be at the expense of its quality or democratic legitimacy. if the financial stability mechanism is linked to national budgets, its intergovernmental nature would be perfectly understandable and logical.
in writing. the report contains a proposal for a european stability mechanism, which is an integral part of the overall package of measures designed to create a new framework while improving budgetary discipline and coordination of economic and financial policies of the member states, which should include support for a common european response to growth challenges, while at the same time leading to the elimination of economic and social inequalities and improving competitiveness. i think it is very appropriate to call on the commission to also look at other mechanisms to ensure financial stability and economic growth in the euro area. i think it is entirely appropriate to call on the commission to submit legislative proposals which would include a stability mechanism and measures to reduce risks to financial, economic and social stability in the european union, including effective regulation of financial markets. it is entirely appropriate to review the stability and growth pact. the report also supports the introduction of instruments to reduce macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area and measures to promote environmental recovery. it is not only for the above reasons that i have decided to support the report.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i regret to say that it seems that this european council could bring on some dangerous changes, and we should be concerned about this. under the banner of so-called economic coordination, economic governance, stability for the euro area, we see a favouring of eu-wide tax harmonisation and eu-wide fiscal unification. parliament, unfortunately, has been playing a very active role in that. let me speak clearly. the commission’s proposal of a common consolidated corporate tax base is a risky step that will undermine healthy tax competition amongst member states, prove harmful to the economy and drive business away from those who impose the policy. this has all gone too far and must be stopped. what we have also seen in the last few days is an attempt by some member states to interfere in the fiscal and tax sovereignty of others. you know what i am referring to: the very disgraceful bullying of ireland. we must not let this happen again. turning to libya, developments in libya have reminded us once again that we should not expect too much from the so-called eu common foreign and security policy. national leaders, not eu leaders, have shown international leadership. prime minister cameron and president sarkozy have made and pushed through decisions – not the eu representatives. i think that it shows clearly that there are limits to integration in this field – but not only in this field. no member state should feel obliged to do more than it feels is right. this is as valid for foreign policy as it is for economic policy. europe must stay flexible wherever possible and not be driven by rigid integrationist dogma any more, and it is time for a change in the eu integration paradigm. that is clear. that is understandable, and i hope that the european council will deal with that.
i have received one motion for resolution1 tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 24 march 2011). written statements (rule 149)
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i join all those who have already expressed their sympathy to the people of japan who have been hit by the devastating earthquake and tsunami. the natural disaster has taken thousands of lives, which is a huge loss. tens of thousands more lost their homes, their belongings, their possessions, dramatically changing their lives for years to come. even though the media is focusing on nuclear power issues, let's not forget that. the problems with the damaged fukushima plant almost overshadow everything else. but i would like to remind you - in the context of the alarming scenarios - that the greatest nuclear disaster is still the atomic bombing of hiroshima and nagasaki. the greatest threat to mankind is the nuclear military arsenal. it spreads despite many good intentions without being under such permanent and careful public scrutiny as nuclear power. in addition, following the events in japan, safety requirements and standards will certainly be improved. let us therefore maintain a reasonable attitude without reacting rashly or hysterically to the events in japan. there is no alternative to nuclear power, which provides us with the much-needed, affordable, carbon-free energy. i am glad to see that the czech republic, finland, france and others are also taking a realistic approach to the issue. unlike countries where, with the situation in japan, nuclear energy is unethical, it is a card in the election campaign.
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on establishment of a joint eu resettlement programme by rui tavares, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-000042/2011 – b7-0205/2011),– the oral question to the council on establishment of a joint eu resettlement programme for refugees by nadja hirsch, sophia in 't veld, sonia alfano, nathalie griesbeck, on behalf of the alde group (o-000045/2011 – b7-0206/2011),– the oral question to the council on establishment of a joint eu resettlement programme by manfred weber, simon busuttil, georgios papanikolaou, on behalf of the ppe group (o-000054/2011 – b7-0208/2011).
mr president, let me first of all thank and commend the work of andreas schwab for his brilliant handling of 1600 amendments and for his achievement of a sensible compromise form of report. i am pleased that it has managed to preserve the two basic principles of the commission's original proposal, namely the principle of 'better regulation' by simplifying and updating the rules in order to remove the obstacles in the internal market that businesses face on a daily basis when trading in the countries of the european union, and the second principle, which is to achieve the maximum possible harmonisation of consumer law and to remove the many exceptions applied by individual states. although we have not been able to reach agreement on full harmonisation in all chapters of the directive, this new regulation will represent a very significant step forward in removing barriers to cross-border trade and ultimately in increasing competition in the internal market.
mr. chairman, in the old days, the motto was "our customer, our master", lifetime warranties were no exception and quality was a matter of honour. clearly, the times are different today. today we must think about consumer rights, consumer protection and the legislation to ensure it. customer satisfaction no longer seems to be the best business policy, and too many examples from everyday life suggest otherwise. this is why it is so important to discuss this legislation in depth, which must not lead to a deterioration in consumer rights and must respond to new challenges. it is necessary to bear in mind the different starting positions of consumer rights in the different member states of the european union. our aim should be to improve consumer protection where there is still a legal jungle and uncertainty that attracts various dishonest practices and threatens confidence in the internal market. on the other hand, we must maintain a high level of consumer protection where it effectively exists. this is the fundamental point of view from which i view the consumer rights directive and i therefore fully support the position of my group. and of course, thank you to all the reporters for the tremendous work they've done. consumer protection is not really against the interests of honest traders. it's the opposite.
mr. chairman, i want to thank my colleague schwab for his excellent work and for supporting my proposals. the fact that consumers are now entitled to receive, under certain conditions, goods and services ordered via the internet in each member state is a major change in online commerce. a third of retailers refuse to deliver goods across borders, especially to the new member states. i hope that the council will also accept our compromise text, including my proposals, on the obligation to indicate the interoperability of computer equipment and electronics, the legibility of contract terms, the rights of consumers in organised sales tours or the possibility for member states to extend consumer rights, including guarantees, to non-profit organisations and small traders. the meaning of this directive is clear. a european consumer with clear rights is the best catalyst for fair internal trade in the european union.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on consumer rights harmonises in one legal document a total of four directives on off-premises contracts, on unfair terms in consumer contracts, on consumer protection in distance contracts and on certain aspects of the sale of consumer goods and guarantees. the aim of merging these four directives is to make the internal market more efficient and to promote crossborder trade. a high level of consumer protection improves the quality of products, increases consumer confidence and thus promotes the efficiency of the internal market. the attempt to set a guarantee period strictly at two years should be rejected, since such a provision would mean a weakening of consumer protection in many states, since member states would have to reduce the guarantee period in their national legislation, thus weakening the position of the consumer. the aim of enhancing consumer confidence in cross-border shopping is a valid one, where consumers feel that language problems, lack of trust in the payment system and reluctance of businesses to trade across borders are the biggest obstacles. the rapporteur of the economic and monetary committee is quite right in her criticism that the draft directive does not take account of new products arising from changing product developments and innovations, such as digital products. in the entertainment and consumer electronics sectors, products that include software and other intangible services are becoming more common.
in writing. for years, canada has been in the throes of a battle between conservationists and investors, who, unfortunately, have become less concerned about conservation as global prices and demand for oil rise. the multinational oil companies see environmental protection only as a cost item to be reduced. their ruthlessness will not stop even before the actual genocide of the local population, which is vitally dependent on the surrounding environment. the alarming increase in cancer among the local population is a direct result of reckless mining. we used to value everything in money. we only see short-term returns in the worldwide version of the board game monopoly, which we call economics. we don't consider what we're ultimately paying for further deforestation of the temperate belt and poisoning of entire ecosystems in a much longer and more serious game of survival. under current economic and political conditions, resources will simply be extracted and the expected environmental damage will be done. the yields are too attractive, the energy demand is too great. who decides then? citizens and their democratically elected representatives or capital and the management of oil companies? if europe does not take a firm stand on the issue of unsustainable tar sands and oil shale extraction, then we are playing political theatre to show that we care about the problem, but in reality we have no will or power to change the situation.
madam president, the 2012 budget of the european union must continue the tradition of balanced budgets. on the contrary, we must not continue the disputes we saw when the 2011 budget was approved. we must not allow a budgetary interim to develop. this would have a very negative impact on the economy of the european union. to avoid disputes and to get the budget approved early, it is necessary to draft a budget that is reasonable, which in today's economic crisis means a budget that is frugal. the public in the member states expects the european union to be well and sparingly managed in a time of spending cuts. if we don't remember this, we'll lose credibility.
in writing. in her report on the general guidelines for the 2012 budget, mrs balzani identified five key eu budgetary priorities. i fully share its view that it is the europe 2020 strategy that should help europe to overcome the global economic crisis and emerge strengthened through the creation of new jobs on the basis of the priorities mentioned, i.e. promoting employment, improving the conditions for innovation, research and development and their public funding, meeting climate change and energy objectives, raising education levels and promoting social inclusion and, above all, reducing poverty in europe. but if we are to succeed and really implement this strategy, we must allocate sufficient funds without major compromises and cuts. the current multiannual financial framework already offers very little room for manoeuvre and i therefore agree with the rapporteur that further attempts to restrict or reduce budgetary appropriations related to the implementation of the key priorities are not appropriate at present. i support the rapporteur's idea that meeting the key priorities can act as a catalyst for increased investment, growth and job creation across the union. i agree with the overall guidelines proposed and recommend that this report be approved.
in writing. − an eu-canada air transport agreement would normally have my full support, as i am a strong supporter of removing barriers to free movement both within the eu and between the eu and third countries. however, in a situation where canada still applies a unilateral visa requirement to citizens of the czech republic, i see this agreement as an inappropriate eu concession to a country that does not deserve it. the eu should have the courage to link the two issues - the visa requirement and the international agreement - because this may be one of the few ways to put effective pressure on canada on the visa issue. it is striking that canada allows eu airlines to operate direct flights to canada from anywhere in the eu on the one hand, and prevents citizens of one member state from travelling freely to canada on the other. it is generally considered that the eu-canada relationship has gradually developed into a strategic partnership and the agreement concluded confirms and reinforces the strategic nature of the partnership. however, as long as canada unilaterally applies the visa requirement to czech citizens, this partnership will have a very bitter aftertaste.
in writing. i consider the air transport agreement with canada to be a fundamental trade instrument that brings benefits to both parties, but in view of the discrimination against czech citizens and the opinion of the members of the chamber of deputies of the czech republic, i abstain. the foreign affairs committee of the chamber of deputies of the czech republic has suspended the negotiations on the approval of the ratification of the treaty until the commission has made progress in negotiations with canada on the abolition of the unilaterally introduced visa requirement for czech citizens. for almost two years, the eu has maintained a dual citizenship situation, whereby czech citizens cannot travel freely to canada like others, while canadians can travel freely to the czech republic. the czech republic cannot introduce reciprocity with regard to the eu's common visa policy, which the commissioner does not seek to ensure.
in writing. the benefit of the approved directive is that it creates a uniform procedure for processing applications by third-country nationals for authorisation to reside and work in a member state and provides third-country workers legally resident in the european union with a common set of minimum rights. unfortunately, the horizontal and framework nature of the directive is undermined by exceptions to its scope and by derogations concerning the rights of certain specific groups of the population. the principle of equal treatment for all third-country workers legally employed in the union in relation to community nationals is thus called into question. this equality should reflect the recognition of the contribution of migrant workers to the eu economy through their work and also through the payment of taxes and social contributions. its concomitant effect would be to reduce unfair competition, to make it more difficult to engage in illegal employment and to prevent workers from third countries from falling victim to exploitation and social exclusion. contrary to the commission's proposal, it is therefore necessary to ensure that no specific group, and in particular not a group of temporary staff, is excluded from the scope of the directive. directives must specify the conditions of entry into the union and, where appropriate, specific rights, but must not create an obstacle to the enjoyment by all legal migrant workers of fair and equal treatment, but should, on the contrary, ensure and guarantee such treatment.
in writing. the adopted report removes the fragmented nature of existing consumer protection rules, which in turn discourages consumers and businesses from engaging in cross-border trade. in particular, consumers often complain that they cannot fully benefit from the single market, especially when trading online. i consider that an agreed set of common definitions, such as the concept of consumer, trader or distance contract, is the right answer to these complaints. it is also beneficial to establish a list of the basic information that the trader must provide before concluding all types of consumer contracts and to harmonise the withdrawal period to 14 days for distance or off-premises contracts, including the creation of a uniform withdrawal form. unfortunately, in the case of this report, we have seen that the left did not support the compromise agreed by the rapporteur at the last minute, and that is why a forceful vote had to take place. i do not see this as a disaster, but rather as a demonstration of the fact that the ep is a political body in which there is an open and genuine ideological clash between the european right and the left. it would be useful if the ep could profile itself in this way more often.
i welcome this report from the european parliament on its own initiative and i believe that member states must introduce the legislation necessary to stop violence against women. domestic violence is a very serious form of violence against women. domestic violence is a problem that is not a private family matter. the ecr group is committed to supporting families and especially children. and that's where the problem of domestic violence comes in. domestic violence has disastrous consequences for all family members, especially for children. children who repeatedly witness domestic violence often accept violence as a normal norm of behavior. they are likely to commit these acts themselves in school or later in life. violence against women, in my view, reflects and reinforces inequalities between men and women and therefore often shapes the position of women in society. it is common for women who are subjected to domestic violence to become economically dependent and subjected to psychological pressure from the perpetrator. there is a need to give due attention to domestic violence in order to detect it and help its victims, women and children. there is therefore a need to raise awareness of the occurrence of such violence. there is a need for a community-wide discussion of the phenomenon and for prevention campaigns, as women are often reluctant to share their traumatic experiences with the public for fear of their own safety and that of their children. in this context, i also support the introduction of a european protection order, which could, among other things, help victims of domestic violence at european level if it has a solid legal basis.
mr. chairman, whenever we see examples of women and children being mutilated in the media, we wonder how it is possible that the community didn't know about it for so long. it is therefore necessary that the commission's agreed strategy to combat domestic violence includes specific diagnostic mechanisms binding on healthcare facilities, but also on social workers, which will allow for really timely assistance to these victims. violence motivated by religious rituals must be punished with high rates, which, together with education, including training of judges, will lead to a society with zero tolerance for violence against women, including female organ mutilation. the strategy should also consider free legal services and social assistance for victims of violence. i want to thank mrs svensson for her very detailed report, but i will vote against the part of recital j because it invokes the right of women to abort, and i do not agree with that.
in writing. in the past few months, this report is the third contribution to the fight against violence against women, after the european protection order and the directive on combating trafficking in human beings. violence against women is undoubtedly a serious problem throughout society. the report's figures speak of one in four women who have experienced physical violence as adults and more than ten percent of women who have been victims of sexual violence. these are alarming numbers, but they hide the true destinies of life. at the same time, only 1 in 10 victims of violent behavior seek professional help. the main reason is that most of them have no idea how to handle their situation. violence against women not only has immeasurably devastating effects on their personal lives, but also has negative consequences for those around them, especially children. i support proposals to improve awareness and education of people who may be exposed to this form of violence in the course of their work. at the same time, better care and assistance for victims must also be ensured. i welcome the report also because it needs to send a clear and strong signal to society that violence is not tolerated.
in writing. the migration report addresses how to prevent migration flows. the rapporteur believes that migration needs to be prevented by investing in the countries from which migration flows will originate. but in times of economic and financial crisis, the eu cannot massively 'finance' the third world at the expense of the european citizens' standard of living. there were, are and will be large economic differences between the eu and africa. if these differences were erased and third world citizens no longer had a reason to migrate to the eu, let us believe that we were helping to decline the standard of eu countries. let us not be under the illusion that migration is only a consequence of violations of basic human rights. a large percentage of migrants are heading to the eu simply for a 'better' life. sociological research shows that the higher the percentage of migrants in the eu, the greater the dissatisfaction of local citizens with their way of life. if the number of migrants exceeds a certain percentage, they lose their interest in being part of european society and instead create their own society within the eu. the eu should focus on human rights violations only in its migration policy. financial and economic differences between the countries of migration and the eu cannot be a reason for financial injections into these countries. migration prevention policy needs to be linked to migration prevention policy at the eu's external borders.
the european council's main theme was the economy, the stability of the euro area. you know very well that in the ecr group there are most meps from countries outside the euro area and even most meps from countries that have not even joined the euro pact. but that does not mean that we wish the eurozone to fail. on the contrary, we want a stable and prosperous european union, including the eurozone. we want responsible national governments that stop borrowing, that change the structure of public spending, that embark on fiscal reforms, and therefore take steps that lead to the restoration of financial discipline we believe is the right thing to do. what we do not think is right and what bothers us is the hidden agenda that is being pushed here by some member states, partly by the commission and some groups in this parliament. it's an attempt to use this crisis to further shift the balance of power. it is an effort to further fiscal and tax harmonisation. it is an attempt to take the next step towards creating a fiscal union and therefore the next step towards creating a full political union. we say no to such a union, we do not support such a union. i have been sitting here since 2004 and whenever there is a difficulty, i hear the same phrase: 'we need more europe, we need more community methods' and i say no, we don't need it. it is the attempt to solve everything at the level of the european union that has led us to the problems we are solving how? again, at the level of the european union. so please understand at last that the current model of european integration has run out. stop living in the 50 year old idea of post-war european integration of the last century, the european paradigm has changed and the sooner some of you come to terms with it, the better for you.
madam president, what happened at the european council meeting on 24 and 25 march 2011 and the content of the text that was adopted is a story of pushing fiscal union through the back door. the creation of the single currency, the euro, and the period of its existence is a history of ignorance of economic laws, of breaking the rules, of lying about the size of public deficits, and of cheating in national statistics. the stability and growth pact was adopted as a last chance break against the notorious black passengers and has been violated by all for years. why do we think that with the different characteristics of national economies, different rates of inflation, different rates of unemployment, that the europlus pact will be different? i consider the proposal to harmonise the corporate tax base particularly inappropriate.
in writing. − i agree that a comprehensive, long-term eu strategy for fragile states is needed to address the root causes of migration flows. however, i do not share the view that the council should present a burden-sharing action plan based on the principle of solidarity as set out in article 80 tfeu. resettlement of refugees from the region should be the responsibility of the countries to which they are going and, if the influx becomes unbearable, the response should be to tighten eu asylum and immigration policies. the challenges to the creation of a common eu asylum system and a common eu resettlement programme are, in this context, of concern to me. the creation of a comprehensive commission approach to legal migration is a good idea, but it should not be followed by considerations of taking into account the labour needs of the european labour market and the capacity of each member state to receive and integrate migrants. the management of migration flows should remain primarily the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. the report on the effectiveness of eu funding in the field of decommissioning of nuclear power plants in the new member states provides a summary of eu funding for the decommissioning and dismantling of the ignalina nuclear power plants in lithuania, bohunice in slovakia and kozloduy in bulgaria. lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria undertook, in the context of eu accession negotiations, to close and subsequently decommission the designated nuclear power plants which, according to the g7 negotiations, could not be modernised within acceptable financial costs and where minimum safety standards could not be ensured. the eu has committed to finance these closures and decommissioning and is implementing the financial framework. i welcome the eu's support for such activities. the decommissioning of old and unsafe nuclear power plants in europe is essential for the sustainable life and health of european citizens. i hope that the oldest nuclear power plants in france will be shut down and decommissioned in the same way. germany took similar action immediately after the accident in japan. i shall vote in favour of the report, as the process of closure and decommissioning of the ignalina, bohunice and kozloduy nuclear power plants needs to be completed with the corresponding financial contribution from the eu.
in writing. it is an achievement of the ep that the 2011 budget for the first time shows payment appropriations of eur 47 608 950 under the egf budget line. the egf was created as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines and therefore deserves its own allocation, thus avoiding the transfer from other budget lines that has occurred in the past and could hinder the achievement of different policy objectives. i believe that the egf has proved its worth, i only regret that it is not yet being used more by the new member states. in the end, it may appear that the egf is intended to bring to the old eu member states resources from the eu budget that they were used to, for example, in the context of cohesion policy. i believe that the first ever czech application for an egf grant is the famous first water-skiing, which will be followed by others, because czech industry has also been affected by globalisation and the global financial crisis, and czech redundant workers deserve european help in their efforts to find a job in the labour market.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 as a flexible instrument to provide rapid, one-off, time-limited individual support to help workers made redundant as a result of globalisation or the financial and economic crisis. this is the first time that the fund has been used for the czech republic since the outbreak of the global economic and financial crisis, to alleviate the consequences of the dismissal of 634 employees of unilever, which closed its factory in nelahozeves. given that 52.4% of the redundancies are women and more than 13% of the redundancies are over 54 years old, i consider the approval of the release of appropriations for the czech republic to be very correct and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i recommend that we vote in favour of the report by mrs barbara mater on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), under which the first ever application for support from the czech republic has been submitted. i think it is important to stress the importance of this fund, whose cradle was laid by the czech social democrat commissioner, vladimir špidla. the financial and subsequent economic earthquake left many people out of work across europe. the egf shall finance only those measures which help people who have been made redundant, enrolled in vocational training programmes and acquired skills relevant to the labour market or who have become self-employed to find a new place on the labour market. according to the report of mrs mater, i can summarise that unilever has met all the criteria mentioned. unilever čr was forced to close its production plant in nelahozevsko under the impact of the economic crisis and the layoffs affected most of its employees. unilever offered a comprehensive job search support programme to all those leaving and worked closely with the local employment office to run the programme. i can therefore agree to the release of the funds as set out in this report and to the commission's proposal to pay the czech republic an amount of eur 323 820 from the egf reserve.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the release of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of the czech republic, specifically for former unilever employees, and i am glad that the report has been adopted. i regret that the british conservatives voted against and that the czech chairman of the ecr group was unable to change their decision, even though this is the first time the czech republic has used funds from this fund.
in writing. the mobilisation of the egf will support the reintegration of 460 workers affected by the closure of the unilever plant in the municipality of nelahozeves in central bohemia, czech republic. as this will be a significant help in addressing the social impact of the mass layoffs in this small community, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the control of trade in dual-use goods is an important area with security and trade aspects which would not be sufficiently effective and feasible without the associated flow of information exchange or flexible international cooperation itself. in this context, i would also like to emphasise the role of the relevant control authorities, such as customs, which bear considerable responsibility for the direct control of exports or transit of dual-use goods. i believe that assistance should also be given to these bodies, for example in terms of access to modern control technologies, the acquisition of new knowledge from the control procedures carried out or, last but not least, through support for vocational training and exchange placements. a sound implementation of the dual-use export regime, with full respect for international obligations, should always be accompanied by a sound security policy.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, it is important to combat violence against women, which takes many forms and leaves its mark on the body and soul, and in some cases leads victims to commit suicide. i am glad that we are creating a new framework for the eu to fight this unacceptable phenomenon, which is why i was happy to support the report. i could not, however, vote for certain parts of the report which support the termination of a pregnancy, which i do not agree with, because even the unborn human being has the right to life.
on behalf of the ecr group. – unlike some of my colleagues, i still believe that the european union is primarily an economic project and that the single market is the core of all that. we have heard a lot about economic governance in recent days and weeks, perhaps too much for my own taste, but very little about growth and competitiveness. as you know, mr barroso, the british conservative party forms the most substantial part of my group, and the uk prime minister, mr cameron, and eight other eu heads of state and government sent a letter to you and to president van rompuy setting out very clear ways of getting europe back into growth after the financial crisis. last week, mr cameron also published a pamphlet entitled ‘let us choose growth’, which i can only encourage all members of this house to read. so what are your particular intentions in the foreseeable future to deliver on growth, on competitiveness and on completion of the single market of the european union? what practical measures do you intend to adopt in order to attain these goals?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr barroso, i do not want to jump into some kind of controversial debate and i believe in your good intentions. however, you know the institution you are running. the european commission is sometimes a bit of a difficult animal to run. so could you please tell us also how you would guarantee that the european commission, under your presidency, would avoid the tendency – that sometimes is all too visible – of over-regulating rather than deregulating or better regulating?
madam president, i welcome this report, which seeks greater transparency in the fight against corruption and which deserves our support. as early as last autumn, at the presentation of the european court of auditors, we discussed the responsibility of the member states for the overall control of the disbursement of european union funds. i think it is right that each member state protects the financial interests of the european union by ensuring that there are reliable checks at national level to detect irregularities and fraud. in this context, cooperation between member states and the commission in providing complete and reliable information is also necessary. mandatory reporting declarations at national level shall be duly checked by the national audit authority. the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests is certainly a suitable and complementary instrument. however, the czech republic, which is mentioned in this report, has not yet ratified the convention, as it is necessary to introduce criminal liability for legal persons. the legal order of the czech republic is traditionally based on the criminal liability of natural persons only. but the matter is now being discussed in the czech parliament.
i have already supported the report presented in the committee on budgetary control, but i would like to draw attention to a number of important findings in the report. i would like to stress first of all the appeal contained in the report to the states which have not yet ratified the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, which, apart from malta and estonia, has also not been ratified by the czech republic. unfortunately, the current czech government is doing nothing to increase the fight against fraud and corruption. on the contrary, i would like to appreciate that the report states that the czech republic, together with estonia, latvia and slovenia, had a zero fraud rate when drawing on the sapard pre-accession fund. i find it alarming that the court found that more than 30% of the errors identified by the court in the 2009 sample could have been detected and corrected by the member states before the expenditure had been confirmed to the commission, on the basis of the information available to the member states. i would like to join the call for olaf to include in its next annual report, in line with the request made in last year's report on the protection of the community's financial interests, a detailed analysis of the strategies and measures put in place by each member state to combat fraud and prevent and detect irregularities in the use of european funds, including cases where they are caused by corruption.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his 12 measures for the single market act and for having been inspired by the maria monti report, but i want to mention one name which is important here and i am sure we will agree with all the colleagues with whom we have worked on the imco committee in the context of internal market activities, and that is the name of malcolm harbour. that's a name that's certainly one of the most important for this session today. the commissioner is not offended because he sat with us in committee when malcolm harbour came up with the initiative on the internal market, he came up with an initiative which reopened the whole debate on the internal market and all the colleagues, regardless of political faction, whether they were socialists, greens, liberals, ecr as such, i say, almost all supported this idea, i.e. i want to talk about the name which is malcolm harbour. i think we have to fight economic nationalism today, and one of the enemies we have in this area is time. i am putting my hopes in commissioner barnier, in the short time available, that he will translate the 12 measures into legislative action.
mr president, if we are to revive the european economy and improve competitiveness in the global environment, our vital objective must be to finally remove, after 20 years, all the obstacles which prevent, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises from developing their businesses. it is therefore necessary to complete the harmonization of technical and accounting standards, to promote electronic commerce, to link business registers, to introduce interoperability of online identification systems, to recognise qualifications, to eliminate discrimination between undertakings on the basis of their place of origin and to make the conditions for participation in public contracts more effective. the 50 points that the uniform poison act now contains are really crucial and we need to be able to put them into practice. different national legal regimes create bureaucratic obstacles for businesses, slow down investment, limit economies of scale and synergy benefits, but also affect areas already harmonised by directives but implemented differently in the member states, thus persisting obstacles to doing business in the single market. let us learn from this: is it better to adopt regulations that allow for uniform legal interpretation and uniform implementation in all countries, rather than limiting directives that allow for differences in national legislation? i very much appreciate that commissioner barnier has made the completion of the internal market his number one priority and he has our full support. thank you to all the colleagues who are participating and working towards this goal.
we now come to the catch-the-eye procedure. unfortunately i have about 18 names on my list, so not everybody will get the floor because we do not have enough time. however, i will try to divide that time fairly and evenly.
mr president, i am convinced that the key to a successful single market is information and public confidence. this, however, requires, inter alia, communication that is accessible and understandable to citizens. i would again call on the commission to really think about the way it explains its intentions to citizens. the public consultation of the single market document itself has shown what people want and where they see the greatest weaknesses in european integration. most people identified as a top priority proposal 48, which commits the commission to strengthening consultation and dialogue with civil society. the commission will then pay particular attention to taking consumer views into account in the draft legislation. i hope that the results of the public consultation will be taken into account in this case as well. i would like to thank and congratulate all the rapporteurs and wish you, commissioner, a lot of strength for your future work.
the debate is closed. vote: 6 april 2011. the vote on the commission statement on public procurement will take place at the next part-session. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. i welcome the ep's decision today to release funds from the eu solidarity fund for the central european countries affected by last year's floods. in the case of the czech republic, this is the amount of czk 125 million to compensate for part of the damage caused by the floods in northern moravia in may and june last year. since the total damage was estimated at czk 5 billion, representing less than 0.6% of czech gdp, the disaster was not considered by european legislation to be a 'serious natural disaster' for which assistance from the solidarity fund is virtually a matter of course. in the case of the czech republic, it was necessary to request an exemption on the grounds that our territory was affected by the same natural disaster as neighbouring poland, where its consequences were much more devastating. in the original draft resolution of the european parliament, only poland was referred to as an affected country, and it was only after i pointed out that other countries had also been affected by the floods that its scope was extended to the whole of the central european region. i am pleased that the czech government, after initial laxity and hesitation, has been able to submit an application for financial assistance from the solidarity fund within the deadline, which will no doubt come in handy now.
in writing. − unlike the european globalisation adjustment fund, i consider the solidarity fund, which is intended to use funds to cover damage caused by natural disasters, to be a true expression of european solidarity. i very much appreciate that this report proposes to allocate funds to cover flood damage to public property also in the czech republic. specifically, northern moravia, which was hit by the same flood wave last may, which then caused damage throughout the central european region. i appreciate the fact that the czech republic received funds from the solidarity fund to cover the damage, but i appreciate even more that the surrounding countries were hit by this flood wave more than the territory of the czech republic. nevertheless, in the context of european solidarity, the czech republic was not left out of the compensation. i would also like to thank my colleagues březin and tošenovski, with whom we successfully worked to include the czech republic in the group of countries compensated by the solidarity fund as a result of this flood wave. a special thanks goes to mr buzek, president of the european parliament, for visiting the affected moravian territories with us and personally supporting the czech republic.
in writing. i was very pleased to vote in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania. all these states were hit by severe flooding last year due to torrential rains, which caused landslides and significant damage to human lives, damaged residential buildings, businesses, agricultural areas, road and rail networks and other infrastructure. although the amount of the proposed aid represents only a few per cent of the overall injury assessment for most countries, it is nonetheless significant aid, amounting to eur 182 million in total. i would remind you that the eu has set up a solidarity fund to support the people of regions affected by natural disasters. i thank my colleagues for their support of this report.
in writing. − several european countries were affected by floods in 2010 to varying degrees. for example, in the czech republic, the floods were smaller in terms of territory, but their consequences were as devastating in this territory as in neighbouring poland. i therefore supported the release of funds on the basis of the option for these exceptional situations provided for in council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002. i voted in favour of the report, including the release of funds for the czech republic and croatia, which is a similar case.
in writing. i agree that the health claims to be added to the union list of authorised claims under the commission proposal include the claim that 'reception of docosahexaenoic acid (dha) contributes to normal visual development in infants up to 12 months of age'. it is generally accepted scientific evidence that not only dha in breast milk but also synthetic dha added to infant formulae and other foods intended for infants contributes to the development of infant vision. the refusal to include dha in the union list of authorised health claims could set a dangerous precedent, whereby the work of the european food safety authority (efsa) would be frustrated simply by having any health claim on any substance that has undergone the demanding and rigorous assessment process of the authority vetoed for ideologically motivated reasons.
in writing. - dear colleague, health claims checks were introduced to ensure that consumers were not misled by false claims. each of these should serve to improve consumer awareness. i therefore voted in favour of the commission's proposal to include a health claim on dha in infant formula, which would provide positive information for mothers who cannot breastfeed their babies for health reasons. the moment these women decide which skim milk to buy, they need positive product information. we do not undermine the importance of breastfeeding for the development of the child, which every mother is well informed of by her pediatrician.
in writing. i share the rapporteur's view that the commission's report on the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud has not provided much needed data on even estimated fraud rates and disparities in the eu member states in the management of eu funds. this is a very serious shortcoming, given the, without exaggeration, enormous scale of corruption in some member states, including the czech republic. when dealing with fraud and so-called irregularities at eu level, it is usually only a certain segment of corruption and fraud at the level of individual member states in general, but a very significant segment. in my view, it is urgent to consider whether the current level of work of the european anti-fraud office is sufficiently effective and whether this work should not be subject to structural changes and changes in its methods, including greater offensiveness.
in writing. − european political parties, which play an important role in shaping democracy in the eu, should be granted a common and uniform legal status. european political parties should be bodies with legal personality in order to be able to overcome the distinction between european political parties and european institutions in terms of tax procedure. as regards the creation of european parties, it is appropriate that the statute of european parties considers european, national and regional elected representatives to be equivalent, provided that regional representatives are composed of members elected to regional parliaments. in addition, each european political party should have at least one representative among the members of the european parliament. after all, this is also a condition for a european political party to be able to be funded by the european parliament.
in writing. − i support the final version of the report on governance and partnership in the single market, in particular its key priorities. i believe that a regular assessment of the situation in the internal market will improve its functioning. the improved functioning of the internal market is promised by broader, more interactive and more transparent public consultation of the legislation under preparation. if the member states are persuaded to publish comparative tables on single market legislation, there is a chance that the implementation gap of single market directives will be reduced to 0.5% for legislation not yet adopted and to 0.5% for incorrectly implemented legislation. however, a key prerequisite for success is a more active approach by the commission in enforcing the transposition of eu law than is currently the case, for example with the services directive in the internal market. this directive is one of the cornerstones of a functioning internal market. unfortunately, however, many states have implemented it too late and often incorrectly, in an attempt to apply the principles of economic nationalism, with the commission's tacit approval. when i voted on this report, i voted in favour of adopting it.
in writing. the single market for europeans report contains a number of positive proposals, such as promoting citizens' mobility or eliminating double taxation of european citizens, but it also contains a number of proposals whose implementation would lead to excessive regulation, which would ultimately hamper and stagnate the single market. personally, i do not support the proposals to create a more regulated and controlled single retail financial market, nor do i support the proposal to automatically extend the regulation on roaming regulation, as this regulatory measure was only temporary and was to lead to the alignment of roaming prices. regulation of final retail prices, as is the case with the regulation of roaming, is the last resort in the event of market failures. calling for politicians to automatically extend this regulation is more of a political populist gesture than a rationally justified move reflecting the changes in the telecommunications field that have taken place in the eu since 2007. the proposal to launch a european television competition 'european crossborder enterprise of the year' is only a waste of european funds in my view. that is why i decided to abstain in the vote on this report.
in writing. i consider the single market for business and growth report to be very balanced, and i believe that the implementation of the proposed measures can stimulate the growth of the single market and, ultimately, of the member states' economies. in particular, i agree with the key priorities of this report, such as the creation of an eu patent and a single dispute settlement system, the emphasis on the need for long-term investment in innovative sectors, the increase of business and consumer confidence in e-commerce and the revival of its development within the single market, the removal of bureaucratic obstacles for smes to operate across borders and the rationalisation of public procurement procedures. i am in favour of all the above measures and i am convinced of their usefulness and usefulness, so i voted in favour of this report.
mr. chairman, the disaster in japan has several possible implications. first, the energy sector should be under state control, and reliable backup sources should be at a sufficient distance from each power plant. tepco was being irresponsible. secondly, we should do everything we can to support the environment and say no to the green fear mongers who have been blackmailing europe for a long time. thirdly, we need a change of mood in our parliament and in the commission. there has long been a certain anti-civilization atmosphere in the european parliament, and we need a commission of courageous men and women who are not afraid of new solutions, who have a pioneering spirit, and not of alibistic figures who, like a certain beetle, roll a ball of small personal interests in front of them and in european positions.
mr. chairman, for several weeks now, we have been watching with excitement the incredible struggle in japan with the aftermath of a giant earthquake and subsequent tsunami. i admire the japanese, too, but i've never heard of them. people have learned from every disaster. such experience has always led to technical improvements and safety measures. after major air disasters, people didn't stop flying. reliability and safety have been improved. the disaster in japan is an important example of the need to build up the experience of nuclear power plants. this extreme natural stress test needs to be properly evaluated and thus to gain as much experience as possible for technical and safety measures. nuclear power plants must be prepared to withstand extreme catastrophic natural events. rescue procedures also need to be learned, as part of the operation and safety of the facility. politicians need to limit themselves to quick and easy trials. maximum re-inspection of nuclear power plants is certainly reasonable. the japanese experience is an opportunity to make a responsible assessment of existing safety standards, without unnecessary political history.
in writing. the lesson of the fukushima 1 nuclear accident is also that it is dangerous to put energy entirely in private hands. private capital maximizes profits even at the cost of neglecting safety measures. how many more "world economic crises", "gulf of mexico" or "fukushima" will it take for us to finally admit it? the irresponsibility of private financial investors has now brought the world into a financial crisis. because of the irresponsibility of the private oil companies, there are millions of tons of oil in the sea. as a result of the irresponsibility of private companies, japan will have to deal with radiation pollution of its land, sea and food chain for decades. nuclear energy should always be under national and international control. the planned stress tests shall have uniform standards, transparent and independent control bodies and a cross-border character. although there is a legal framework in europe that initiates continuous improvement of technologies, large-scale investments in research and training will be needed to guarantee the highest possible level of safety and health and environmental protection at the level of the latest scientific and technical knowledge. large investments will also be needed in the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, which are currently stored under more or less provisional conditions. the lessons of this disaster must be directed towards ensuring safety, not the elimination of the only truly sustainable, climate-neutral energy source we have available.
the latest evaluation report on the fyrom is neither worse nor better than the previous ones. but we all know that the content of these reports is not the main obstacle to opening accession negotiations. there's a dispute with greece over a name. without it, the proceedings would probably have already begun. the eu should therefore play a more prominent role in tackling it. it could be decisive. after nearly 20 years of unsuccessful search for a way out, it is entirely appropriate to have a thorough debate on what to do next. including any changes to the negotiation mechanism. the commission should make appropriate proposals, including alternative ones, to this end. by our long-term passivity, we all "sign" the uncertainty of the fate of an entire country. a country that still wants to join the eu - after all these years. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. this 'dialogue of the deaf' between the ep and the ec on the one hand and the council on the other does not add any weight to anyone's life. because it reduces the credibility of the eu as a whole. let us be clear - support for eu membership is still high in fyrom. but in the long run, it's declining. the patience of the people of fyrom, macedonians and albanians, may have its limits. being for each of them for different reasons.
madam president, i hope that there is no one from the eastern partnership countries here, because our participation might make them think that we are not interested in the eastern partnership. let me also stress the importance and the need for a discussion on the eastern partnership. the importance of this is that east of the european union's borders is a space for business, an opportunity that is irreplaceable for maintaining the union's competitiveness in the decades to come. it is also a huge source of culture that co-creates the european tradition and without which it is impossible to understand european identity. the need to discuss the eastern partnership is also due to the fact that it is not entirely clear whether we all attach the same importance to this project. all the multilateral initiatives linked to the eastern partnership, democracy, stability, economic integration, energy security and people-to-people contacts are undoubtedly beneficial both for the european union and for the six neighbouring countries. some politicians are embarrassed by statements about black sea synergy or a democratic sanitation cordon. at that point, the eastern partnership ceases to be an instrument... (the president withdrew the floor from the speaker).
in writing. i must admit, when i read the foreign affairs committee's motion for a resolution, i was not surprised. the conflation of the demonstrations in belarus, where the so-called protesters are lavishly supported from abroad, with the storm of resistance in egypt and tunisia caused by food prices and unemployment, is really beyond my comprehension. i also consider the absurd conclusion to be typical nonsense of so-called politicians. mr. siwiec apparently did not register the demonstrations in the monarchies of the arab world, which have led to dozens of deaths, or the war in libya. that's probably all right. in paragraph 12, the negative development in moldova is not noted. some of the epp colleagues have fallen so in love with yulia tymoshenko that the government of ukraine without her seems undemocratic to them, despite the fact that it has managed to significantly improve the country's economic and political situation in the last year. i consider the call in paragraph 13 to support the development of democratically oriented parties in belarus in all its aspects to be direct interference in the internal affairs of another state. it is a pity that in eu countries, such as hungary, we do not see similar efforts to develop democracy. i consider paragraph 52 of the resolution to be another one of the gross insolence as well as support for various subversive activities such as belsat or radio russia and european radio for belarus. it reminds me intimately of the cold war as i know it from the nonfiction.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr george sabin cutaş, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the draft annual report of the eib for 2009 (2010/2248/ini) (a7-0073/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by janusz wojciechowski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2000/75/ec as regards vaccination against bluetongue (com(2010)0666 – 05499/2011 – c7-0032/2011 – 2010/0326(cod)) (a7-0121/2011).
mr president, the problem with vaccination with an inactivated vaccine outside confined areas will be that the animals will show positive results on serological tests and virological tests will have to be carried out to verify whether the animals are vaccinated or actually sick, which is more costly. this will cause complications in trade and animal movements. as this is a transposition of the directive into national law, the deadline of 30 june 2011 will also be difficult to meet for procedural reasons. i also personally disagree with the change in the date of entry into force of the directive from the current 20th day to the day following publication. it should also be borne in mind that the development of correlation tables will add to the administrative burden.
in writing. - i regret that the ep did not approve today the compromise version of the resolution on nuclear safety in europe following the nuclear accident in japan. i find it a shame that the ep is unable to offer the public its views on nuclear energy. the result of this disagreement may be that the ep will be the one to pull the short end in the forthcoming european institutions' negotiations on the form of stress tests for power stations. the greens and socialists were clearly not content with their proposals to phase out nuclear energy or to close nuclear power plants built before 1980 being rejected.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolution on the case of ai weiwei in china see minutes..
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolution on the ban on the elections for the tibetan government in exile in nepal see minutes..
mr tannock, you used only one and a half minutes. next time i will give you an extra half minute!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolution on zimbabwe see minutes..
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 16.30)
, in writing. the report on forest protection addresses the issue of deforestation. the european forestry sector is in a challenging and risky situation, with further losses due to climate change to be expected. several member states (e.g. germany, austria) have a balanced forestry policy. however, a large number of countries - especially the new member states, including the czech republic - allow unsustainable forestry on their territory, which can be defined as the absolute clearing and plundering of forest cover. the ratio of logging to forest growth is even more than 100%. if the politicians in these countries are so incapable or corrupt that they cannot or will not stop this trend, it is imperative that deforestation and forest clearance be managed and regulated at european level. the czech authorities have not provided any evidence that the forestry sector is a viable business. there is no question of conservation or sustainable forest management. it is also quite common for some citizens to cut down forest growth without a permit, because the cost of topical is worth the expense. i have to appeal to the authorities who are not punishing or even addressing this, because deforestation has become a common practice in the czech republic. i welcome the news. it is a further step towards sustainable forestry in europe and stopping deforestation in some member states.
madam president, this debate covers a very broad area, since it concerns the discharge of a number of european institutions, each with its own specificities. it is therefore very difficult to summarize all these issues in one article. the cooperation between the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control, of which i am a member, is at a high level and has resulted in some recommendations on how the european parliament should vote in the discharge. however, there are continuing shortcomings in the evaluation of individual institutions, in particular european agencies, such as in the recruitment process, in public procurement, problems with transparency or problems with internal control. for a number of reasons, it is therefore very difficult to agree to a discharge. on the contrary, we will support reports that suggest a delay in discharge.
madam chairman, we're discussing seemingly routine matters, plus money already spent. the annual repetition of this procedure should, in particular, lead to a more careful and conscientious assessment and preparation for the future. for example, in the case of the two largest european union projects, the global navigation satellite systems and the european joint undertaking for nuclear fusion energy, iter, i find it intolerable that such important projects should be 'digging' into the shortcomings that every capable manager must be able to address. the irregularities in the involvement of smes in satellite projects, the shortcomings in recruitment and the breach of the principles of equal treatment, the iter's difficulties in complying with budgetary principles, auditing and granting rules, are just some of the errors identified. but one of the major causes of the problems is undoubtedly the lengthy decision-making process on the projects themselves. without clarity on priorities, including funding, in such key activities, half-hearted and uncomplicated decisions will continue to cause not only the problems mentioned above, but also reduce the overall quality of projects.
in writing. − i agree that the european preservation order (eopa) and the european access order (eoda) should be separate remedies, complementing the remedies available under national law, and should apply only in cross-border cases. the issuing of an eopa should be entirely at the discretion of the national court. moreover, the burden of proof should be on the applicant, who should provide appropriate evidence of the 'fumus boni juris' and 'periculum in mora' of the case. those criteria should be assessed by national courts on the basis of the existing case law of the european court of justice. the effect of an eopa order shall be limited to the freezing of bank accounts and the temporary freezing of bank deposits and should not confer on the creditor any form of ownership rights over the debtor's property. further consideration should be given to whether the order may cover other types of property such as immovable property or future property (short-term debt or inheritance).
in writing. − i am personally in favour of the european preservation order and the european asset recovery order being part of the eu legal order. this is particularly the case in view of the legislative developments in recent years, which have seen institutions such as the european enforcement order, the small claims procedure and the european payment order being introduced into the union legal order, as these institutions cannot be fully implemented without the institution of the european preservation order and the european access order. although i support the call for the commission to submit a legislative proposal from both institutions, this does not automatically mean that i support the commission's proposal. in assessing the proposal, i shall mainly focus on its specific form, with an emphasis on the exclusive use of cross-border cases, the jurisdiction for the use of these institutes as well as the limited use of these institutes only for cases of strict necessity.
in writing. the adoption of the approved regulation is necessary because the current system, which is composed of a significant number of overlapping and sometimes even contradictory bilateral investment treaties concluded by member states, needs to be replaced within a reasonable time by a new system of modern investment treaties to be concluded by the eu and which are consistent with the general objectives of its policy. a regulation is therefore the logical and only possible response to the entrenchment of foreign direct investment policy as an exclusive competence of the eu, which is part of the eu's common trade policy. its important task is to ensure a high level of legal certainty during the transitional period. i therefore wholeheartedly support the commission's proposal, which envisages the coexistence of contracts. it is necessary that, on the basis of the approval procedure, existing investment treaties of the member states can be maintained in force and that member states can negotiate amendments to them under clear conditions, complete ongoing negotiations and open negotiations on new treaties.
in writing. − as a member of the ep delegation to the eu-armenia, eu-azerbaijan and eu-georgia parliamentary cooperation committees, i welcome the decision to provide macro-financial assistance of eur 46 million to georgia to support the stabilisation of the georgian economy and cover the balance of payments needs set out in the current imf programme. i consider it appropriate that eur 23 million of this amount be provided in the form of grants and eur 23 million in the form of loans. it is important that the relevant measures to be taken by georgia to prevent and combat fraud, corruption and other irregularities in connection with this assistance are set out in the memorandum of understanding, the credit agreement and the grant agreement to be negotiated with the georgian authorities. in order to ensure greater transparency in the management and disbursement of funds, the memorandum of understanding, the loan agreement and the grant agreement should also provide for the possibility of controls, including on-the-spot checks and inspections, by the commission, including the european anti-fraud office. in addition, the possibility of audits, including on-the-spot audits where appropriate, by the court of auditors should be envisaged.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 may 2011. written statements (rule 149)
, in writing. i welcome the commission's and parliament's joint transparency strategy, at least in this form. however, this should be only one of a number of necessary steps towards a more transparent legislative process involving all three european institutions. the will of the european parliament to have a serious debate on lobbying and its rules is evident. it also sets an example for those member states which have not yet done so. i believe that the transparency register will also contribute to the credibility of the political environment. however, its actual impact will depend in particular on the willingness of all actors to respect stricter rules.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on nuclear safety 25 years after the chernobyl disaster by bogusław sonik, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000109/2011 – b7-0312/2011).
mr president, i think that in connection with the 25th anniversary of the chernobyl disaster, a message of thanks should be sent to two countries that the european parliament does not like very much. first, belarus, which was affected as much as ukraine by the consequences of this disaster and which is patiently and without any violent gestures financing the compensation for the consequences of this disaster. a lot has been done and not much attention has been paid by the european union institutions. secondly, to the government and people of the republic of cuba, which has taken in a large number of children from families affected by the chernobyl disaster for treatment. they were given the best possible treatment and the best possible care at a time when the cuban republic was doing very badly economically.
mr president, it has been one week since the very complex proposal for labelling textile products, as proposed by our committee on the internal market and consumer protection, was voted on by a large majority in the first reading. i very much appreciate the work of rapporteur toine mander and others who negotiated with the council until the last minute a compromise at second reading which would allow for the faster introduction of new fibres into european production and the improvement of product safety. i must, however, express my regret that the council is so obstinately opposed to the introduction of country of origin labelling and the harmonisation of size labelling. i am very disappointed in the council's approach to denying consumers the right to know where a substantial part of a product was made before they buy it. it's not like it's a secret. this will enhance the promotion of the quality of european brands and rightly make citizens proud of what europeans can still produce in the face of competition from cheap labour. even dangerous products, which are still very common despite improved controls, are easier to avoid if shoppers know where the goods were produced. this is not protectionism at all. i am glad that at least the commission is prepared to present an impact assessment by september 2013 which will focus on harmonised product treatment, size labelling, information on hazardous substances, allergens, flammability, etc. in addition to the country of origin. the council, which has been more protective of the interests of traders importing textiles from third countries than of european producers and consumers, is now in the stars. but it is also up to us to convince ourselves, not just here in brussels, but our governments at home, if we are to achieve these goals. in closing, i would like to thank once again toine manders and all the others and the commissioner for today's result.
mr president, the exponential growth in the volume of waste generated and consumed in europe seems to be a ticking time bomb, both in the european union and in developing countries, where large quantities of hazardous waste are being illegally exported. commissioner, i welcome your statement that the commission is determined to close the loopholes in the legislation in the relatively near future. but together with the speaker before me, i think there is a lack of will on the part of the member states to invest in controls and to introduce sufficiently high sanctions for breaches of existing rules. as a member of the acp presidency, i believe that there should also be a need to develop a common strategy with the acp countries to combat the illegal import of toxic waste into their territories and, in particular, action plans to establish a safe waste management system in african countries, including the promotion of recycling technologies.
mrs. ashton, ladies and gentlemen, for the security and stability of europe, the developments in north africa and the middle east are extremely important. the arab and muslim peoples are experiencing a process of political democratic emancipation, which can be called the "prague arab spring". young people from tunisia to egypt to yemen to syria to bahrain are demanding more freedoms, more democracy, more human rights. it is not only in the political and security interests of the european union but above all in our moral duty to assist our arab friends in their efforts for emancipation in every way, because the values for which they are fighting are also our values and the successful implementation and application of these values is also a basic prerequisite for lasting peace, stability, development and prosperity. but all-round aid should not mean our interference, because i believe that the building of civil society, democracy and the rule of law must remain arab and muslim property. only then can these nations and societies become a long-term part of the global... (the president cut off the speaker)
, in writing. the draft resolution makes it clear that the implementation of the relevant provisions of the treaty of lisbon still faces serious shortcomings. it is not a good sign for the member states when the ep 'urgently requests' the european council to draw up a 'european foreign policy strategy' or when it calls on the european council to approach this task on the basis of a political dialogue with the ep. if there were a european foreign policy strategy today, the eu's record would be much better in this respect, for example with regard to the shifts in the arab world and the double or even triple standard applied to countries in the region. another problem is the eu's attitude to the increasingly turbulent developments in the balkans. the eu has not yet found the 'right key' for this region, or a system approach is lacking. the result is, among other things, a free fall in the eu's prestige and the attractiveness of eu membership in the western balkan countries. the reflections of the high representative of the international community and the european union special envoy for bosnia and herzegovina, valentin inzko, on the course of action towards the republic of serbia do not address this situation, but rather the opposite.
, in writing. the common foreign and security policy remains a major issue within the eu. on the one hand, the great powers have traditionally relied on their own strength, and france and britain in particular still feel like great powers. this is also reflected in their approach to foreign policy issues. the latter, especially in recent times, has focused more on military solutions to any disputes, and has neglected peaceful solutions to disputes in favor of intervention. i believe that the world today is moving towards multipolarity and that a peaceful foreign policy is in line with international law and the un charter. the world today needs, instead of military adventures, the latest of which is unfolding in libya, to put all its efforts into fighting poverty, illiteracy and other serious problems. to this end, arms control and disarmament, including a general agreement on the elimination of nuclear weapons, are absolutely essential. disaster relief should be an important component of eu foreign policy. however, these operations should not be linked to the deployment of the military. police deployment is only possible as a last resort under a un resolution, to protect workers in the social, health and public welfare sectors and to train police. the cfsp must be strictly separated from nato. for these reasons, the gue/ngl refuses to support this report.
in writing. i supported the report because it is a step towards better consumer protection with an emphasis on the quality of textile products. it is, however, regrettable that the requirement to indicate the country of origin has not been enforced, which is one of the elements of information that complement consumer choice and can help to reduce the occurrence of various inaccurate and misleading claims of origin. the absence of harmonised rules in this area also deprives european producers of the benefits of eu production. i trust that the commission will continue to seek an acceptable solution to this matter.
in writing. the digital agenda targets of broadband coverage for all european citizens by 2013 and high-speed coverage of 30 mbps or more (up to 100 mbps for half of european households) by 2020 should be considered as minimal and ambition should be to achieve the best capacity and the highest broadband speeds in the world in europe. in this context, the provision of wireless broadband is essential to ensure that all citizens have access to new and innovative services. i fully agree with the deadline proposed by the commission for making the 800 mhz band available for electronic communications services by 1 january 2013. any exemptions or derogations should be granted only on technical grounds, but must take into account specific public security and defence needs. the other zones should be liberated by 1 january 2012 as set out in the commission proposal. i believe that we should strive to allocate more frequencies to mobile services, with a minimum target of 1 200 mhz. it is necessary to establish appropriate principles to allow for the release of additional spectrum bands in the future. i also think it is appropriate to address other issues of concern, including in particular the cost of liberalising the belt.
in writing. the proposed amendment to the rules of procedure responds to the corruption revelations in recent months, when 3 meps responded positively to a corruption bid by investigative journalists. it is unacceptable that members should not be subject to public scrutiny as to whose interests they are defending in their capacity, or what pressure they are subject to or who is putting pressure on them. i therefore very much welcome the introduction of a common register of lobbyists and lobbying organisations. the european commission has already established this register in the past, and therefore the european parliament will only extend its scope to members, officials and other staff of the ep. the register will contain information on contacts between the above-mentioned persons and the lobbyists and will be publicly accessible. a similar system already exists in the us congress, and experience there has shown that it is an appropriate anti-corruption measure. i firmly believe that the extension of the register will be the right inspiration for the czech parliament as well. its introduction in czech conditions would certainly contribute to the cultivation of czech politics.
in writing. i am concerned that more than a year after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, there are still no clear signs of a comprehensive eu approach to foreign and security policy, one that would overcome the traditional procedural and institutional obstacles to eu accessibility. i regret the reluctance of the eu member states to define a common position on the crisis in libya, on un security council resolution 1973 and on the ways of implementing it. i consider it dangerous to consider the creation of ad hoc coalitions of countries as possible substitutes for a common security and defence policy, because in the 21st century no european state has a real chance of being a major player in the field of security and defence. in this context, i would like to recall that the treaty of lisbon provides for the possibility of entrusting the implementation of crisis management operations to a group of member states, but only within the framework of a council decision defining the objectives, scope and conditions of their implementation. a common response to developments in libya is essential to create a new credible approach to the neighbourhood policy with the southern countries. the same emphasis should be placed on the development and deepening of the eastern partnership, which has recently been joined by a parliamentary assembly of meps and members of the participating states. in this context, we should maintain a firm and principled stance against the regime of president lukashenko of belarus.
mr president, today we are here for the second time to discuss the innovation strategy in plenary. in many of our discussions on the position of european countries on world markets, we regularly draw attention to the need to increase the competitiveness of the european economy. the position of the european union on world markets will continue to have a major impact on the success of innovation and the speed of innovation cycles. european countries are certainly at a high level in research projects. but what's a long-term problem is the slow implementation of this knowledge in practice with complicated bureaucracy. the eu's science and research fund is one of the largest. our aim must therefore be to simplify the administrative transfer of research results as much as possible, thereby helping innovation and thus strengthening the european union's competitiveness. we need to think about how to deal with the commercialisation of research results in the context of innovation steps. if we make it difficult for european research to be commercially viable, we will have a hard time speeding up innovation cycles.
mr president, europe and innovation. my colleague migalski and my colleague toschenovsky talked a little bit about this. where are we, anyway? the united states is ahead, japan is ahead, brazil, india and china are catching up. i see the innovation union program as the one that comes in at minute twelve. most likely, we have a last chance to get involved in innovation and not let these countries catch up with us. any failure of europe as a continent will have fatal consequences in this area - and all the other colleagues have said this - for europe's competitiveness, for the quality of life of its citizens and, ultimately, for the values that europe represents for the world. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has managed to launch concrete legislative measures such as enhanced cooperation on the introduction of the european patent. i also see the area of standardisation as very important in the implementation of innovation and its application by smes.
, in writing. according to the ecdc, 400 000 patients in europe are suffering from infections with multidrug-resistant strains of bacteria. i therefore welcome the resolution of the committee on agriculture and rural development in which i support in particular the requirement for the proper collection and analysis of comparable data on the sale of veterinary medicinal products and the subsequent use of these products in animals. the collection of these data should be mandatory for all eu member states. if the european union adopts strict measures on the use of antibiotics in farm animals, legislation in third countries can also be expected to change, mainly because of the economic losses that would be the limitation of meat exports to europe. for example, in the us, 74% of all antibiotics used are applied in the livestock sector to prevent disease or promote the growth of healthy animals. half of all meat products tested in u.s. stores contain dangerous bacteria (mrsa). this problem has been known in the us since 2008 and has not been solved in a major way. non-pathogenic multiresistant strains of bacteria are also at risk due to the possibility of transgenic transmission and, according to recent research, also the sharing of resistance. the emergence of new multidrug-resistant strains of bacteria may deprive the next generation of the ability to use antibiotics effectively. such a scenario would have catastrophic consequences for the health of the population. antibiotic resistance is a very serious problem that needs to be addressed immediately and effectively.
the draftsman of the committee on regional development. - mr president, the position of the cultural and creative industries is part of the european innovation strategy and the eu 2020 strategy and is closely linked to measures aimed at making more effective use of heritage sites, museum and gallery collections or urban and landscape features in tourism and related activities. the main opportunity in this respect is provided by the digitisation of historical and cultural content. digitalisation should increase the access of the general public to materials necessary for study, learning and education and for the strengthening of cultural identity. investment in these areas has a near-certain return, not only in tourism, which is certainly a significant part of many regional economies, but also in foreign policy. it is worthwhile to raise awareness of the deep cultural traditions of european countries and at the same time promote individual towns, cities, regions, member states and the european union itself in a global context. in the new programming period after 2013, we should therefore continue to finance cultural projects from the european structural funds, strengthen the twinning programme for cooperation between local authorities and maintain the autonomy of the community programme for projects in this field called culture.
mr president, the report on early learning is not, and cannot be, an attempt to formulate a uniform approach to this highly individual matter. however, i see it as an important contribution to the discussion on common european objectives and values in early childhood education. research in this area highlights the important role that early childhood care plays in the healthy development of the child and in the child's further involvement in society. it is shown that early childhood education has a positive impact on children's further education and that investment in early education in the broadest sense is much more effective than any later intervention. it is therefore in our interest to promote this type of education, also with a view to achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, namely to increase the number of people with a high-quality higher education education and at the same time to reduce the rate of under-education. quality early childhood education can bring us much closer to these goals. more than we're willing to admit, perhaps.
, in writing. this own-initiative report addresses the issue of student mobility of young people, which is based on the strategy 2020. it is certainly right to strengthen the competitiveness of the younger generation by creating conditions within higher education for the completion of at least one year in another member state. mobility, the credit system and other measures will prevent the rising unemployment rate among the young generation, which now stands at an alarming eu average of 21%. i personally strongly support the call on the commission and the member states to introduce into legislation measures to recognise voluntary work by the unemployed as time worked. this measure will lead to the consolidation of work habits, increase competitiveness and increase motivation to seek work, especially among the younger generation. i consider it equally important to link labour market requirements to vocational training on a permanent basis, and to be very flexible in this respect, in order to ensure that future graduates have the best possible access to the labour market and to reduce gradually unemployment among the younger generation.
in writing. the early years of children deserve great attention and careful approach from the outside world. it is important to keep in mind that this is a unique and unrepeatable period of development during which an individual's personality is formed. it should be pursued with more intensity and should never be underestimated or neglected in time. adults should be role models to help children develop different types of skills and abilities. it's a period of personality development where the learning process is, so to speak, nonviolent, natural, and the world around you is perceived, accepted and absorbed to the fullest extent possible. although a number of factors, both genetic and environmental, enter and contribute to a child's development, the influence of parents and the immediate environment is the most important factor in shaping a child's personality. i would also like to remind and stress that adequate and well-rounded physical activity targeted at this age group should not be overlooked in this context, as it could help the individual's development and contribute to better health in the long term.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i welcome the single market act and in particular the legislative measures that allow small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to benefit from all the benefits of the single market, such as the european rules on venture capital funds, the revised vat rules and the simplification of the accounting directives. at the same time, i believe that dialogue between smes and contracting authorities should be strengthened in order to facilitate the participation of smes in procurement procedures. in this context, i would consider it appropriate to explore possibilities to help smes form partnerships and consortia and participate together in public procurement. the commission should carry out an impact assessment and consider increasing the ceilings for eu public procurement, which would allow smes to participate in contracts that would otherwise be subject to specific requirements and therefore not be able to participate. i also invite the commission to consider how the publication of all public procurement notices in europe could be improved and the administrative burden that prevents european companies from participating in cross-border public procurement contracts removed. the member states are then tasked with applying the european code of good practice to facilitate access to public procurement by smes more systematically.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the innovation union because, among other things, i believe that action needs to be taken at european and national level to improve the entrepreneurial skills and training of europeans by integrating entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation into all areas of education. the commission's programmes such as 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' need to be used more, while ensuring that craft trades are protected as sources of innovation. i believe that the commission should work more closely with the member states to develop medium and long-term forecasts of the skills required by the labour market and to promote partnerships between universities and the business sector in order to facilitate the integration of young people into the labour market and to help create an innovative knowledge-based society, develop applied research and improve the prospects of graduates on the labour market. in this context, i support the committee of the regions' proposal to create a 'virtual creative network' open to all (business, local and regional authorities, private sector and citizens) providing advice, support and access to risk capital and technical services. i also draw attention to the current lack of better and proactive interaction between universities and businesses and call on the commission to launch a new europe-wide programme for the training and education of university managers and technology officials.
in writing. the report on unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative sectors is closely linked in many respects to the innovation union report. i would like to draw particular attention to the importance attached to the education of citizens, including a better understanding of the issue and respect for the protection of intellectual property rights. this widely neglected area of not only education but also education needs to be strongly supported and developed both at eu level and in the member states. i have reservations about the common labelling of cultural works as goods and services. this is misleading and can be seen as an expression of economic neoliberalism in the cultural sphere. for example, a literary work, but also a work of art or music, is first and foremost an essential expression of the creator's talent and social reflection. to view them as merely goods or services is not only uncivilized but also wrong.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on sri lankasee minutes..
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on azerbaijansee minutes..
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on belarus see minutes..
the author. - mr president, in evaluating, we must not forget that just as we seek to assess the situation in our own countries objectively, our partners or neighbours deserve exactly the same approach. as a doctor, i want to remind you that violence is violence, no matter where it happens. it's against our shared values. we should seek to ensure that those currently in prison are provided with adequate health and dignity treatment, wherever they are in the world. the newly established euronest assembly should serve as an instrument for exchange and cooperation. in the case of belarus, the measures taken make it impossible to fulfil this objective in full. the overall outcome of the decision is a breach of the prague declaration and a slowdown in the possible positive changes in mutual cooperation. our efforts are directed towards creating a united europe, which young people in particular deserve, including in belarus. therefore, we should reconsider our position on whether restrictions are the right tool to be seen by civil society in belarus as genuine friends. in the context of the 25th anniversary of the chernobyl disaster, i would like to ask you to try to look at belarus as a country that has suffered so much, through a different lens. this disaster has affected the belarusian people first and foremost, and i consider the fact that belarusians are prevented from participating in official religious ceremonies to be an insult to this nation. one more note to my colleague tannock. i know it's hard to speak english fast. i like english as the language of shakespeare. next time, try speaking quickly in the language of johann von goethe, perhaps we'll understand you better. i say it as a czech.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
i adjourn the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.40 p.m.)
i welcome the proposal that research supported by the 7th framework programme should address eu problems in the areas set out in the chapter cooperation fp7. this includes, in particular, healthcare, including clinical and preventive research and medical technology. cancer is the second most common cause of death in europe. with an aging population, it is expected that by the age of 75, one in three men and one in four women will have had direct experience of the disease. cancer research is on the verge of breakthrough discoveries, especially in the area of more accurate, cheaper, and even patient-friendly methods of both prevention and treatment. cancer research funds can save lives and treatment costs. i appreciate the political will that has been shown to justify the funds that have already been allocated to cancer research under this programme. in the current economic situation in the eu, these resources must not be reduced, but we must go further. i'm saying that if we can work together to accomplish ambitious projects like tearing down national borders or building space stations, we should find a way to make cancer a disease that no one fears anymore. to do this, we need to support and coordinate research into both treatments and prevention. the fight against cancer is a european issue that should be our priority, starting with fp7 funds and ending with the european umbrella agency.
commissioner, i am in fact supporting certain reservations of my colleagues from the inta committee and the question is whether to deal with this in the framework of this agreement or, as my colleague mr rübig says, in other agreements. but i want to draw attention to a serious problem here, and that is the ratification of this agreement. for example, the ratification of the transport agreement has already been blocked in the czech parliament. the reason is the ongoing disagreement with canada on the abolition of the visa requirement for czech citizens. this is a very serious problem and unless the commission is able to deal with it properly, there is a risk that ratification of this agreement will be blocked. please take this seriously.
mr president, i am presenting a report on the external dimension of the european union and corporate social responsibility. i have drawn up this report with a very critical eye, because there is a very high degree of hypocrisy in dealing with countries outside the european union. if we want to require them to respect what we respect within the european union, then we must first of all behave in the same way. it is unacceptable that, while demanding respect for the basic conventions of the international labour organisation, some member states should be found to be in breach of those conventions. the report also states... (the president cut off the speaker)
the rapporteur. mr president, as i said in my speech a moment ago, the external dimension of social policy includes the european union's activities and initiatives aimed at promoting labour and social standards in third countries. although the lisbon strategy and the eu2020 initiative place much more emphasis on social policy than ever before, competitiveness and economic considerations remain at the forefront of the agenda. that's why i wrote the report very critically. if we want the third countries with which we conclude agreements to respect what is the principle and what is the very structure of the european social model, then we must respect that model within the european union. if we want the countries with which we conclude international agreements to respect the fundamental conventions of the international labour organisation, then we must respect them ourselves. and that there are violations of the ilo conventions in some member countries is easy to see. as for corporate social responsibility: corporate social responsibility is undoubtedly a good idea, and it started to be talked about sometime in the early 1970s. the problem is that corporate social responsibility cannot be enforced. when we discussed the comments and amendments to this report, we also heard the opinion that a directive should be drawn up because some companies simply do not behave in a socially responsible manner. more than 150 amendments have been tabled to this report, but i think it has retained its critical tone. the european union must give more support to the international labour organisation, because it is absurd that, while we are expressing support for it, fewer and fewer countries are ratifying and respecting the conventions. in fact, during the last parliamentary term, the commission put forward proposals such as the working time directive, which was in direct contradiction with the international labour organisation's convention no 1 on working time, adopted in 1919, which established a 48-hour working day. i am very pleased that parliament has rejected the directive. so much for my explanatory statement. it is useless for me to speak any longer, because this is a matter that everyone understands. i would like to see respect for social rights and respect for what we proclaim as the great achievement of the european union come first.
commissioner, a voluntary contracting institution, even if it brings legal problems in its implementation, is a way of eliminating the different contract law that contributes to the high 60% of cross-border consumer order failures. unfortunately, there are many other pitfalls for entrepreneurs. not only contract law but also consumer law is not fully harmonised. there are significant differences in tax regimes and accounting standards. payment is often burdened by extra bank charges and cross-border use of digital content is often blocked by licensing reasons. in addition, in 10 countries, consumers cannot obtain half of the 100 tested products on the domestic market, while in 13 countries, consumers found prices in cross-border offers at least 10% lower than in their own country. i therefore support the publication of standardised voluntary contracts translated into all languages, which will be legally binding, but i call on the commission to tackle other pressing issues more actively, so as to eliminate the fragmentation of the internal market.
cooperation in the field of vocational training at european level is also essential for the functioning of the single european internal market. quality vocational education and training must respond to the needs of the labour market and create the conditions for worker mobility. highly qualified and educated people are a competitive advantage for the union and support for vocational training should be matched. we need to focus on close links with practice and also to allow quality training placements, including overseas, in european mobility programmes. at european level, there is a need for greater synergy between the education systems in the member states and, consequently, for the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. the report contains these aspects and as rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection i am satisfied with the final version.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, allow me to thank the rapporteur for completing a very difficult task. the 'eurovision' is one of the directives designed to allow for a gradual alignment of conditions between road and rail transport. for many years, rail transport in the european union has been disadvantaged by the fact that the user of the transport route pays for this use. in the case of the road network, payments for the use of infrastructure are for the time being rather symbolic. if we look at the matter purely from a technical point of view, apart from any other context, we find that the high-class roads, i.e. motorways, expressways, first-class roads, are best adapted for heavy-duty truck traffic. the directive does not go so far as to set maximum tolls for the lowest classes of roads, i.e. local roads, in accordance with the logic indicated above. on the contrary, it focuses only on charging for certain external costs, on the basis of the 'polluter pays' principle, only for the highest class roads, i.e. motorways, expressways, first class roads and parallel roads. the payment should limit the exceptions as much as possible and should cover the so-called external costs of road transport: noise and, above all, emissions. i am sincerely curious to see how the individual countries will justify their reluctance to introduce payments, at least according to table 1, which is a poor reflection of what the real environmentalists want. despite the contradictions between the logic and the wording of the recommendation discussed here, the gue/ngl group supports this view of the rapporteur. (the president agreed to answer the question put to him by mr leichtfried by raising his blue card, pursuant to rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i think this is just the first step towards leveling the playing field, because if i pay for infrastructure on the railway significantly... (speaker continues in german) it is the first step towards the alignment of railway conditions with road conditions. today, we pay a lot for the railway, but very little for the road. also, this is a small step towards the angleichung der bedingungen zwischen eisenbahn und straße.
mr president, in the directive under discussion, the commission has proposed the possibility of charging external costs such as air pollution, noise, congestion, based on the desire to internalize external costs according to the 'polluter pays' principle. i support this principle because i consider it important in terms of environmental and human health impacts and the use of multiple modes of transport at national, regional and local levels. this is also in the interest of municipalities, which are often affected by the negative effects, in particular transit traffic. at the same time, in view of the deepening economic crisis and the increasing financial burden on carriers, i believe that member states should be given the possibility to spread the introduction of external costs over time and by type. the new system should also allow for the replacement of an outdated fleet with lower external cost rates for investments in green vehicles.
rapporteur. − mr president, just briefly, i was very honoured to be a rapporteur when we had the chance to repeal, instead of adopting, a piece of legislation. this is a redundant piece of legislation. i think it fits perfectly with our long-term goal, which is to legislate and to regulate better, so i can only recommend all of you to support this repeal. i would like to thank you for that in advance.
in writing. - the area of the drug problem itself that we are now talking about is a contemporary and at the same time a very historical problem. the illegal drug trade goes beyond and has always been beyond the borders of one country. i believe that the establishment of high-quality international cooperation in the fight against illicit drug trafficking, not only at european level but above all at global level, could be one way of improving the effectiveness of the fight against this kind of trafficking. as a physician, i also state that drug abuse can have the most serious and irreversible consequences for human health. i therefore support effective international cooperation in the fight against illicit trafficking in drugs or their precursors, while recalling the need for prevention.
in writing. the global navigation satellite system (gnss) action plan outlines the steps that are necessary to ensure that gnss passes the critical point that will guarantee the success of the project. it is important that the plan does not get bogged down in a glut of initiatives and is not limited to consultations and is actually implemented by 2013. egnos (european geostationary navigation overlay service) has to cover the whole of the european union and should be extended to northern, eastern and south-eastern europe. in order to be fully effective for transport purposes, it must not only cover the whole union but also our nearest neighbours. in the field of civil aviation, the development and use of the egnos application for landing manoeuvres should be supported. this is a strategic prerequisite for the effective creation of a single european sky. the field of safety, environment and smoother road transport also represents a significant potential for egnos and gnss, as they can be used for toll collection.
in writing. i endorsed the report. this is a compromise based on the 'polluter pays' principle, i.e. the principle of charging for certain external costs of transport, such as environmental pollution, noise and congestion. the realisation of external transport costs is a step in the right direction.
for the ecr group. mr president, as you know, my group is made up mainly of non-euro area members, but as i have said several times here, we certainly do not want the euro to fail. our economies are too interconnected for that, and so i have to say that our feelings about what's happening are mixed. we're getting mixed signals here. the european council says one thing, the european central bank says another, the international monetary fund says another. and i think that political views still prevail over economic ones. as if it were possible to fool the markets with some promises and avoid a real solution to the situation. i want to ask, as far as the question of restructuring the national debt is concerned, what is the european commission's position? do you really still prefer to pour more and more money and give more and more endless loans to economies that are in serious trouble and on the verge of collapse, or is there already a sense of common sense here and a serious consideration of the possibility of restructuring their national debt, because in my opinion we are not going to avoid this in the long run anyway.
mr president, in the last few months we have been preparing the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020. we are like the dog and the cat in the fairy tale by the famous czech writer karel čapek. they decided to make a cake, and to make it really tasty, they put everything they liked in the pot. the result was a cake that made their stomachs ache. i fear that the same will happen with our budgetary framework. we also put a lot of ingredients in the pot and sound commitments and recommendations, but we're not at all sure that it's going to work together. we all know how badly the lisbon strategy has gone. now we have a 2020 strategy and we're trying to make a budgetary framework for it. the problem is both in the objectives set and in the instruments recommended by the report. i consider the worst of the objectives to be the fight against climate change, and i see a major problem with the instruments in terms of so-called own resources and the possibility of issuing bonds. the own resources are in fact a new european tax, and i do not want that. eurobonds are then a way of putting the european union into debt in addition to the member states, which is something i do not want. for these reasons, i cannot support the report.
in writing. the ongoing debate on the next programming period shows that this time there will be a need to focus more on a more comprehensive approach to this main economic instrument of eu policies. the global financial crisis, the acute global competitive pressures from the economic tigers of china and india show us that the mff will need to be aligned with the fundamental objectives of agenda 2020. the rapporteur's idea of merging all the policies relating to agenda 2020 into one area of the mff seems particularly bold. the rapporteur is right to propose that it should be legally binding to review the limits within each constituency at the mid-point of the programming period. the idea of aligning the duration of the mff with the political cycles of the eu institutions, thus increasing democratic control and accountability, is also of interest. in principle, the rapporteur is undoubtedly right to suggest that the eu's revenue reform should be considered. the gradual transition to the eu's own resources system, i.e. the replacement of the existing system of member states' contributions, is entirely appropriate, as it tends to compare the balance between the eu and the member states, which leads to erroneous conclusions in the general public about the meaning of membership of the european union, which is, however, a completely wrong conclusion given the current interconnectedness of economies and policies.
in writing. meps have in the past had only limited influence on the negotiations on the union's multiannual financial framework. the fundamental change brought about by the lisbon treaty concerns precisely this long-term budgetary programming, which must be re-established by the council after obtaining the consent of the european parliament. this is why the sure special committee was set up, whose report defines the political priorities of the european parliament before the start of negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework after 2013. the report by mr salvador garriga polled makes it clear that if the union is to continue to focus on meeting the ambitious targets of the europe 2020 strategy, it will be necessary to ensure adequate funding for eu policies. without sufficient new resources beyond 2013, the union will not be able to meet both the current political priorities and the new tasks and objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in view of the lack of traditional eu own resources, a technical discussion on new own resources for the eu budget was launched in the sure committee. the next financial framework is a great opportunity to show european citizens that the union is able to think and act in their long-term interests and deliver efficiently in terms of internal cohesion and solid growth. i therefore fully agree with the rapporteur's priority statement that the amounts allocated to the cap and cohesion policy in the next period must not be lower than under the current framework.
in writing. although europe continues to lag behind the us and lose the leadership it once had with emerging economies, the results of the 7th framework programme demonstrate the added value of this european programme for research and development in europe. unfortunately, there is still no method to assess how far the projects funded by the 7th framework programme have advanced scientific knowledge. it should also be noted that there is a considerable imbalance in the participation of entities from the old and new member states. the participation rate of smes in particular also remains relatively low. simplification of administrative and financial rules could improve the situation. the importance of joint technology initiatives (jti) for the competitiveness of european industry should be emphasised. at the same time, it is necessary to point out the legal and administrative obstacles (legal personality, financial rules and sometimes intellectual property) that can discourage participation by many key research actors and smes. the situation in which research funding in europe is too fragmented, with multiple sources of funding from member states and the eu using different priorities, evaluation criteria, definitions and procedures, leading inevitably to overlap, confusion and errors, needs to be changed.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted three key problems in the rating agency sector, namely the lack of effective competition, the over-reliance of the regulatory framework on external rating assessments and the lack of guarantees provided by rating agencies for their ratings. i am not sure that the rapporteur's proposed establishment of a european rating agency (era) is the appropriate solution. there is no guarantee that the era will establish a good name and become a genuine new player among rating agencies, that it will be credible, that it will be able to convince the market of its absolute independence from any public authority, be it the member states, the european commission or any other public body. the rapporteur's proposal to establish a network of european credit rating agencies seems to me more meaningful, as the cooperation of nationally active credit rating agencies, using the available human and financial resources, could increase competition in the sector by covering a wide range of assets and different markets, allowing them to reach the same level as large credit rating agencies with a global reach.
in writing. the report deals with a subject of great importance in today's world. it's a workers' rights issue. the so-called social dumping is a great danger to workers, because it undermines their rights in a fundamental way. the main actors in the application of social standards are international companies. it is therefore essential to define csr clearly and unambiguously in order to avoid current divergent interpretations and to set out minimum obligations in this area and how they will be monitored. there are many companies that come to the regions for a temporary economic advantage, mostly because of cheap labor. as a rule, businesses refuse to form long-term links in the region, i.e. to participate in the shared social responsibility of the region. the report calls for strengthening the core labour standards enshrined in the ilo conventions, including freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in employment and the abolition of child labour. it calls for changes in the global governance system and in the eu to better protect workers' rights and working conditions. the rapporteur succeeded in highlighting the clear social dimension of the report presented, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. the intention and much of the content of mr falbra's report is, in my view, very positive. i also see the focus on employment and decent working conditions as a key element of sustainable development not only in eu countries. like the rapporteur, i regret that there is no uniform definition of a 'social clause' which would be applicable not in bilateral trade agreements but in the creation of decent working conditions for employees. the social models of some european countries can also serve as a good example for developing countries. i also share the view that we should fight together to eliminate child labor. despite the above, i abstained from the vote because social requirements cannot be implemented in bilateral trade agreements in the absence of a clear definition of respect for human rights. this criterion cannot be used as an argument against the conclusion of agreements.
in writing. − there is no doubt that education is a complex, long-term process, the quality of which, and in particular the results, ultimately influence the future employment of young people. it should not be neglected as such. in this context, i would like to point out that the development of new modern technologies, the setting of higher quality or safety standards, the demands on professional competence in a wide range of fields and activities, and thus the requirements for more targeted training of young people, are increasing. but i am talking about quality education based on a concept with modern teaching elements, education that is attractive in a certain way and that shows the need for the given field of education with a view to further opportunities for upgrading qualifications. the result of the training process should be a professionally prepared young person who has a vision of prospective growth and, above all, who uses his acquired knowledge, skills and abilities in the field of activity for which he has been preparing and has acquired the qualification he controls and for which he is available.
in writing. the impact assessment process contributes significantly to reducing the bureaucratic burden that is a by-product of legal regulation. a special impact assessment board has been established at commission level for some time, assessing both ex ante and ex post impacts. the commission also conducts public consultations on its legislative intentions. the european parliament has yet to have a working group to assess the impact. i therefore appreciate the fact that the report calls for the creation of an infrastructure to enable impact assessments of proposals and intentions formulated on parliament's premises. i would also like to call on the commission to focus more on transparency of the whole evaluation process when carrying out impact assessments, to strive more for its independence, to not focus its proposals on one solution to a problem but to independently assess multiple solutions to a specific situation. i would also like to call for the simplification of the public consultation process, the extension of the deadlines for submitting specific proposals, including the possibility of submitting proposals in all the official languages of the union.
in writing. the impact assessment tool proposed by the rapporteur is a good tool for improving the quality of legislation at european level. however, in our mutual assessment we should not only consider the financial impact, but we must also focus on other aspects such as economic, environmental, social aspects. as a doctor, i emphasize those that have an impact on people's health. we must also not forget the very important link in the impact assessment with the member states, which have to incorporate the proposed legislation into their legal systems.
in writing. i do not support the proposal to create an entirely new legal instrument, which should be european contract law. the creation of this instrument is the first step towards the creation of a pan-european civil code, which should gradually replace the contract law of the individual member states. although the proposed concept refers to the voluntary application of this instrument, there are many indications that this voluntary application is only a kind of prelude to the subsequent mandatory application in cross-border commitments. if this instrument is created, we will introduce a completely new type of transnational law, which will be at the borderline between eu law and international private and commercial law. not to mention that the potential mandate to create a european contract law for consumers and businesses lacks sufficient support in eu primary law. therefore, we should stick to the standard instrument for which there is sufficient legal support in primary law, and that is harmonisation.
in writing. − i fully support the autonomous european global satellite navigation system and agree to take all necessary measures to ensure its full operational capacity. this is the view of all the groups in the european parliament, as shown by the fact that no amendments were tabled to the report. in the report by mr remek, we call on the european commission to address the problems that have arisen and to ensure that the funding of the programme is carried out in such a way that full operational capacity can be achieved in 2018. the launch cannot be delayed in order to preserve the eu's competitive advantage, or other countries like china, india and japan will overtake us.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the statement by the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the eu-russia summit.
for the group gue/ngl mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i'm looking in vain for an answer to the question of why we are debating the resolution for the summit with russia on the eve and voting on it on the day of the summit in nizhny novgorod. moreover, as recently as the beginning of last week, this subject was not on the agenda of the plenary. it all sounds inconceivable, and from my perspective, it's a formality today. moreover, instead of pursuing a principled approach to a new treaty on relations with russia, which we consider an important partner, we are notoriously repeating proclamations and demands that clearly have no hope of resolution. we should focus on the issues that are moving forward. the progress in the agreements on the easing of the visa regime and, eventually, the possible abolition of the reciprocal visa regime with russia is an example. instead, we criticize russia's position on the eu's vegetable imports, for example. but what does our own actions look like from outside the union? in the search for the source of the deadly bacteria, we blame each other without indisputable evidence, restrict imports and exports of commodities, demand compensation. how much trust we inspire, and not just in russia, is for everyone to answer.
commissioner, as you know, russia is a confident state and russians are a confident people. the european union's relationship with russia must take the form of a genuine partnership, not just a sham partnership. if we have excellent relations with the eastern partnership countries, then the relations between the european union and russia must be at least on the same level. i am therefore very pleased that you did not forget to mention in your speech the importance of the abolition of visa relations with russia, because the relationship between the partners must be based on trust and honesty. we should tell russia clearly and in a binding manner what the timetable is for visa waivers and what the conditions are for them to be met. commissioner, thank you for not neglecting any of the agendas that are important for the european union's partnership with russia in the preparation of the eu-russia joint summit.
austria voted against the nuclear power plant in zwentendorf to get rid of the regional chancellor. it has created a model of a nuclear power plant, one-to-one, unique in europe. i think it's an expensive experiment and that the austrians can't force anyone in europe to go down that road.
madam speaker, parliament has received over 400 petitions, and i have also received a number of complaints from businesses, non-profits, schools, charities, even government agencies that have been victims of catalogue fraud. the updated data show that they are subscribing to high financial commitments. the activity of fraudulent directory companies is intentionally directed across borders or from third countries. we need a clear europe-wide solution and despite all the efforts of the european parliament, the european commission, which has the legislative initiative, has been inactive for years. as shadow rapporteur, i proposed a number of solutions in the report to parliament. it would be sufficient for the commission to propose that those practices be included in the so-called blacklist of prohibited misleading advertising in the relevant directive. we need not only a robust european legislative solution, we need it quickly. i call on the commission to use the accelerated legislative procedure. the commission's reprehensible laxity in this case has cost many honest citizens a considerable sum of money. i think europol should also start investigating.
madam president, the unfair practices of some so-called catalogue companies remain a serious problem. their activity is always based primarily on circumvention of the law and very poor enforcement. the commission has also found that the aid granted to the beneficiaries was compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. however, fraudsters rely mainly on the lower level of legal knowledge of the responsible institutions and, in many cases, unfortunately, on their lack of willingness, courage and a certain comfort. a formalist interpretation of the law allows you to not intervene, not punish these cases, and wash your hands of it. paradoxically, this leads to protecting the interests of the fraudsters instead of the victims. the question put to the commission correctly asks how the member states approach this matter. how did they apply the directive on misleading and comparative advertising? without an active and not just formal role for the state, this problem is truly insoluble and petitions from deceived victims will increase. yet, we are not helpless in this matter.
madam president, commissioner, the move away from nuclear energy, as we can see in germany, for example, is a politically incorrect decision with potentially disastrous economic consequences not only for germany itself but also, and least of all, for the central european area. i am not criticizing the german decision, but i would like to point out that each member state of the european union has the right to determine its own energy policy with all its economic, social and political implications. i insist, however, that my country, the czech republic, has the same right to determine independently how it will produce electricity. one third of the czech energy mix is energy obtained from reliable nuclear sources. i believe that we will further strengthen our nuclear resources, that we will complete additional nuclear power units while complying with all the essential safety and control parameters and requirements. (the president agreed to the question by raising the blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
first of all, colleague, i want to emphasize at this point that i have no contact with this lobby. secondly, i have not seen in any statement by the czech government that the czech nuclear power stations should be allowed to escape any control, as was suggested by commissioner oettinger.
madam chairman, just three brief remarks on the commissioner's speech. first, by adopting the stress test methodology proposed by the association of western european national regulators. they assume a probabilistic approach, from which the commissioner deviates towards an absolutist approach. secondly, i would say that for this whole approach to citizen safety to be credible, stress tests should be installed in all areas where energy is produced. most people died in the power plants where the dams broke. in 1976, for example, 26,000 people died when a dam dam burst in china. and the third note. the commissioner seems to be taking part in a green pilgrimage, but polish satirist jerzy lec says that even attending a pilgrimage does not relieve you of sweating feet and the smell.
in writing. the more than 400 petitions that have reached the ep so far highlight the widespread deceptive business practices of some 'catalogue companies' which persuade businesses, but also non-profit organisations, to register for free, only to find that they have signed a contract that also involves a fee. however, directory companies are often established in a member state other than that in which their victims are established, making it difficult for victims to seek protection or compensation from national authorities. unfortunately, directive 2006/114 on misleading and comparative advertising, which applies to business-to-business transactions, does not provide for a sufficiently effective remedy or is not properly enforced by the member states. since the commission is obliged to ensure that this directive is properly applied by the member states, it should assess the situation and, where appropriate, take appropriate corrective measures. it is primarily its task and responsibility to put an end to the deceptive commercial practices practised by 'catalogue companies'. at the very least, a blacklist of these companies' deceptive practices could help.
in writing. the motion for a resolution tabled on the question for an oral answer (b7-0315/2011) on misleading directory companies is brief, but it touches on two areas that require constant attention. the first area is the support of smes by the eu institutions and bodies, in the context of their protection against deceptive commercial practices, the second area is the protection of competition by preventing the widespread unfair competition, which includes misleading and comparative advertising. the commission's anticipated efforts are welcome, as this resolution calls on it not only to review and improve directive 2006/114/ec on misleading and comparative advertising, but also to implement corrective measures aimed at countering inconsistent enforcement of this directive by eu member states.
the first item is the discussion on madagascar. see the note.
lord dartmouth, to a large extent i agree with your view, but we also get indications from our interpreters that they cannot keep up with the pace. of course when i interrupt the speaker i always give him the additional time, so everybody is happy – the speaker is happy, you are happy that you get the interpretation, and of course our interpreters are happy as well. that is the purpose of the work we are doing here. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolution on guantánamo: imminent death penalty decision see minutes..
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolution on ukraine: the cases of yulia tymoshenko and other members of the former government see minutes..
the author. - mr. chairman, there are moments when i can't help but wonder. one of those moments for me was the opportunity to read the draft resolution on ukraine. i had no idea until this moment that ministers and prime ministers of some countries are endowed with special immunity for life. it is undeniably remarkable that the european parliament, on the one hand, demands a consistent action against corruption and, on the other, at the very moment when a member of the former government, mr danilišin, is accused, he is granted political asylum, even in my own czech republic. and that's without any prior investigation of the case. by the way, mr. danilišin was never a member of any political party, so his accusation is purely economic. we demand that there be strict punishment for corrupt acts both inside and outside the european union. that's absolutely correct, but let's read the constitution of the country concerned and try to find out the facts. and when the corruption in the european countries is really eliminated, let's try to return to the imperial councils granted to the various countries in us, unfortunately, adopted resolutions. the gue/ngl group agrees with the general parts of the resolution, but has serious doubts on the specific points mentioned and will therefore not support the resolution.
mr. president, the methods used to investigate alleged violations of the law by ms. tymoshenko and other opposition politicians completely discredit the ukrainian judiciary, police and the current government. such persecution practices were in the arsenal of totalitarian communist regimes in the last century. and those union citizens who have lived in them are particularly sensitive to this. we believe this is yet another abuse of public power to discredit political opponents. but that is completely unacceptable in a democratic society. i note that this fundamentally calls into question the independence of the ukrainian judiciary in front of the eyes of the whole world. in these circumstances, i call on eu states, like the czech republic, to be prepared to grant political asylum to persecuted ukrainian opposition politicians and to consider sanctions against ukraine for violations of international law if the situation in ukraine does not change.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr president, i listened carefully to mr verhofstadt, the chairman of the liberal group, and i wanted to ask him if i was right in thinking that his slogan might be that greece is everywhere, that greece is not a single member state of the european union, but in fact it is a state of mind, and therefore greece is everywhere.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it is very entertaining today in the house. there are still, let me remind you, a lot of us who experienced communism and who since then have made enormous and swift progress to prepare ourselves for membership of the european union. we were rightly made to prove ourselves, to prove that we met the copenhagen criteria, to prove that we enjoyed fully-functioning market economies and so on and so forth, but unfortunately this level of scrutiny was not applied to some european countries when entering the euro zone. why? simply because it was constructed as a political and not as an economic project, and therefore the criteria were ignored; figures were changed to bring in countries that were not yet ready. that is the core of the problem, and now we are living out the consequences and we are at a turning point. believe me, despite the fact that most members of my group are from non-euro zone member countries, we do not want the euro to fail. at the same time, it cannot be defended at any cost. we are surely on the final pages of the bail-out chapter. this european council should send a clear signal that if a country’s position is unsustainable within the euro zone then, unless it makes dramatic changes, the euro zone should not hesitate to raise the possibility of restructuring its debt or even – however cruel it might seem – of its leaving the club. mr barroso, if you do not do that, then i will tell you what will happen next: your opponents – or rather the opponents of your successor – will not be nice, decent eurosceptics like me, but really nasty anti-europeans. and why? because they will be elected by angry german taxpayers and by desperate french and dutch private entrepreneurs fed up of paying other people’s debts, and i know that neither you nor i want this to happen. so let us act accordingly. in the same way, i would ask you to please stop using or misusing every crisis as an opportunity to pursue further the supra-nationalistic agenda towards something like fiscal union or tax union, because it leads us nowhere. this is not a crisis of europe. this is just a crisis of one wrong, outdated concept of european integration, and that is all.
mr president, i would like to ask mr swoboda if he agrees with the view that in some member states the crisis is being used as a tool for the silent dispossession of the population. does he see it that way?
madam president, the time is finally approaching when the old and new member states of the union will be able to harmonize their agricultural policies and end ten years of discrimination against farmers from the new member states. i welcome that development. i hope that in the new period no new discriminatory conditions will be applied to farmers. i regret to say that the dess report contains such a thing. i am thinking in particular of support for the so-called direct payments to larger farms. i consider this to be discriminatory towards countries like the czech republic, where we have more farms than anywhere else in the european union for historical reasons. i therefore reject the introduction of direct payments as a measure which will reduce the efficiency of farming throughout the european union. agriculture has always been primarily about food production. now, however, a number of politicians, particularly from the greens and the left, want to turn farmers into biofuel producers and global warming fighters. i don't support that kind of development.
i am pleased to note that the new cap is ending a period of discrimination against farmers in some member states, including my own. thank you, mr. speaker, for your work, which shows the hand of a man who understands the issues. i am even more appalled by the attempt to create new discriminatory conditions. the direct payment poisoning is a new discrimination against member states with a specific historical development, which has resulted in the predominance of farms farming on larger areas of land. however, these farms comply with the same rules and provide the same services as small farms in other countries and are equally well placed to receive direct payments. discrimination against large enterprises due to congestion can put rural jobs at risk and stifle innovation potential. can we accept discrimination against certain member states in the form of differences in payment per hectare or overcrowding if we want to talk about the single market in a credible way? the farmers of the new twelve are now at the end of a difficult ten-year period, which they have entered into with the understanding that it is a transitional period which will not be extended. we must not continue to perpetuate inequalities that are contrary to the spirit of the accession negotiations, nor undermine the eu's credibility in the eyes of some of its citizens. we are playing with the future of the eu itself. i therefore call on all colleagues to support amendments nos 10 and 11, which reject the backlog of payments.
a basic condition for fair competition in the internal market is the establishment of fair and transparent conditions for all farmers within the eu. the cap future report is moving in this direction. a number of compromises negotiated are clearly to be welcomed, for example on simplifying administrative procedures in the various cap areas or maintaining full funding of direct payments from the eu budget and rejecting their renationalisation. on the contrary, i consider it problematic in view of the historical specificities of the individual member states to favour or disadvantage european farmers on the basis of other criteria, such as size.
for the ecr group. mr president, the package of six proposals to improve discipline within the euro area is based on the belief that member states will be more compliant with the new stricter architecture of transnational supervision. i find this problematic to consider, particularly because some members have so far been unable to comply with and effectively enforce the soft rules. let me mention four points which i consider to be controversial. the first point is reverse qualified majority voting, which has been discussed many times here. we consider the reverse qualified majority vote to be an exceptional instrument, the use of which must always be properly and consistently explained and its use properly investigated to ensure that it does not conflict with primary law. we do not agree with the increase in the number of areas of supervisory procedures where the use of reverse qualified majority voting is proposed. the procedure proposed increases the political power of the commission and the european parliament at the expense of the council and the national authorities, which is not what we want. as regards the monitoring missions, i have serious reservations about the proposal for monitoring missions, since they will be composed mainly of officials of the european commission and will be entrusted with significant powers, without the members of these missions having any political mandate. that's a policy. people, however well-intentioned, who are not subject to public scrutiny by their electorate, cannot exercise oversight over the heads of national political bodies or the highest national institutions. the scoreboard, an attempt to compile a list of macroeconomic indicators at the transnational level and to assess the ability of national governments and their economies to deal with economic imbalances, is questionable. the current situation in greece is a good example of how recipes for solving a situation that are dictated from outside arouse resistance among the domestic population and are one of the sources of escalating social tensions.
in writing. a crisis can be an opportunity to change or create new rules and institutions. economist joseph schumpeter spoke of what he called creative destruction. the eu therefore has a unique opportunity at this time to create a new mechanism that should lead to greater macroeconomic stability, fiscal and monetary, of the member states in the long term and contribute to their increased competitiveness. experience of the functioning of economic and monetary union so far shows that such rules need to be anchored in legislation rather than relying on the voluntary action of individual member states. the legislative package of six proposals to create a better framework for the management of economic affairs is therefore a step in the right direction. four proposals concern fiscal matters, including reform of the stability and growth pact, while two new regulations seek to identify and address emerging macroeconomic imbalances in the eu and the euro area. however, in order to enforce these new rules effectively, it is and will be desirable that national parliaments and the european parliament are also more closely and more timely involved in the whole process. overall, i consider the legislative package presented to be an adequate response to the global crisis and the current economic situation in the eu, based on relevant legislation and in line with the europe 2020 strategy and other eu strategic documents, and therefore recommend that it be adopted as proposed.
draftsman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the results of her work. as rapporteur for the opinion in the envi committee, i had the opportunity to see firsthand how a technical proposal became a highly political topic overnight, and i would also like to thank all my colleagues who managed to maintain a factual approach under the pressure of the disaster in japan. in particular, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the envi committee for their contributions to the quality of the opinion of this committee. i believe that the directive will set the legal framework of the european union for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste and will be an integral part of the legislation ensuring the safe use of nuclear energy in those member states which retain it in their energy mix. among other things, i very much welcome the requirement that member states ensure adequate funding for the costs associated with spent fuel management. i have personally visited some radioactive waste storage facilities and i am convinced that the lack of funding could be a direct cause of a reduction in their safety, and this must be prevented in europe.
for the ecr group. madam president, as the shadow rapporteur for the ecr, i would like to commend the report by my colleague jordan cizelj. this report comes at a very difficult time, with the hysterical debate following the natural disaster in japan and the impact of this disaster on nuclear power plants. after much discussion, a rational approach to radioactive waste management was maintained. the report also stresses the importance of the obligation to inform and disclose about these activities in order to increase public confidence. all these activities must be subject to strict controls in accordance with international standards. it is important that both intermediate and long-term storage is ensured in accordance with these standards. these are very expensive activities and facilities that have been in operation for decades, if not centuries. it is therefore necessary to take into account further technological developments in the coming decades. the storage technology must allow for some flexibility into the future. in my view, it is unwise to pursue the absolute conservation of nuclear waste in a permanent repository.
in writing. the message in its original form reflects a great deal of secular enthusiasm and a somewhat unrealistic attempt to disconnect the reality of today's electricity supply from a set of wishful thinking. probably all eu citizens will applaud the bold plans for 80 and 95% reduction of emissions by 2050. but this general plan, when examined more closely, must be supported by the very real possibilities of present energy sources. it's not possible to eliminate the use of coal and natural gas overnight. by the way, the use of natural gas has been expanding significantly in recent years in the eu countries. in the wake of the hysteria that erupted after the earthquake in japan and the problems with the reactors at the fukushima nuclear power plant, citizens in some eu countries decided to move away from nuclear energy in a relatively short time. so we don't see any problem at all. in particular, the eu does not have transmission lines that could provide sufficient electricity in the north-south and east-west directions. as is well known, wind does not always blow in northern germany either, and solar cells currently convert only the solar energy that hits them into electricity with an efficiency of about 11%. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. the conclusions of the gue/ngl report are supported, a detailed analysis of the plans must necessarily follow.
the report also contains a number of recommendations on the future of the urban dimension of cohesion policy. this report focuses on cities and their role in cohesion policy. however, i would like to stress at the outset that this does not mean that we should forget about the countryside when distributing european funds. on the contrary, we need to work together to develop both large cities and small rural communities in a synergistic way. i have, incidentally, emphasised these points in my amendments to mr siekierski's report on the future of the common agricultural policy. i would like to make a few points in my opening remarks. first, we must recognise that cities are an important platform for the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy, and for their unquestionable importance in the economic development of europe's regions. it is therefore essential that cities are given a strong mandate in implementing the objectives of this common european strategy. secondly, i would like to emphasize that in a number of cities we need to complete basic infrastructure. i believe that the appropriate solution is not simply to rebuild, but to modernise and invest technologically in infrastructure through information technology. they should ensure that the leap in growth and the improvement in the quality of life in cities really happens. it is this type of growth-promoting investment that we should prefer, also in view of the principle of concentration. thirdly, let me bring up the subject of partnership. the concept of partnership is often an empty concept. i would therefore like to see us providing cities with real support and call on the commission to make it mandatory for member states to formally involve the political representatives of the most important urban areas and associations of local and regional authorities in all stages of decision-making in cohesion policy. it is desirable that municipal representatives have the opportunity to participate in the negotiation of planned national strategic development contracts. fourthly, and this is the last major point of the proposed report that i would like to highlight today, and that is the tools of financial engineering. there's been a lot of talk about jessica. but there's not much going on in the real world. i would therefore like to invite the commission to assess the experience with these instruments and to adjust their rules so that they are competitive with other instruments in the financial market. at the same time, i would like to call on the member states to implement jessica at the level of cities, not regions or states. because that's the only way that cities can be truly owned and have long-term impacts.
the rapporteur of the committee on transport and tourism. - madam president, interreg iii, the crossborder cooperation programme for regions, is a whole development tool. i consider the flexibility provided for in article 21 of the european fund regulation to be an important element, i.e. the possibility of providing funds for expenditure not covered by the programme. i believe that both the stabilisation of the rules and this flexibility will help to facilitate the implementation of the programme. the european groupings for territorial cooperation (egtcs) can play an important role as legal entities. i believe that their status will soon be clarified and their position will be greatly strengthened. this can also contribute to the involvement of private actors, and where appropriate contributing organisations, and thus to the efficiency of the use of funds. this enhanced territorial cooperation programme is supported by the gue/ngl group.
(speaker speaking out of the microphone) ... agrees with the thesis of mr guellec's report for the previous period that the current form of cohesion policy does not contribute to the convergence of regions, only states converge, and is the cause of the most dynamic regions of the european union losing momentum.
i have the pleasure of informing you that members of a delegation from the national assembly of mauritania have taken their seats in the official gallery. i would like to extend a warm welcome to this delegation led by mr el arbi ould sidi ali. they are here to meet with members of the european parliament. once more, welcome to brussels and to our parliament. relations between the european union and mauritania are very important for the european parliament. i am convinced that the fruitful dialogue between members of the european parliament and members of the mauritanian parliament can contribute to enhancing these relations and also to developing new areas of cooperation between the eu and mauritania.
we now continue with the debate on the reports on cohesion policy.
the reporter. - mr president, allow me first of all to thank all my colleagues for the very good cooperation and the very constructive debate. let me close with two provocative remarks to this whole discussion. the structural funds were mainly based on bridging the gap between regions and should therefore be directed mainly to the most backward parts of the european union, i.e. to convergence objective 1. wealthier regions will benefit by increasing market opportunities for their products and services. on the other hand, any proposed attempts to boost investment in objective 2 regions or to create a strong transitional category of regions without knowledge of funding should be rejected. because i don't see any reason to redistribute money from the rich to the rich forever. however, i see a certain transitional mechanism between objectives 1 and 2 as a suitable complement. secondly, i think it is crucial that we stop distorting the market through funds. the fact that one entrepreneur receives a subsidy for the construction of the hall and the other does not logically leads to a distortion of the market. the second party must also include the cost of building the hall in the price of the products sold, and thus logically has them more expensive or has a lower profit. it would be much more appropriate if the final beneficiaries were only the public authorities, i.e. the state, the counties, the prefectures, the cities and the municipalities, which invested the money in pro-growth measures. i realize that such a radical change is not possible. but it is possible to at least try to go down this road and take a small step in that direction. in the words of neil armstrong, it would be a small step for european funds, but a big leap for the european economy.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. (the sitting was suspended at 11.45 and resumed at 11.50) written statements (rule 149)
ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, let us take our seats for the official signing of a very important agreement between the european parliament and the european commission: the ‘lobbyists register’. we voted on the casini report at the last plenary session in strasbourg and now we will have the official signing. we voted on 11 may 2011. for the official signing, i should like to welcome minister győri and maroš šefčovič, vice-president of the european commission, and our colleagues diana wallis, vice-president of the european parliament, who was in the negotatior’s team, vice-president isabelle durant, vice-president rainer wieland and carlo casini, chair of the committee on constitutional affairs and also the rapporteur.
madam president, i am very grateful that mr schwab has managed to reach a compromise with the council, in the sense that consumer rights will be strengthened and that the compromise includes my proposals on online trading. i voted for this report, of course, but i regret that the hungarian presidency blocked my proposal, which had previously been supported by the whole of parliament, to give consumers the right to receive goods from another country on agreed terms. unfortunately, this accounts for one third of all cross-border orders rejected in this way, according to eurostat. online shops like itunes and others do not deliver their goods or services to the new member states. this discriminates against czech customers as against, for example, french or dutch customers. the internal market is thus still not unified in terms of the digital environment and the council has thus missed its exceptional opportunity.
the european parliament adopted today, madam president, a report on the common agricultural policy until 2020. this report, like myself, has long supported the drive to establish a fair playing field for all farmers in the eu, which means a departure from the historical criteria for direct payments. i did not support the report, however, to express my strong disagreement with the adoption of the proposal to allocate payments according to the size of farms. this will discriminate against, for example, czech farmers, or force them to artificially divide farms into smaller units in order to obtain subsidies. i am personally in favour of the development of small farms, but these are measures which will, in turn, make european farmers less competitive in certain countries.
in writing. - i have no objections in substance to the eu-canada civil aviation agreement. i still abstained from the vote. the reason is the unresolved situation in eu-czech republic-canada relations regarding the lifting of the unilateral visa requirement for czech citizens. i repeat that the parliament of the czech republic is blocking the ratification of the sister air transport agreement for the same reasons. i ask the european commission to finally address this problem with all seriousness. commissioner malmström's lukewarm stance is the reason that the situation has not been resolved after two years, and has contributed to the deteriorating relations between the czech republic and canada.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr vlasák, rapporteur, on the european urban agenda and its future in cohesion policy. i welcome the main objective of this report, which is to promote the urban dimension of cohesion policy in the new programming period and to take account of the current developments in the urban agenda in the european union. however, i would also like to mention the recently published white paper on the future of transport by 2050, which sets out the way forward towards a single european transport area. i consider that the persisting disparity in the level of infrastructure and transport services in the different member states is one of the major obstacles to achieving the ambitious objectives of this white paper. cohesion policy instruments must therefore continue to play an important role in bringing these levels closer together towards sustainable and safe european transport. this is true for both urban and rural areas, especially cross-border ones, where prosperity and employment depend on the development of infrastructure.
in writing. on 23 june 2011, parliament approved a proposal for a directive on consumer rights, which replaces the existing four directives in one legal instrument. this is the first step towards the incorporation of consumer protection legislation into european standards. the directive is primarily a response to the fragmentation of crossborder trade regulation, where traders are not willing to follow different rules in another member state, especially when trading via the internet. in particular, the directive introduces new obligations to inform consumers of the place of business, telephone and fax numbers and email addresses for easier communication with the trader. the new obligation for traders to pay the direct costs of returning goods in cases where the price of the goods does not exceed eur 50 is also new. in the czech legal order, the proposed directive does not, apart from the above-mentioned innovations, involve any substantial interference with the legislation on consumer protection. the new rules concern mainly the conclusion of distance contracts. i therefore supported the proposal for a directive.
in writing. − i voted for the consumer rights directive because i believe that it will ultimately strengthen the rights of european consumers. in particular, my group has succeeded in putting forward a number of key points which maintain a high level of consumer protection in countries where this protection would be reduced by the introduction of common rules. it was important for the social democrats and for me personally that the directive should apply to digital products as well as, in part, to passenger transport. another important point is that the directive contains a huge list of information requirements that must be provided by the trader to the consumer at the pre-contractual stage in the case of off-premises and distance contracts. another important point is that immediately before ordering anything online, the consumer must be informed of the full price and main characteristics of the product and only he himself must expressly confirm that he wants to pay this price. in addition, the right of withdrawal will be fully harmonised in all member states, i.e. it will provide for a period of 14 days. the new directive also abolishes the exception for distance or off-premises contracts, which has been widely abused in the czech republic, for example by street vendors or at senior events, and which deprives consumers of their rights, for example to withdraw from the contract.
in writing. the draft european budget for 2012 will be only the second after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. after the complicated negotiations last year, it is to be expected that the budgetary battle will be tough again this year, right up to the last minute. however, the real institutional struggle will only begin once the union has decided on a new multiannual financial framework. this is why the preparation of the current trialogue will need to focus on better coordination between all the parties involved in the negotiation process, so that the european budget can provide sufficient resources to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. these objectives promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and, therefore, investment in decent jobs. i can fully agree with the priorities set by the rapporteur, mrs balzani. i also believe that the eu budget should play its role as the main mechanism for strengthening and restoring growth and employment. i would also like to emphasise that the rapporteur's conclusions are fully in line with the dynamics of the european semester, which as a new instrument for strengthening european economic governance aims to increase coherence and complementarity and also to coordinate the eu budget and national budgets in the implementation of joint eu investments to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. i regret that the report on the new eu agricultural policy post-2013 adopted by the ep today failed to remove the intention to block direct payments to farmers. the approval of the stacking of subsidies in practice means that a limit will be set for direct subsidies depending on the size of the farm. i would point out that the czech republic in particular, with an average farm size of 85 ha (the european average is about 15 ha), has the largest farms in the eu, so they would pay dearly for the obstruction of direct payments. the introduction of direct payments would not only be disastrous for czech agriculture. in the worst case scenario, czech farmers would lose up to czk 13 billion, which would result in a weakening of their competitive position on the market. the result of today's vote, in my view, is therefore a blow to the farmers of the old member states, who are typically smaller farmers. i insist that the obstruction of direct payments would be an indisputable discrimination against large farms. it would lead to large farms artificially splitting up to minimise financial losses, even at the cost of increasing bureaucratic burdens. the artificial and forced crushing of farms would then ultimately cost european agriculture as a whole.
madam president, we are discussing today another of the measures prompted by the experience of the global economic crisis. the effort to monitor the otc derivatives market and, where necessary, to regulate extreme behaviour is probably reasonable. however, as with other rules adopted at european level, the need for maximum administration must not be allowed to undermine well-functioning mechanisms which, on the contrary, greatly facilitate rapid trade without significant risks. the financial instruments used, particularly in the energy sector, are in most cases not speculative but based on a real commercial interest and hedging of risks. the new rules for otc derivatives in the energy sector should contribute to strengthening stability and transparency in financial markets, but should not increase costs and prices for the end-user. this also means that the obligations of the new rules should only apply to future contracts. i am a strong advocate for ensuring that all these procedures are simplified.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
that concludes the item.
the next item is the report by sylvana rapti, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the universal service and ‘112’ emergency number (2010/2274(ini)) (a7-0220/2011).
mr president, i do not want to repeat what my colleagues have said, but the real problem with 112 is that only 26% of europeans are aware of it, so this communication strategy must be a priority for the member states in cooperation with the european commission. the location of the caller on this line must also be improved, since it is crucial to the chance of saving a life. i also support the idea of a so-called reverse 112 line, which would be a system of early warning of citizens by means of telecommunications services about natural and other disasters that are already increasing in our country. i also strongly support the expansion of possibilities for disabled users of telecommunications services and i welcome, of course, the commission's commitment to extending high-speed internet access to european citizens beyond urban areas.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by anna maria corazza bildt, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on a more efficient and fairer retail market (2010/2109(ini)) (a7-0217/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2011.
the next item is the report by charles goerens, on behalf of the committee on development, on the future of eu budget support to developing countries (2010/2300(ini)) (a7-0206/2011).
mr president, this report contains substantial arguments for deepening the budgetary form of development aid, instead of the older project form. however, it would be desirable for the international monetary fund and the world bank to work with the commission to develop independent indicators to assess the effective use of financial support from european taxpayers' money. given that some countries, such as rwanda and uganda, demonstrate better public finance management than others, it would be desirable for the governments and parliaments of development aid recipients to share this good experience and to cooperate in the development of those evaluation indicators. in conclusion, i would like to highlight the high quality and wide coverage of both reports by my colleagues goerenz and subsequently kaczmarek. i'd like to comment on this report later.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2011.
the next item is the report by francisco sosa wagner, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond (2011/2034(ini)) (a7-0226/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by proinsias de rossa, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the future of social services of general interest (2009/2222(ini)) (a7-0239/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by filip kaczmarek, on behalf of the committee on development, on increasing the impact of eu development policy (2011/2047(ini)) (a7-0205/2011).
mr president, i am fully in favour of the european development fund finding its place in the overall budget of the union, and i like that mr kaczmarek has formulated a loose position, not only in terms of the pressure for better control of resources, transparency and efficiency of public administration in the countries receiving development aid. the largest sum of money for development is useless if it disappears into the abyss of corruption. i also share his concern that focusing on a very limited number of safe countries at the expense of those with greater security risks is a problem, because that is precisely why assistance in those countries may be needed more. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize the warning contained in paragraph 84 of mr kaczmarek's report. it's about buying farmland, mostly from chinese investors. this could seriously threaten the local population, especially their food supply and the development of agricultural activities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 july 2011. written statements (rule 149)
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister, hungary certainly deserves recognition for its excellent performance during the presidency, let me say it from this place, especially to the secretary of state, who spent many hours with us. it was the next new member state, after slovenia and the czech republic, to hold the presidency of the european union, and it was not an easy task. in domestic politics, for example, hungary faced an unprecedented eurozone shock, and in external relations, it faced social and political changes in north africa and the middle east unprecedented in decades, challenges that would have shaken the knees of even the most seasoned players. and it is also worth noting that hungary has maintained internal political stability during its presidency, unlike, for example, my own country, where during our presidency the opposition irresponsibly overthrew the government and thus damaged my country's image within the european union. but let me take a breath. and this is not about the hungarian presidency, but rather about the overall role of the new member countries in the european union, which is reflected in the exercise of the presidency. i do not entirely agree with prime minister orbán here, i thought that the enlargement of the european union to central and eastern europe would give the european union new dynamism, new impulses, new experiences. in my opinion, that hasn't happened yet. the new member states, in my view, have very quickly embarked on the comfortable trajectory of the old masters with all that entails, including european new speak, including federalist ideology, and the presidency of the european union is increasingly becoming a kind of technical and organisational exercise in administration rather than political leadership. so i dream of the day when a prime minister will rise from that seat and say: "we need a new european paradigm, we cannot continue with the fifty-year-old, dysfunctional, outdated concept of european integration. let's look for a new concept. of course, when someone like that is found, mr cohn-bendit will write him off, say he is anti-european, but i am sure that out in the streets the citizens-voters will applaud him.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i would like to say that i like hungary and hungarian culture, and that is why i was curious to see how hungary would implement its strong europe, erős európa, programme. i must say that i was disappointed because i have been involved in several trialogue meetings, tripartite negotiations between the council, the commission and the european parliament, and i have found a complete lack of preparation and a complete lack of opinion. it's what my colleague zahraedil said, which means continuing a certain comfortable, worn-out stereotype. if i could sum up the results of this presidency, i would say, unlike those who are thanking the hungarian presidency, that it was a 'zero presidency', a 'zero presidency'. it is a great disappointment to me also because it was really a presidency that was facing challenges both internally and externally. so where did mr. orbán's group or team take this strong approach? this strong approach was applied to the own media, the hungarian media, the hungarian intelligentsia and the hungarian population. there was a strong approach. i believe that there is an unnecessary complacency in this parliament and that we really need to wake up and look for other ways. an opportunity that the new member countries have so far squandered, including my own country. and so, perhaps, that awakening will come when we face even greater challenges. perhaps in this context i can recall the words of the great hungarian poet endre ady, in his poem we need mohács, nekünk mohács kell.
for the ecr group. mr president, i believe that the report by mrs lepage goes far beyond the commission's proposal, as the commissioner has stressed. it is clearly driven by opposition to gmos and under the banner of strengthening the role of national states, it seeks to ban gmos even if the product is approved and scientifically tested by the fsa. we know that genetically modified food is becoming a common product in the rest of the world, and our precautionary measures can and are worsening the position of our farmers on the world market. this report would be fair if it allowed member states and our citizens, on the other hand, to grow genetically modified food which is not approved at european level. but this report only increases the existing restrictions. i cannot support this report unless amendments are adopted which make it a little more liberal.
in writing. member states need a clear legal framework for gmo cultivation that does not jeopardise existing legislation. the proposal also serves eu citizens who do not want gmos to be grown on their territory. given the lack of unity in europe on gmo cultivation, member states need to share responsibility for how they release gmos into the environment. the environmental risks and the threat to biodiversity can be high, and the monoculture nature of gm crops is also a danger. in some countries, so-called "superweeds", which have been created by artificial resistance to herbicides, are already a problem. the precautionary principle must be strictly observed in the case of gmos. it is necessary to address the current situation where studies required by the applicable legislation are not available. therefore, the powers of the state should be strengthened in the absence of relevant data on impacts at national, regional or local level. the rights of member states to use gmos on their own territory should be respected, which is a matter of subsidiarity, but without prejudice to the rules of the internal market and the free movement of goods and products within the union. i welcome parliament's decision and i call on the council to accept it as soon as possible.
mr president, i would just like to thank all the political groups, and particularly the leaders of the political groups, for a very smooth arrangement that allowed us to fill these two vacant places. it sends a very good signal that the second half of our term will go as smoothly as today.
in writing. following the floods that affected, among others, the liberec and ústí regions in august 2010, the rapporteur, mr böge, presented a report on the further mobilisation of the european solidarity fund. i welcome the positive outcome of today's vote to support those regions in my home country affected by natural disasters. in conclusion, i would also like to stress the importance of the existence of this fund, which is available to help member states in the recovery from natural disasters. it is an effective expression of solidarity that really helps the citizens of the european union in times of urgent need. i thank all my colleagues for their support of this report.
in writing. i was pleased to support the report on the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund to rebuild infrastructure damaged by the floods that devastated the territories of slovenia, croatia and the czech republic in september 2010. the water and landslides have claimed human lives and caused extensive damage to buildings and agricultural land, and have damaged road and rail networks and other infrastructure. although the aid amount represents only a few percent of the total damage assessment, it is nevertheless a significant aid to finance repairs. the czech republic is drawing 11 million euros from this disaster relief fund, more than double the amount it received the first time.
in writing. − in general, the report objectively describes the current situation regarding universal service in electronic communications. i particularly appreciate the fact that parliament is aware of the importance of preserving the market environment in the field of electronic communications. this is indeed borne out by the report itself, which stresses the need to avoid market distortions in the enforcement of the revised directive. although the report is fairly balanced, i am slightly concerned by its call for the commission and the member states to step up measures to promote demand and the introduction of new services rather than simply providing connectivity. i believe that this is a misunderstanding of the role of the state in the field of electronic communications and broadband policy. if the state is to operate transparently and not distort competition and market mechanisms, it can naturally only support the development of broadband by providing quality e-government, e-health or e-learning services, i.e. a quality offer. any further measures increasing the demand for broadband almost always undermine the functioning of the market and distort competition to a greater or lesser extent.
in writing. − i support this report because it very accurately points out the current shortcomings in the functioning of the internal market. in particular, it addresses a number of administrative obstacles that effectively impede the free movement of goods across the union. i appreciate that the report stresses the need for the commission to intervene against any member state which violates the principles of the internal market. the report also recognises that member states are responsible for their trade-placement policies and that the union should not interfere with the arrangements that member states make for themselves in this area. i consider the report's key message to be the emphasis on competition law as a tool to defend against the abuse of a dominant position or significant market power. the report does not, therefore, have the trend of resorting to the creation of new legislation in this area, but prefers to use standard legal instruments. i appreciate that, unlike many other reports coming from the european parliament, the report addresses the essence of european integration, namely the functioning of the internal market, while respecting that the essence of market relations is to be contractual freedom and consumer protection, and that market dynamics must not be distorted.
in writing. i agree with the need to review the regulation establishing a union-wide network of public authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection laws in the member states (cpc network), which became operational in december 2006. the revision takes the form of an update of the content of the annex to reflect the latest developments in consumer protection legislation. the latest commission report on the application of the cpc regulation 2009 reveals a number of doubts regarding the system for cross-border enforcement of the consumer acquis, such as the fact that a significant number of notified bodies are not connected to the system or are not actively using it. another problem is the increasing length of processing requests. in addition, the continued fragmentation of procedural rules for enforcement needs to be addressed. different systems of national legislation and enforcement make it difficult to effectively combat infringements within the eu. some public authorities have effective means to stop infringements, while others have to go to court and face lengthy procedures. the costs of legal proceedings may also cause difficulties, in particular if the requesting authority is unable to bear the costs of legal proceedings, if any. the fact that applications are taking longer than they are closed (currently over 150 days) can be partly explained by the greater complexity of cross-border cases, but is often a sign of a failure to meet deadlines.
in writing. the eu should focus on energy infrastructure that is outdated and poorly connected in the coming financial period. moreover, quality infrastructure is essential to achieve the eu's long-term goals, such as reducing carbon emissions, guaranteeing security of supply and price stability for consumers, and developing a single energy market that ensures access to energy resources at affordable prices for businesses and citizens. as regards electricity, the commission should make progress in defining and implementing its proposals for priority corridors to link european transport networks by 2020, in particular the proposals on infrastructure and interconnections necessary to integrate the production of electricity from renewable sources. the key is to accelerate the identification and construction of electric highways. the new network infrastructure should include 'smart networks' thanks to the resources offered by new information and communication technologies. smart technologies should enable citizens to control their household appliances, thus preventing waste and reducing their individual and collective costs. natural gas is a particular problem. i find our reliance on a single source in eastern europe worrying, as it can lead to problems of security of supply, as has happened in the past. i therefore believe that diversification of resources should be the main feature of the new policy aimed at securing supply.
in writing. − i believe that eu activities in the area of social services of general interest should focus on the exchange of best practices in promoting further modernisation of social services of general interest in individual member states. i expect the commission to play an initiating and supporting role, including training regional and local authorities in the implementation of eu rules in relation to social services of general interest. following the 2007 communication, a reform programme containing clarifications of this aid and recognition of the specific non-market nature of social services of general interest should be put in place to ensure full compliance not only with the provisions of the single market but also with the social obligations contained in the treaties. the objective should be to create a flexible framework for social services of general interest, using all the tools at our disposal, to ensure that the union's social objectives do not restrict or even paralyse business activity within the internal market.
mr president, i am one of those colleagues who are satisfied with the result of the compromise reached. i would like to wish and thank the rapporteur for the results of her work. there's been a lot of talk about country of origin, especially with fresh meat. it was a little bit funny to me how we can be european and how our europeanness disappears the moment we have to buy a piece of meat. but i personally have no problem with that, and i know that it is often a demand of our citizens as well. some of the proposals that were there assumed that every eu citizen was a fool and had to be constantly educated and instructed. i'm glad we agreed on an acceptable font size. it will probably have to be sufficient within the limits of the size of the packaging and within the limits of our consumers. i also think that some of the drastic changes in the final product will be a burden on consumers, but that's to be expected. so i consider the result an acceptable success and i'm going to vote for it.
in writing. the debate on the proposal for a regulation on the provision of food information at second reading is a good illustration of the irreplaceable role of parliament as the body closest to the citizens of the union. we cannot allow economic interests alone to prevail. it is logical that industry lobbies their governments to reduce the information requirements to the minimum, as this saves costs. personally, i consider it most important not only that information be provided as widely as possible, but that, for example, the obligation of food manufacturers to label products containing substances that pose risks to allergy sufferers or other sick people be strictly observed. i consider this information on the packaging of products to be essential. it is also totally unacceptable to provide information on the composition and use of foodstuffs on packaging in as small a print as possible. this practice poses an unacceptable risk to the older generation, whose rights are being curtailed by this practice. most seniors have trouble reading this type of writing. i therefore welcome further detailed definition of the obligations of manufacturers and distributors in the labelling and provision of food information to consumers.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on her really hard work on this report. the compromise reached should be taken as a first step to be followed up as soon as possible. as things stand, european drivers abroad feel they can get away with it, and for the most part they can. according to a eurobarometer survey last june, cross-border enforcement is the third highest priority for european citizens in terms of road safety, after improving transport infrastructure and enforcing traffic rules at national level. i therefore strongly support the rapporteur's view that the commission should propose as soon as possible harmonisation in the area of road traffic enforcement. only if we set up sanctions at european level will we achieve that road traffic rules apply to all drivers without exception. the compromise we have now reached is to be welcomed. the exchange of information between member states can make a significant contribution to reducing the number of serious road accidents. the estimated 5,000 victims spared speak for themselves, and that's why i'm calling for us to support this compromise tomorrow.
in writing. road safety consists of three circuits. the first is infrastructure safety, i.e. the design of the roads, the visibility, the placement of signs, etc. the second circle is the safety and security features of the vehicles and the third is the driver of the vehicle. if the white paper set out a significant reduction in the number of road deaths (the target was a 50% reduction) years ago, then according to various studies the driver is the weakest of the three factors affecting accidents. it is therefore important to take all possible measures to 'improve' the weakest of the three elements of road traffic. one of these measures is to improve the enforcement of traffic regulations. according to various investigations, improving enforcement of road transport law is one of the important elements of improving the current situation, i.e. non-enforcement of fines for offences committed in another state. in some states, law enforcement agencies are easily found, especially in the case of bad parking. in other cases, the matter is more complex, and enforcement is lacking, especially when automated means are used, without the transfer of information between states. the subject of the report is therefore very topical and i am personally sorry that the amendments of the european commission and the council omit a number of parts of the original text. however, i believe that we can accept the material after the rapporteur's proposal has been approved.
mr president, the threat of terrorism in the world today is unfortunately real and security is a priority that cannot be taken lightly. the introduction of technical measures aimed at improving safety at european airports is, of course, understandable. however, the feasibility of their implementation may mean legal uncertainty for european citizens and, in a way, less effectiveness of these measures. i therefore consider it appropriate to adopt framework rules on this sensitive issue for their possible application at european level. i'd like to thank the reporting officer and the shadow reporters for the work they did on the report. i'm glad that human health issues have been brought into the spotlight. ionising radiation and the risks of repeated and long-term exposure, as well as the different legislation in different member states, are just one of the many aspects of this issue. the others have already been mentioned. protection of personal data, privacy, human dignity, the way it is presented and so on. the financing of these facilities is also a key issue. unfortunately, no technical measure can guarantee 100% safety. that's just a concluding statement.
for the ecr group. i would also like to congratulate you, mr president, because i have two small children at home and i know what a joy it is. now, on to the subject. as a general supporter of equal opportunities for women and men in all areas, i welcome the initiative in this area and believe that it is necessary to raise awareness of this issue and to put it at the forefront of the concerns of the member states. the established and prevailing monocultures in company management are no longer economically or socially viable. i was very supportive of this report when it first started, because the rapporteur initially focused on creating a suitable framework for women in their career development. however, during the legislative procedure in the committee, this report has changed considerably. in its current form, it calls for the introduction of specific binding measures at european level. some member states have already developed their own initiative with regard to the introduction of quotas and it should, in my view, be left to the others to go in that direction. i am convinced that, as much as we all wish it, without the creation of appropriate working conditions, quotas alone will not help women in their work and careers.
in writing. the report by mrs pervenche berès sends a clear signal for a lasting solution to the current crisis and sets out a series of ambitious recommendations. i can agree with the rapporteur that it was the crisis caused by the high levels of public debt in the various member states that revealed the risks of intra-european imbalances. the eu must act and respond in unison by putting more pressure on closer coordination and harmonisation of fiscal policy. i share this view and i also agree with the rapporteur's idea that it is deeper european integration that can act as a protective shield against the next crisis. i agree with the rapporteur that the asymmetry of developments in the individual euro area member states must not be further exacerbated in the future. the rapporteur is very bold in calling for the creation of a single european finance ministry, whose remit would include the joint management of the debt. this european super-ministry could contribute to improving economic policy coordination not only in the euro area. such a revolution would be revolutionary, but it is not at present clear whether the union or the eurozone is capable of such a fundamental ideological and organisational revolution. at the same time, it is already clear that the euro area cannot continue to function in its current form after the current crisis and will need deeper reform.
madam president, i supported the resulting compromise of the trilogue because it is a sensible piece of legislation that can lead to a strengthening of road safety. i think it is right that this directive should only provide for the exchange of information and not for the harmonisation of sanctions and the enforcement of fines, because that would, in my view, place an undue burden on the administrations of the member states. however, i would like to point out that the final text presents certain problems from a legal point of view. according to article 9, the commission should develop guidelines for road safety at union level within the framework of the common transport policy. however, this directive is based on a police legal basis and therefore it is not possible to propose harmonisation measures in the form of the proposed guidelines in the area of law enforcement, where there is exclusive competence of the member states.
madam president, i and our groups welcome and support the desire to increase the representation of women in management positions and on company boards, which is still very low at present. however, we could not support this report because it adopted proposals which support and call for binding targets and legislative action at european level. the principle of competitiveness in the labour market is our guiding principle. the selection of women for management positions and their appointment to the boards of directors shall not be based on gender but on qualifications and appropriate experience. we oppose the introduction of binding legislative measures and quotas for women at european level and believe that national governments and employers are better placed to decide when and how to support women in increasing participation in these positions.
in writing. - i support the extension of broadband coverage as i believe it will facilitate communication, especially for people with reduced mobility or living in isolation, and improve access to services in rural areas and support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. i am therefore disappointed that the eur 1 billion of funding promised in 2008 in the european economic recovery plan for 100% broadband coverage by 2010 has not been allocated and thus has not yet been achieved. i have no doubt that broadband services are key to the competitiveness of eu industry and make a major contribution to economic growth, social cohesion, job creation and to increasing the participation of all social groups in the digital life of the eu. i believe that the successful implementation of the broadband package is crucial to tackling unemployment, especially among young people, in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. in this respect, i therefore support the commission's cooperation with the eib to improve the financing of high-speed and ultra-high-speed networks, with the view that this financing should be oriented towards open infrastructure projects that promote the diversity of services. i also support the commission in its efforts to explore the possibilities of new financial resources and innovative financial instruments.
in writing. i think it's a positive development that the nutrition facts don't have to be on the front of the pack. this leaves producers with more scope to display the name, logo and various marketing communications necessary to ensure the competitiveness of the product on the market. the consumer also receives new information on the origin of poultry, pigmeat, sheepmeat and lambmeat from the packaging, which is an important prerequisite for making an informed decision on the purchase of products containing meat, especially in the context of the recent avian influenza outbreak. overall, i believe that the compromise reached balances the interests of consumers and producers, which is the exception rather than the rule in european legislation. the weakness of the new food labelling rules is, in my view, the lack of response to the problem of obesity, which is becoming the epidemic of the third millennium. this is a sensitive issue especially for the czech people, who are over two thirds obese and currently ranked second among the eu's most obese nations. in this context, i could imagine, for example, the introduction of an obligation to put a warning on the packaging of products with an excessive fat or sugar content. unfortunately, the new food labelling rules do not go that far.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the compromise text of the regulation on food labelling has been adopted by parliament. this compromise is close to the position recommended by my committee on the internal market two years ago. finally, a minimum font size (1.2 mm) will be introduced for mandatory nutrition information, allergen warnings, warnings on the use of substitutes or pressed or minced meat and other information to help consumers make better choices in food shops. this information includes the indication of the country of origin for all meat and fish or information on when the food was first frozen. i appreciate that mrs sommer has managed to negotiate a compromise with the council for the second reading. the advantage of this is that the commission will assess within two years the benefits and costs of any extension of the mandatory nutrition information.
in writing. the studies carried out show that foreign drivers are responsible for a disproportionate number of road accidents caused mainly by speeding. sanctions imposed for offences committed in the territory of a member state other than that in which the driver who committed them is resident are very often not enforced, in particular for offences that were recorded automatically, the number of which has increased significantly with the expansion of automatic radar systems on european roads. this relative impunity undermines the achievement of road safety objectives and calls into question the legitimacy of these controls in the eyes of european citizens who demand that resident and foreign drivers be treated in the same way. on the one hand, i welcome the council's change of legal basis from transport policy to police cooperation at first reading, because i consider the new legal basis to be more legislatively clean. on the other hand, i regret that it has used this amendment to weaken the integration elements by removing references to enforcement procedures and limiting its proposal to data exchange. enforcement thus remains optional, subject to the decisions of individual member states and consistent with national procedures. i consider this a missed opportunity to effectively help improve road safety in the eu.
in writing. air safety is a topic of endless debate. this concerns the security of passenger transport (checking of persons and luggage), the transport of goods and postal items. what substances can be potentially dangerous? liquids, gels and aerosols of a volume of > 100 ml, firearms and explosives, solid objects of defined shapes and dimensions (e.g. small nail scissors). the author of the report overlooks the fact that the european commission has found no one to justify the technically pointless regulation a general ban on the carriage of lags on board aircraft requested by the ep for the seventh year running. incidentally, neither the subway nor the high-speed railway have similar regulations, even though the number of passengers and the danger of attack are comparable. security scanners have two important unofficial functions. these contracts are of interest to suppliers and provide employment for a significant number of workers. their reliability is not 100%, despite considerable technical progress. the question is, what are we looking for? are we able to detect the target objects with the required probability? i'm still guessing the problematic location of the whole thing, and i have strong doubts about it. as for the lag affair, i can see in the background the current prices of drinks on board airplanes and at airports. i can't think of any other rational justification for the 100 ml fluid limit. despite my reservations about scanners, i believe that many parts of the report are rational and that is why gue/gnl supports it.
madam high representative, if the russian federation wants to be a respected partner for europe, then it must abandon the totalitarian practices by which it is now eliminating opposition, including the already-implemented exclusion of the parnas party from participating in elections. i lived in the former eastern bloc, and so i'm very sensitive to the way russia is gradually moving from totalitarianism through authoritarianism to democracy. but the current government, despite the ruling of the european court of justice, is systematically changing the electoral rules and stifling the free competition of political opinions. unfortunately, it's proof that the government is only pretending to build a democratic russia. and president medvedev in particular is tightening the reins again. i trust that you will continue to insist on respect for human rights in the russian federation and on putting an end to these practices, which otherwise also become an obstacle to cooperation within the eastern partnership policy. i believe that these practices are designed to ensure one-party rule for all time, as one of my colleagues here has said. i am, however, afraid that the autumn elections to the duma will not be declared free. so let me ask you a question in advance. what action do you propose to take on behalf of the european union, madam high representative? what can we do now to prevent or at least minimize such a situation? what is happening in russia now shows that russia is indeed moving towards an authoritarian system rather than a democracy. and that's bad for europe as well.
madam president, my colleague and friend méndez de vigo, i can say this, is certainly a friend of mine and i have a great relationship with his country, he probably lives in the mountains. a large part of the voters in the european union, about half a billion, live in the valley, and voter turnout is steadily decreasing year by year, and i think that's a big problem for the european union, because the european parliament is the only institution that is directly elected by the citizens. and the legitimacy of the citizens in this chamber is diminished year by year by those elections. i feel that the very essence of the measures is being lost when i read them, namely citizens within the european union. here in parliament, measures are being proposed where no one asks the citizens what they themselves want from the union. the engineering proposal is to create a single european constituency whose members would be even further removed from their citizens than the members currently elected in the member states. let us therefore try to get closer to the citizens, not invent pan-european circuits, but strengthen direct democracy and let the citizens themselves decide more often. let's think about how to allow them to participate in elections, for example, via the internet.
today marks the sixth anniversary of the terrorist attacks on london's public transport system, which left 52 people dead and nearly 800 injured. we remember and remember what happened in london on july 7, 2005, an event that we will never forget. our thoughts are with the families and friends of the victims of the terrorist attack. the london bombing was one of the worst terrorist attacks ever committed on european soil. let me say to the bombers and the terrorists: whatever they do, they will never achieve what they seek, for we truly value every human life. no terrorist or terrorist attack can ever cripple or destroy our faith in fundamental values such as basic human rights. terrorism is an attack on all of us, on the very essence of a democratic society. it will never be justified. europe will always be united in the fight against terrorism in all its forms. i'd like to ask for a moment of silence. (the house rose and observed a minute's silence)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
this closes voting time.
in writing. the commission has proposed that 2012 be the european year for active ageing. the aim of this european year is to stimulate and support the efforts of member states, regional and local authorities, social partners and civil society to promote active ageing and to do more to mobilise the potential of the rapidly growing population over the age of 55. in the committee on regional development, as shadow rapporteur, i promoted and supported the idea of adding a subtitle to the european year of active ageing, and it was successful. the subtitle is 'solidarity between generations'. active ageing aims to create better opportunities and working conditions for older workers so that they have a place in the labour market, to combat social exclusion by enhancing active participation in society and to promote healthy ageing. all these aspects are fulfilled in the decision, which is why i supported the declaration of 2012 as the european year for active ageing.
in writing. − i think that a single european electoral system is a good idea, but unfortunately it is too far ahead of political and social reality. it is clear that there is no european political nation at present that expresses its will in a unified way in the european elections, and european political parties are more a forum for discussion than a tight-knit organisation striving to gain political power. in this context, the decision to add 25 new meps seems to me to be an artificial step, which does not come from below, from the needs and wishes of the electorate, but reflects the wishes of a group of eurofederalists who are trying to push the eu towards a federal state with a single political and electoral system. the solution adopted remains in many respects half-way. it does not guarantee that all member states will be represented among the 25 pan-european meps, and the number 25 does not even correspond to the number of member states. it is more of a symbolism, but it is the symbolism that has traditionally played a major role in shaping citizens' relationship with the eu, which is why i am surprised that the authors of the proposal have so incomprehensibly underestimated it. voters in smaller member states in particular will have a legitimate feeling that their vote is not counted.
madam president, war crimes such as mass rape, sexual slavery and sterilization are among the worst forms of humiliation, which in the congo means the lifelong exclusion of these victims from society. it is alarming that offenders from the ranks of paramilitary groups and the military are usually not punished at all. the extension of the mandate of the blue helmets by the security council for another year is necessary, but it is also necessary that the monusco troops really start protecting civilians, that president kabila declare zero tolerance for rape and also that an impartial investigation into these crimes begins. the congolese government must have a program to reintegrate the victims into society. the commission should not only allocate funds to shelters, but also propose legislation to label products containing minerals whose extraction is a source of violence in the kivu region.
i have received one motion for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 14 september 2011. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by reinhard bütikofer, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on an effective raw materials strategy for europe (2011/2056(ini)) (a7-0288/2011).
the availability of non-energy and non-agricultural raw materials is a key condition for the transition to a sustainable economy. for example, china currently controls 97% of the world production of rare earth elements and has been systematically reducing its exports since 2005, while the growth of world demand is driving up its prices. the commission has not established that the chinese exporting producers are in a position to export the product concerned to the union market. it is therefore clear that a strategy for the efficient use of raw materials will define the competitiveness of european industry. we need to focus on reusing and recycling the material that is already available. for example, recovering aluminium from recycling is 95% more economical than producing it from new material. millions of tonnes of potentially usable material lie in european landfills. an effective waste policy is not just an ecological symbol, but above all a prerequisite for ensuring resource independence. there is no guarantee that development policy will not become a diplomatic tool for getting raw materials from developing countries with large reserves. the so-called raw materials diplomacy threatens to give rise to a hidden neo-colonialism, which sees countries with vast reserves as mere exporters of raw materials. europe is asleep at this moment and it is necessary to take such measures as soon as possible to ensure that there is enough strategic raw materials for it technologies and equipment, renewable energy and other key sectors. it is no longer just an environmental problem, it is also about the economic freedom of europe.
madam president, i believe that mediation, as well as other alternative dispute resolution methods, is a useful thing. its benefits are undeniable. i would like to emphasise the main advantage of mediation, which is to achieve a peaceful solution acceptable to both parties. on the other hand, there are also many disadvantages associated with mediation. its main characteristic, voluntariness, can also act as a negative aspect. the other party cannot be forced to complete the process to the final form. the adoption in 2008 by the european parliament and the council of a directive on certain aspects of mediation in civil and commercial matters, after four years of painstaking negotiations, in my view broke another taboo on european integration. while this directive does not aim to harmonise or even create a single set of rules for mediation across the european union, it does regulate the field of mediation. at the same time, it indirectly creates pressure on states that have no regulation of the mediation process at all. article 5 also allows for the use of mediation to be made compulsory, which in my view is contrary to the fundamental principle of mediation, namely its voluntariness. like mediation itself, the european directive does not only bring positive results. all eu member states should now have measures in place to transpose eu legislation into their own law. however, nine countries, including the czech republic, have not yet notified all the national measures necessary to fully implement the directive. why is that? it should be noted that mediators in the czech republic are already operating, but they work on the basis of a professional certificate as advisors. the mediation law was discussed by parliament once, several years ago, but the mps did not approve the proposal. they were taught the passage that couples unable to agree on a settlement would have to use the services of a mediator. in mid-june this year, the government approved a draft new law on mediation in non-criminal matters. the controversial points of the draft law included, for example, the insurance of mediators, the way in which they were tested, or what qualification requirements mediators should meet. we have to wait for some time for the legal regulation of mediation in non-criminal cases like this in the czech republic. the question must be asked whether it is necessary for european regulation to put pressure on the states to accept something that works in those states and which should in principle be voluntary.
- advanced technological development, the development of more advanced means of production or technologically sophisticated products opens up possibilities not only for their use but also for their misuse for purposes other than those for which they are intended. the control of this type of goods and their classification under international control regimes is not only a sensitive commercial issue but also, by its very nature, a security issue. i believe that it is appropriate to promote effective and transparent control regimes that allow the monitoring of international trade in such technologies that could be misused for military purposes and in particular for the development and production of weapons of mass destruction. but i also add that transparency, design and efficiency should be the basis.
in writing. − i welcome the establishment of a public regulated service (prs) to be offered under the european galileo satellite navigation programme, the continuity of which is to be ensured in particular in severe crisis situations. since non-compliance with security rules may also have an impact on other participants and users (e.g. security deficiencies could lead to unauthorised and hostile use of the prs), the use, management and control of access to the prs should be based on common standards. i believe that the agreed safety mechanism offers the necessary balance between defining common minimum standards and enforcement at eu level on the one hand and decentralising the existing control function of the member states on the other. given that participation in the prs is voluntary for each member state and that member states decide independently on the nature of the use of the prs and whether users should pay for this service (it should be borne in mind that the gps signal is free of charge), it would seem fair to me that only those member states participating in the prs should cover the national operating costs.
in writing. − i was the shadow rapporteur of the epp on this legislation within the security and defence subcommittee and i am pleased that the eu council and the european parliament have managed to agree on the details of the operation of the galileo public regulated service. i am pleased that my proposal for guarantees of respect for human rights, including religious freedoms, by third countries wishing to use this service has been implemented despite the opposition of some member states. no totalitarian and authoritarian country will be able to participate in the project. however, i also draw attention to the risk that some of the galileo frequencies could be jammed by the chinese navigation system compass and i ask the european commission to address this issue in bilateral negotiations with china. i also appreciate the high level of data and privacy protection and security standards, which, contrary to the european commission's proposal, have been successfully enforced after pressure from the european parliament. unfortunately, the financing has not been finalised, and the european commission has yet to prepare any proposals for charging for the use of the service. on the contrary, it is positive that the european producers will retain exclusivity for the production of safety modules. as a doctor, i welcome the possibilities this service will bring to the integrated emergency system, including shorter response times for emts.
in writing. − i supported the report because i believe that the conditions of women approaching retirement age need to be highlighted and that this group of very vulnerable people in this age group should be given due, non-discriminatory attention, whether in the context of demographic trends, employment, pay conditions, pension provision, health care, etc. the feminization of poverty at retirement age is, unfortunately, a reality. the report highlights a number of serious phenomena, which is why i welcome it and have voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. parliament's plenary today adopted an own-initiative report on the implementation of directive 2008/52/ec of 21 may 2008 on certain aspects of mediation in civil and commercial matters. this directive provides for the establishment of a mediation institution with a wide range of dispute resolution applications. the mediation procedure envisaged by the directive is an amicable, out-of-court settlement of a dispute between the parties, with the ongoing mediation procedure interrupting the running of limitation and prescription periods. it does not in any way restrict the rights of all to a judicial settlement of the dispute, but rather motivates the parties to resolve the dispute through mediation. it turns out that where states have introduced mediation, there has been a significant decrease in litigation. unfortunately, the report adopted by parliament reveals that the czech republic, together with austria, finland and sweden, has not yet transposed the directive into law, which is very surprising, especially in view of the czech government's stated efforts to speed up judicial proceedings. the overload of czech courts in civil disputes is alarming. the report notes that in italy, romania and bulgaria in particular, the introduction of mediation under this directive has led to a significant reduction in the number of court disputes and, for example, in bulgaria, up to one third of all disputes are resolved through mediation. i supported that report with the intention of calling on the czech government to start working urgently on the harmonisation of the czech legal order and to introduce a mediation procedure, in the light of the very positive experience of mediation in other member states.
in writing. - the eu is highly dependent on imports for a wide range of raw materials. the commission considered that the chinese exporting producers were not in a position to provide sufficient evidence of the existence of the subsidy. in this context, the raw materials initiative is an important first step. the eu needs to develop a coherent and targeted strategy with firm priorities, especially for the most critical types of raw materials. to this end, the european commission should distinguish between focusing on the raw materials initiative and on commodity markets, and in addition, it should establish a working group on raw materials linking all relevant directorates-general. such an inter-agency working group should identify priority actions for critical raw materials such as rare earths and can ensure strategic coherence. france and the united states already have such working groups. in this context, the creation of an innovation partnership focusing on raw materials is becoming more urgent. another key aspect that needs to be better embedded in the european commission's raw materials initiative is substitution. the eu should establish mutually beneficial partnerships that bring mutual benefits to resource-rich countries and to the eu itself. in addition to the eu-africa partnership, the eu should also promote partnerships with countries in eastern europe, latin america, asia, the united states and japan.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, when i was elected to the european parliament more than seven years ago, i thought i knew something about energy and the issues surrounding it, that i was well-versed in it and that i understood it in principle. after my first term in brussels, i realized i knew almost nothing. and in this second term in parliament, i have a growing feeling that i'm beginning to lose sight of that. why would you do that? because the main idea that i hear all the time, over and over again, is that liberalization is supposed to bring cheaper energy prices to consumers. but i have to say, in seven years, that's never happened. if so, please correct me. and yet, under this central slogan of a more stable, more reliable and cheaper energy supply, we are constantly adopting new and new rules. in the end, overall globalisation and market liberalisation do not ensure more reliable and cheaper energy. in the end, the main costs are always borne by the citizens as consumers. unlike the big players in the market, who can't complain about the small profits. the document presented is rather technical and complex and i cannot help feeling that it is best oriented and influenced by the major players in the european energy market, namely the large member states. however, it is also a fact that the report contains elements of enhanced transparency, which colleagues have already spoken about. it's also because of the reporter's work, which i would like to rate highly and appreciate, because it was extremely challenging. as is the fact that energy markets are cross-border, certain rules are necessary. in the itre committee we made a number of amendments to the commission's proposal to focus even more on preventing abuses and manipulation in the wholesale energy market. despite all this, we still have a lot of work to do in this field. for example, because there is no pan-european energy market yet, because it is not interconnected, and because we cannot, or only to a limited extent, react flexibly and effectively to possible crisis situations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 14 september 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the joint debate on better legislation with three reports:– the report by eva lichtenberger, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the twenty-seventh annual report on monitoring the application of european union law (2009) (2011/2027(ini)) (a7-0249/2011),– the report by sajjad karim, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on better legislation, subsidiarity and proportionality and smart regulation (2011/2029(ini)) (a7-0251/2011), and– the report by judith sargentini, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on public access to documents (rule 104(7)) for the years 2009-2010 (2010/2294(ini)) (a7-0245/2011).
mr president, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their excellent report and their work, and in particular my colleague mr karim. i too am very concerned that the commission will not be able to deliver on its commitment to reduce the administrative burden by the 25% target by 2012. i therefore place high expectations on the edmund stoiber group, whose mandate has been extended until the end of 2012. the group is due to publish a major report on best practices and the easiest way of implementing european law in the member states in november this year. this report could speed up the process of reducing bureaucracy in order to achieve the original aim of reducing administrative burdens. the commission itself is not the major obstacle to reducing bureaucracy and administrative burden, but the european parliament and the member states, which lack qualified methodological support for the implementation of european law. i feel that the commission lacks a strong partner on the european parliament's side to fight bureaucracy. we should therefore consider setting up a european parliament committee on the removal of bureaucratic burdens.
mr president, leading economists agree that the main problems of the european market are in particular excessive regulation, administrative, bureaucratic and legislative obstacles, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. instead of creating a business-friendly environment and encouraging human activity, we're on our way to becoming the world's champions in regulating everything. this is also demonstrated by the european union's efforts to regulate, for example, so-called cookies, which paradoxically do not refer to cookies, but to information about the internet user stored in the temporary memory of the computer. the question most frequently asked, however, as to what should or should not be regulated in european policy, does not, in my view, go to the heart of the matter. it's more about why and whether to regulate at all. i therefore believe that for every newly proposed standard, the european commission should provide an impact assessment, including what would happen if regulation did not exist.
in writing. the issue of public access to eu documents should also be covered by the public consultations launched by the commission. the vast majority of these are only available in english, which in my view limits the ability of citizens from other speaking countries to express themselves fully on the topics of the public consultation. the accessibility of public consultations in general should also be improved, because if we want the widest possible participation of the public in the decision-making process, which was, among other things, one of the main requirements resulting from the consultation of the priorities of the single market act proposals, we should create the corresponding, not just the formal, conditions for this.
in writing. the current unflattering situation in the peripheral euro area countries calls for further consideration. one of the prerequisites for european integration was the establishment of a single internal market within the eu based on the principle of the four freedoms, to which the single currency, the euro, was also intended to contribute. however, over time it has proved difficult to create a monetary union without an adequate fiscal and institutional framework. i believe that a comprehensive solution to the current crisis should address the following three areas: the financial sector, fiscal policy and the competitiveness of the emu and the eu respectively. first, there must be a restoration of confidence in the eu financial sector, where the key roles should be played by both the ecb (providing liquidity to banks or buying government bonds) and the eba, the banking regulator, which should, among other things, guarantee the credibility of the eu banks' stress testing. second, eu fiscal policies should be strengthened by the issuance of eurobonds and the introduction of the ftt (including a stronger role for the ep and national parliaments in this process). third, in the long term, sustainable economic development and the eu's competitiveness will be important. the euro plus pact will need to be strictly adhered to, including an emphasis on the efficiency of the allocation of european funds after 2014, and also the conditions of conditionalities. overall, i believe that the eu has the tools to deal with this situation and that it will be able to successfully tackle this crisis.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we might have different views on different issues in this chamber, but i hope that we can all agree on one thing: that europe is a continent of tolerance, of freedom and of pluralism. we have united in the past to fight those who stand for intolerance and oppression, and to resist those who wanted to destroy our open and democratic society; now we have to stand united again. the promotion of hatred, of fear and of violence has no place in europe. let me express on behalf of my entire group my deepest sadness over the terrible and brutal criminal act of 22 july. our thoughts and hearts go out above all to the relatives of the victims, but also to the entire people of norway and, last but not least, to our socialist colleagues, to whose political family these innocent young people belonged. mr president, you yourself reminded us of the anniversary of 9/11 a few moments ago. in that particular case we quite rightly stressed, in the strongest terms possible, that although those terrorists carried out acts in the name of religion, they did not represent any religion or its followers. i think that we should look at the norwegian tragedy from a very similar angle. the individual who committed this represented no-one: no religion, no relevant political stream, just his own sick mind. i think we should resist the temptation to use this opportunity to politicise this tragedy. (applause)i would like to thank all my colleagues from other political groups who resisted this temptation, who showed decency and who displayed once again that there are universal values common to all of us for which we can stand together. (applause)
in writing. − i welcome the commission's proposal to prevent abuse of the energy market. however, i consider it a mistake that it does not include co2 markets within the eu ets. significant players in the carbon markets, in particular power companies, are also participants in wholesale electricity and gas markets. gas and electricity markets are also linked to and affected by developments in the oil and coal markets. however, oil and coal markets are global in nature and cannot be adequately regulated at eu level. the market participants in this market should be invited to provide information without being subject to controls and enforcement mechanisms. the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators should be provided with sufficient financial and human resources and should be able to establish liaison offices close to the places where significant transactions are concluded. in addition, the agency could in future act as a trade repository for energy-related financial transactions. this would simplify the work of energy traders as they would not have to provide entries in the financial sector trade repository established under the european market infrastructure regulation (emir).
i would like to stress, madam president, first of all, that i consider it of the utmost importance to maintain a coordinated and uniform approach by both the european institutions and the individual member states in the discussion of the various items on the agenda for next year's world radiocommunication conference. this is in particular a common approach to promote the uptake and protection of mobile technologies and services in the context of the exploitation of the digital dividend in the 800 mhz band, to enable the implementation of the sesar project for unified air traffic management and to create the conditions for a faster uptake of mobile technologies for networks referred to as 4g. this will allow the necessary speed increase in access to internet services. there is also a need to create the conditions for the deployment of technologies for the protection of the european galileo satellite navigation system and other air navigation services, for the development and deployment of intelligent transport systems, scientific research and climate monitoring and earth observation services. in this respect, it is also necessary to repress efforts to increase the number of global regulatory measures. ladies and gentlemen, the use of radio spectrum is becoming increasingly global and strategic in terms of the all-round development of society. the outcome of this conference will therefore undoubtedly have a major impact, in particular on the further development of high-speed wireless technologies and services, and will have a practical impact on the quality and conditions of life in our towns and cities.
in writing. the use and management of radio spectrum is a strategic policy and a limited resource. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the objective of radio spectrum policy is to create a competitive and sustainable wireless broadband industry. the adequate allocation of spectrum, which should be in the interests of the majority of citizens, is problematic. it is easy to be misused by different economic operators and therefore control of its allocation and use is necessary in this context. i welcome the long-term agenda of this policy and its strategic commitment to provide adequate legal certainty at high initial development costs. i support the creation of harmonised frequency bands, the release of spectrum in the 790mhz to 862mhz range for mobile broadband by 2013 and the improvement of conditions for higher capacity frequencies. europe must not forget the further development of the radio spectrum in the wake of the rapid development of conventional mobile communications. it is essential for the european union to keep up with the rest of the world and to remain fully competitive in this area as well.
in writing. the report on the european parliament recommendation to the council, the commission and the european external action service for the negotiation of an association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova seeks to set priorities for the possible future association of moldova and the launch of deeper cooperation with the eu. in the areas of foreign and security policy, energy and trade cooperation, most of the negotiating chapters have already been successfully concluded. however, further improvement is still hampered by the different standards of moldova compared to the eu. it is requested that a dcfta negotiation programme be established, which should aim at removing barriers to bilateral trade and investment and differences between technical, hygienic and phytosanitary standards. in this context, i welcome the transnational initiatives within the eastern partnership, in particular on customs cooperation. however, the dispute over the transnistrian region and the ongoing internal problems in moldova currently prevent the development of even deeper cooperation. i welcome the report as a whole, as it seeks to assess the value of cooperation between the european union and moldova and also highlights the many difficulties that hinder its further development. for these reasons, i shall vote in favour of this recommendation.
before we come to the first item on this afternoon’s agenda on belarus, i give the floor to véronique de keyer for a very brief but important statement.
mr president, i also want to join the voices that are calling for an ever-better respect for human rights in belarus. every state must abide by the human rights conventions it has signed. i also believe that the european union has a duty to draw attention to any violation of human rights. i too wish the laws were humane and strictly enforced. but don't you think we're still looking in one direction? i would remind you that last may, an israeli commando strike in international waters against a humanitarian convoy killed nine and injured 60 turkish civilians. i recall that in january this year, two people were shot dead by police during anti-government demonstrations in albania, and many others were injured. the protesters demanded new elections. i remind you that in may of this year, several member states of the european union launched an undeclared war against libya. the civilian death toll from the bombing and insurgent actions supported by some of the union states will now be in the hundreds, perhaps thousands. when will the european parliament address these tragedies? doesn't it seem to you that we're succumbing to an organized campaign against belarus at a time when there are other threats? let me make two little technical remarks. firstly, the un declaration on human rights defenders was not adopted in 1988, but on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights, ten years later than the pathetic preamble to the proposed text of the resolution states. you have to be more careful. secondly, i'm sad that there are so few of us here when it comes to human rights. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8))
i would like us not to use the double standard we use with all the countries we try to deal with. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8))
i'm afraid those who hugged him were more supportive. i personally don't have a positive relationship with him.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolution on sudan: situation in southern kordofan and blue nile state see minutes..
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolution on eritrea: the case of dawit isaak see minutes..
for the ppe group. mr. chairman, the case of prisoner dawit isaak is just the tip of the iceberg of brutal human rights abuses in one of the youngest countries in the world. even in times of economic crisis, we must not give up on the fight for human rights in third countries. the european council did well to follow the un in imposing sanctions on the eritrean regime last year. the eu's ambassador to eritrea, ms paola amadei, should personally request the release of dawito isaak from the eritrean regime, not just because he is a citizen of the european union. only with the joint pressure of all europe will we achieve the release of a man who has not been charged or convicted. of course, let's not forget the thousands of other victims of the eritrean regime. the sanctions that have been implemented so far are insufficient.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
i adjourn the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.40 p.m.)
madam president, commissioner, i think it is quite clear that innovation and technological progress are the driving forces behind all economic progress. however, in the context of the report, two things must, or at least i must, make us think more deeply, two points which i will take the liberty of quoting here and of expressing my opinion on them. first, as regards individual projects and their approval and support: the business plan and market potential are positive factors to be taken into account but not a necessary condition for approval. what else but the market and market enforcement can encourage innovation and invention? what parameters other than profit are to be taken into account? there's nothing derogatory about the words "profit" and "marketing". on the contrary, they are the engines of overall progress. secondly, and i've just run out of time, which i'm very sorry about, but i'm going to respect the one minute i've been given.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tourism generates about 10% of the european union's gdp and employs some 12 million workers. in addition to these figures, it should be noted that european destinations are regularly among the most visited and also the most popular countries. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism and the development of the tourism sector. in particular, the bric countries are already showing an increase in travel to the european union. data published by eurostat show that visits from the russian federation increased by 18%, from china by 19%, and from brazil by 46% compared to the first half of 2009 and 2010. china has the most potential of these countries in the long run. the country of 1.3 billion people increased its outbound tourism spending by 21 percent in 2009, according to world tourism organization statistics. however, in order to fully exploit this growing potential, we need to provide tourists with easier visa policies, such as tourist group visas, and to promote individual tourism. at the same time, the seasonal nature of tourism needs to be phased out and the europe brand introduced as a year-round destination that can offer both natural, cultural and industrial heritage. i am very pleased that the commission has taken this step, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fidanza, for his excellent report.
in writing. tourism accounts for 10% of the european union's gdp and provides jobs and livelihoods for 12% of european citizens. the aim of the project is to develop a european tourism strategy that will enable tourism to be more effective in its contribution to the development of the european economy. to promote the sustainability and competitiveness of european tourism, it is necessary to work on the education and training of people working in the tourism sector and to invest in innovation and new technologies. in this context, i consider the erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme to be a suitable tool for developing new skills and abilities of young people who should then be able not only to provide for themselves but also to create jobs for others in their environment. it is essential for european tourism to gradually extend its seasonality. the calypso programme could be an appropriate means of ensuring access to tourism in the off-season for certain categories of persons (young, elderly, disabled). in the present rushed times, there will be an increasing interest in rural and agro-tourism, nature tourism and spa and health tourism in the future. we need to be prepared for this change and european tourism offers adequate leisure opportunities not only to european citizens.
in writing. tourism is one of the most important factors in the tertiary sector and is a sector whose absorption capacity has not yet been adequately appreciated by the individual countries of the european union. it is good that more and more actors are involved in this sector and that the european commission and the european parliament have recently paid attention to it. in particular, the changing composition of the population, whether in europe or worldwide, brings a number of new opportunities for tourism. there are significant groups (disabled, retired) that place special demands on tourism operators. in recent years, there has been a lot of talk about social tourism, and new customer segments are emerging in developing countries. all this places great demands on the eu as one of the most important destinations in terms of improving the skills structure of the sector's workforce, promoting the diversification of the tourist offer and coordinating the development of the entire sector. the 21 steps outlined in the fidanza report can provide a good basis for concrete action by individual member states and for coordinated efforts at european union level. in particular, new 'trademarks' and innovations in the packages offered for various types of 'roads', whether combined transport or cycling, road, rail or water transport, can be a significant impetus for further development of the sector. the eu must step up its efforts to maintain its position as the world's number one destination.
in writing. the report seeks to provide a very comprehensive overview of the experience gained during the current programming period with the mobilisation of funds under cohesion policy. the rapporteur, in my view, has very rightly identified the three fundamental shortcomings on the part of cohesion policy beneficiaries. this is due to a lack of financial resources for co-financing, a lack of human resources and a lack of administrative support necessary for the proper use of the available funds. the rapporteur rightly points out the difficulties at the beginning of each new programming period, which are accompanied by difficulties in the implementation of the management and control system, which is usually caused by delays in the development and implementation of eu and member state rules or related guidelines and by incomplete or inaccurate rules for the use of cohesion policy funds. very often, the problems are caused by insufficient allocation of competences between the authorities in the member states, problems with the hierarchy of the institutions and internal problems with the allocation of tasks and responsibilities. i personally find it very important that the rapporteur points out that there is a need to focus more on the fight against fraud than on the fight against formal irregularities. in conclusion, i would like to underline the crucial importance of the timely adoption of the multiannual financial framework and of clear and definitive rules and guidelines for the member states. the experience presented in the report is also relevant for the czech republic.
i supported mrs gardini's report because it strengthens coordination in the areas of preparation, capacity planning and implementation of both civil protection and humanitarian aid. this means, in particular, closer cooperation with ngos, which are often present at the scene of disasters, in the case of humanitarian aid. the logistics sector is a particularly pressing problem in the rapid and joint response to the crisis, and i would welcome concrete suggestions for improvement. i also see a path forward in linking existing monitoring centres and mapping member states' capacities for different types of crises. at the same time, however, i am convinced that greater eu coordination must not 'compete' with the un's global coordinating role, but should, on the contrary, support it. the responsibility of member states, in particular in external humanitarian aid, should also be emphasised. i therefore consider it important that european emergency response capacities are for the time being under the sole command of the sending member state or the affected member state, respectively, and not under the command of the european emergency response centre. as regards the visibility of eu symbols in aid, i only wish that it should be kept within reasonable limits and not consume a significant part of the allocated funds.
i supported the report by rapporteur koch on the european road safety strategy 2011-2020 because the safety situation on european roads remains critical and requires a rapid and, above all, a consistent response. every year, more than 35 000 people die on european roads and 1.5 million are seriously injured. i therefore support this own-initiative report and call on the commission to come forward with concrete legislative proposals in this area as soon as possible. we should focus on improving safety on second and third class roads in europe, where more than 70% of road accidents occur on average every year. i also support the rapporteur's objective, the so-called vision zero, which is to end fatal accidents on european roads. if we cannot prevent accidents from happening, let us at least prevent them from being fatal. 'vision zero' applies to air and rail transport, and i fully support the introduction of this ambition in road transport.
in writing. recommendation for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and the palestinian authority of the west bank and the gaza strip on the liberalization of trade in agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products, establishing duty-free and quota-free access to the european market for these products imported from the territory of the palestinian authority. in contrast, some eu products will have duty-free access to the palestinian market, but will be subject to ceiling quotas for their import. i understand that the main objective of this agreement is to promote the development of the palestinian economy, to facilitate the possibility of exporting palestinian products to the eu and thus to help improve the economic development of the region. that's why i accept inequality of conditions. in this context, it is necessary to ensure that the rules on the country of origin of products are not abused in the application of the agreement, given that european citizens require to know the origin of the products they consume. in its judgments, the european court of justice considers the gaza strip and the west bank to be palestinian territory, i.e. that israel cannot apply the products of israeli settlements in these areas as israeli goods. we certainly cannot try to resolve the palestinian-israeli issue in this report, which is primarily aimed at helping farmers and fishermen in the area to export and sell products legally. the report as a whole is a contribution, which is why i shall vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. − i believe that the common strategic framework should not be limited to research and technology-based innovation, but should encourage different sources of innovation. many companies, especially smes, tap into other sources of innovation such as customers, markets, users and, not least, employees, and this form of innovation is often more practical and focused on addressing specific issues related to processes, services or products. the solutions proposed are often found by the employees closest to the production process, markets and customers. the eu should therefore foster innovation that is practical and based on the experience and input of employees. collaborative research funding should offer greater thematic flexibility and user-friendly funding mechanisms to attract top scientists for projects and to respond to the needs of large and small groups. this should cover the whole innovation chain, from research activities to large-scale pilot projects and demonstration activities. i also express my doubts about the effectiveness of the use of funds for the creation of research networks of excellence and the organisation of conferences and events, and i support, on the contrary, the strengthening of measures for the electronic interconnection of research and innovation and the dissemination of research results via the internet.
in writing. the report seeks to highlight current problems with european schools, which are set up to provide education for the children of european union officials. this specific education system allows students to study all subjects in a multicultural and multilingual environment and with qualified teachers, while maintaining their mother tongue. european schools are a great example of education based on a proven approach to teaching and are an example of one of the best possible forms of teaching in europe based on the dissemination of european culture, values and languages. one of the current challenges is the need for greater compatibility of european schools' curricula with national education systems in order to facilitate the rapid integration of students returning to their countries of origin. the report also seeks to address the unfortunate situation in which the european schools currently find themselves, in a legal vacuum, which is manifested by the unclear legal and jurisdictional status of acts adopted by the bodies of these schools, the lack of possibilities to challenge these acts before national courts and the impossibility of appealing to the european ombudsman. i supported the report for the reasons i have given.
in writing. in the context of the future form of cohesion policy, attention should be focused, inter alia, on public-private partnerships at regional and local level, which, due to their flexibility, could solve co-financing difficulties. the commission should examine the existence and functionality of the legal framework for the implementation of public and private sector projects and, where appropriate, recommend to member states which have not yet adopted such a legal framework, to develop and adopt as soon as possible procedures for their effective implementation at regional and local level, taking into account the possibility of drawing on the structural funds and the cohesion fund in the next programming period for these projects. i find it worrying that most smes cannot draw on the structural funds themselves, because of the current administrative and financial obstacles and because they need support and advice from their representative organisations. i consider simplification of rules and procedures to be a necessary condition for smes to have access to the structural funds. the small business act and its 'think small first' and 'once only' principles and the principle of proportionality should be applied at all levels of decision-making to define investment priorities and the design of management, audit and control procedures to ensure better use of funds.
in writing. − i believe that we should first of all build on existing monitoring and prevention tools, such as on-site monitoring facilities and the tools of the european global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) or the inspire and galileo programmes, which can monitor potentially vulnerable areas in order to prepare more effectively for providing assistance to disaster victims. the commission should assess the possibility of equipping the eu with its own secure telecommunications capacity and integrated crisis management solutions, from prevention to recovery. i see considerable potential in using existing telecommunications satellite capacity to facilitate the development of public safety and emergency services for citizens, in cooperation with the european space agency, member states and stakeholders such as private operators or industry. it is the commission's task, in particular by means of telecommunications, including satellite communications, to create a communication and information system that would provide rescue teams with rapid access to accurate information enabling them to effectively recover from the consequences of disaster events. given that disaster prevention is often more cost-effective than disaster response, a comprehensive and innovative eu strategy for disaster risk reduction is needed and sufficient resources should be allocated to the early identification of potential disasters.
in writing. − setting criteria and involving mechanisms to make the supervision of dual-use goods more effective are one part of this issue. i would therefore like to remind you that you should also not forget about improving the quality of information and training of traders in this type of goods. to ensure that sufficient up-to-date and understandable information based on good legislation is available and that procedures are clear to all stakeholders: control authorities, traders and others. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that transparency, conceptuality and efficiency should be the basis.
in writing. - personally, i'm a big advocate of improving road safety. unfortunately, i am not convinced of the correctness of the proposed measures to improve road safety. i am very concerned about the proposals to implement intelligent speed assistance system technology, which is only a short step away from being deployed to build a big brother. i would hate to see some central european brain dictating which communications the driver can take, or dictating the speed at which he drives. i'm concerned about the idea of technology taking responsibility for the decisions and actions of individuals. although the idea of having drivers take a breathalyzer test before they start driving is useful, i see the mandatory installation of alcohol locks in cars as a bad joke from a sci-fi movie. the questions that the mandatory deployment of these technologies would raise, in particular the resolution of liability for the malfunctioning of these systems, are not answered at all. we must also not forget the increased costs that these technologies entail. for example, for low-income groups, buying a new car will become even less affordable than it is now. we must also not forget the impact that the mandatory deployment of these technologies will have on smes. i believe that more than these technologies, education, raising safety standards and improving transport infrastructure can contribute to greater road safety.
in writing. the world and the balance of power in international trade are changing dramatically. while the eu accounted for 25% of world gdp in 2000, it is forecast to account for only 18% by 2020. in contrast, china and india, the two countries with the largest populations, continue to grow, both in terms of gdp and population. to remain a global player and thus a co-determining force in the future, it is essential that the eu responds to these changes and develops a long-term strategy for european trade policy. the report on trade policy in the context of the europe 2020 strategy critically assesses the commission's communication of november 2010. i agree with the rapporteur that this communication is more a set of guidelines than a comprehensive eu strategy for trade policy that could meet the challenges of a changing world economy. the ep adopted the 'global europe' strategy, which is based on the principle of 'europe for europe'. the objectives of this strategy have not yet been achieved. i welcome and endorse the rapporteur's call to the commission and the member states. an analysis is needed to identify why many of the targets have not been met and to draw conclusions from this. we endorse a number of opinions, statements and guidelines without any retroactive consideration of their functioning and effectiveness. but in the field of international trade, it is a necessity. i fully support the report presented by mr caspary.
for the ecr group. mr. chairman, my question will be very simple. we have eurozone members in the european union, we have non-eurozone members. there should be rules for eurozone members, because the euro is simply not for everyone. the euro requires certain criteria to be met. my country is not a member of the eurozone, but i certainly do not want the european single currency to collapse. so i ask you, do you accept the possibility that in order to save the single european currency, one or more countries will eventually have to leave the european monetary union in order to devalue their own currency and emerge from the economic crisis, because that is not possible in the current situation? so the question is whether you allow the possibility of either voluntary or involuntary exit of one or more countries from the euro area.
for the ecr group. i thank you, i was expecting something like this, mr. president. so let me ask you a second question. the second question is directed at non-euro area members. do you accept the possibility that those countries that are not yet members of the euro area and do not have a negotiated permanent exemption like the uk does, should be given the opportunity to reconsider their desire to join the euro area in the current situation? because countries like my country signed the accession agreement, where they committed themselves to adopt the euro, in a very different situation than the one we have today.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i think that everything that contributes to the development of peaceful relations and cooperation in europe should be supported. while i am not sure of the transparency of the motives of the architects of the eastern partnership concept, i would like to believe that the upcoming summit will strengthen european unity and not lead to the creation of some new sanitary cordon around russia. i would like the european union negotiators to pack their suitcases before they go to warsaw with a commitment to unite europe from ireland to the urals and to help solve problems such as the low growth of some of the partner countries. and also a commitment to help resolve disputes like the one over nagorno-karabakh. i would greatly appreciate it if the negotiators for the european union would learn to listen to their partners and not be compelled to advise them all the time.
madam president, allow me to speak on the subject of the growing tension between turkey and the republic of cyprus as the coordinator of the parliamentary group at the highest level for relations with the turkish cypriot community in the northern part of the island of cyprus, which is unfortunately still divided. as commissioner füle has mentioned, negotiations between the highest representatives of greek cypriots and turkish cypriots on reunification have been ongoing for more than two years, so far without success. these negotiations, which are being actively assisted by un secretary-general ban ki-moon and his special envoy, alexander downer, are entering their final phase in the coming days and weeks. and there's a lot at stake. either a mutually satisfactory and reasonable solution to this longstanding dispute is found, or the changes in the middle east will lead to a final and permanent partition of cyprus with fatal consequences for both greek and turkish cypriots. i would therefore like to appeal again from this place to the representatives of both communities, president christofias and dr eroğlu, to concentrate on the successful conclusion of the negotiations and not to take any steps that would lead to further escalation of tensions. it is in the interest of both communities to reach a lasting and reasonable compromise so that the cypriots can jointly decide the fate of cyprus, including its mineral wealth in the coastal waters.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, how are you, president barroso, how do you feel? i must admit i feel a lot of sympathy for you because i genuinely believe that you are aware that the situation is serious. at the same time, i have to admit that i do not share many of your views. i agree with you that fiscal consolidation, curbing of public expenditure and financial rigour are necessary because markets are very sensitive and markets at the moment do not forgive any mistake. however, good intentions are not enough. let us make one thing clear: the euro currency was imposed on states of different development, different purchasing power, different gdp per capita, different living standards, different budgeting and different levels of competitiveness. it was done purely for political and ideological reasons because the euro should have served as a tool for further integration, not primarily as a single currency per se. (interjection from mr cohn-bendit) then came public overspending, lack of discipline, and this directed some countries to the verge of collapse. in normal situations at such a time countries would devalue their currencies to cope with those consequences but, of course, as members of the eurozone, they cannot do that because they are not allowed to do so. so the only solution remaining are firstly bail-outs, more bail-outs and even more bail-outs, or whatever you want to call them, and secondly, transition of monetary union into a fiscal union and, thus, most importantly the debt union. the logic of the first step, the bail-out step, is that the debts of some will be paid by the others, and the second step will mean a further shift of national power to the european level and further diminishing of the role of member states. mr verhofstadt might like it, i very much doubt that most members of his own group like it as much as he does but, again, the most important thing is whether the people of europe like it and whether it will help to promote more pro-european thinking amongst european nations. if you think that it does, you are wrong, ladies and gentlemen. i can tell you in my own country a recent poll has shown that 75% of people are against joining the euro, and do you really think that this is a result of some anti-european propaganda? no, it is not a result of anti-european propaganda, it is just a result of people who see and think. they simply do not buy into this idea any more of a federal europe – that is very simple. i ask you frankly, president barroso, do you concede that it may come to a situation where, as the only solution to the current problems, it might be that one or more of the eurozone members would have to leave the monetary union? secondly, would you admit that some other still non-eurozone members could re-evaluate their thoughts about joining the eurozone or not? please do not get me wrong. if it comes to that, my feeling is that it will not mean the fall of the euro, because none of us wishes that, but the mentality of the euro at all costs is precisely the way to destroy the euro. i understand that, if it comes to a reduction of the eurozone, that might be a political disaster for those who invested a great deal of their political capital into that idea, into the idea of a united states of europe, but that is their problem. president barroso, i can agree with you when you stressed the necessity to reinforce competitiveness, to complete the single market, to improve the legal background. believe me, you achieve none of these things with an old and outdated eu framework. mr schuman, mr monnet, they were undoubtedly nice guys but their ideas are 50 years old. so please let us stop thinking in these terms because now, president barroso, unfortunately for you, you have almost no choice between bad decisions and even worse decisions. for instance, another ‘worse decision’ you came with, which you have just mentioned, is the financial transaction tax. it sounds fine at first glance, just a small fee for transactions, but in the real world such a tax will lead to only one conclusion: that countries and institutions will seriously reconsider their location and they will leave the european market and this will undermine further the european economy. it is very simple. we need a new eu paradigm for the 21st century. unfortunately, there is very little chance, almost no chance, of this new paradigm being born in this very building, in this very assembly. the longer i am here, the more i feel that this assembly is more a part of the problem rather than a part of the solution. i am sorry to say that, i am sorry for you president barroso, but anyway i wish you good luck.
after the berlin events of 1953, when the politburo of the sed issued a statement that the people had failed the politburo, bertolt brecht stated that he recommended the politburo to create another people that would not fail his trust. i have the impression from mr barros's and other speakers' speeches that the european states, the european peoples, have betrayed the commission's trust. and i therefore recommend to president barros that he create a different european people who will not betray his trust.
mr president, i had the honour of hearing your report and i would like to thank the commission as a whole for the work they have done under your leadership. you're doing a hard job in a tough time. i must also say that your report has given me a great deal of concern, alongside some positive feelings. as regards the future of the union, you mentioned the need for further integration steps. however, your next point, that not all the countries of the union will probably be able to proceed at the same speed in such a strengthening of cooperation, is already striking and even unacceptable to me. i understand that the commission is committed to the two-speed europe model, that it wants to continue to divide europeans into first and second-class citizens. i think that institutions like the european parliament or the european commission are supposed to unite europe, not divide it. i don't want to be a second-class citizen, and i don't want to be second-class. i therefore urge the commission to prepare, first and foremost, a model for a future europe that is united, not fragmented. only such a europe can succeed in global competition, can have competitive jobs, production and currency.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, perhaps for the same reasons as those which my colleague has just mentioned. sexual orientation and gender identity continue to be the cause of serious human rights violations in a number of countries. persons belonging to this minority are victims of increased discrimination and ill-treatment. in many countries, sexual orientation and gender identity are not only grounds for criminal prosecution, but also grounds for inhuman treatment, torture and even the imposition of the death penalty, which is totally unacceptable to us. such violations of human rights are incompatible with the fundamental principles of the european union and the universal declaration of human rights, according to which every person should have equal rights without any discrimination. i therefore also welcome the united nations resolution, the first of its kind to specifically address human rights violations based on sexual orientation and gender identity, thus demonstrating the universality of human rights. i support open dialogue in this area and believe that the european union should take a unified approach to the application of human rights in the conduct of its external and internal activities.
in writing. − member states whose currency is the euro should pursue economic policies that promote the proper functioning of economic and monetary union and avoid policies that threaten it. in order to ensure the proper functioning of economic and monetary union, the treaty allows for specific measures to be adopted in the euro area beyond the provisions applicable to all member states. in my view, additional sanctions are needed to make the enforcement of budgetary surveillance in the euro area more effective. those sanctions should enhance the credibility of the framework for fiscal supervision in the union. sanctions for member states whose currency is the euro under the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact should provide incentives for prudent fiscal policies. this policy should ensure that the growth rate of public expenditure does not exceed, under normal circumstances, the carefully planned medium-term growth rate of gdp. i appreciate that under the corrective arm of the stability and growth pact, the penalty for a member state whose currency is the euro is an obligation to make an interest-free deposit in the event of a council decision on the existence of an excessive deficit and an obligation to pay a fine in the event of non-compliance with the council recommendation to address the excessive deficit. i consider it useful that, if the commission decides to impose a sanction, that decision can only be reversed by a majority of member states.
in june this year, the ep adopted a legislative package containing six proposals to create a more complete framework for the management of eu economic affairs, which should lead to greater macroeconomic stability in the member states in the long term. this should also be achieved by involving the ep and national parliaments more closely in economic policy coordination procedures. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the system should be designed in such a way as to prevent asymmetric shocks and also to contribute to sustainable growth and job creation, and thus be in line with the europe 2020 strategy. although the final determination of the amount of the fine can sometimes be problematic, its amount and the way it is enforced have been established on the basis of a sensitive general political consensus. however, i have reservations about the proposed method of the possibility of imposing an interest-bearing advance before the actual sanction is imposed. overall, the report presented by mr carl haglund, which relates to the implementation of mrs ferreira's report, is a step in the right direction, but the interest-bearing advance appears to be problematic and would merit further discussion. i shall therefore abstain.
in writing. − i am of the opinion that the coordination of the economic policies of the member states within the union, as provided for in the treaty, should include respect for the main principles, including stable prices, sound public finances and monetary conditions and a sustainable balance of payments. it is certainly appropriate to complement the multilateral surveillance referred to in article 121 (3) and (4) of the treaty with specific rules for the detection, prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances. i agree that this approach will rely on an early warning mechanism that will detect emerging macroeconomic imbalances in a timely manner and will be based on the use of an indicative and transparent comparative overview combined with economic judgment. the monitoring and correction of macroeconomic imbalances with preventive and corrective elements requires enhanced control tools based on those used in the multilateral surveillance procedure. this could include, for example, enhanced monitoring missions by the commission in member states and further reporting by member states in the event of serious imbalances or imbalances threatening the proper functioning of economic and monetary union.
in writing. − the stability and growth pact is based on the objective of sound public finances, which is a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability and for strong sustainable growth supported by financial stability, which will contribute to job creation. i believe that the rules on budgetary discipline should be strengthened, in particular by placing greater emphasis on the level and evolution of debt and overall sustainability. the determination of the existence of an excessive deficit on the basis of the debt criterion and the procedure for that determination should, in my view, not be oriented exclusively towards non-compliance with the numerical reference value, but should always take into account all the decisive factors addressed in the commission's report under article 126 (3) of the treaty. the commission report under article 126 (3) of the treaty should take due account of the quality of the national fiscal framework, which plays a crucial role in promoting fiscal consolidation and sustainable public finances. in order to monitor compliance with the council recommendations and calls for the correction of the excessive deficit, i believe that they should set annual budgetary targets consistent with the required fiscal improvement after the adjustment from cyclical effects and without one-off and temporary measures.
in writing. the ep resolution is very general, accusing member states of having human rights violations related to sexual orientation and gender identity on a daily basis, but fails to give a single example. both the un report and this ep resolution are not binding documents, but it is a pity that these declaratory texts show so many errors and superficial judgments, misquote documents, deliberately remove certain rights from the human rights record and fail to give examples of violations. for these reasons, i did not support the resolution. moreover, there is no reason for such a resolution at this time.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. the 'food for free' programme has been helping people at risk of poverty for 20 years. the czech republic is one of the countries which do not support the draft regulation. in its opinion, it states that these issues require national rather than european social policy responses, including future regulations on the mobilisation of the european social fund. allowing food to be bought on the market, and thus moving away from the former main objective of the efficient use of union intervention stocks, has already put this issue off the agenda of the common agricultural policy. unfortunately, this opinion does not offer a timely solution for a programme that helps 18 million of the poorest every year. i believe that this is a fact that all actors should bear in mind when looking for a way out of the current impasse.
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on key objectives for the united nations conference on sustainable development (rio+20 summit) in rio de janeiro, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000181/2011 – b7-0436/2011), and– the oral question to the commission on key objectives for the united nations conference on sustainable development (rio+20 summit) in rio de janeiro, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000182/2011 – b7-0437/2011).
commissioner potočnik, i wish you good luck and success in new delhi.
in writing. despite article 194 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which gives member states the right to set the conditions for the use of their energy resources, the right to choose between different energy sources and to determine the basic composition of their energy supply, the green group succeeded in getting point 46 of the draft resolution on the drafting of the eu common position for the negotiations of the united nations conference on sustainable development rio+20 to be included in the second part, which calls for the phasing out of existing nuclear power plants and the halting of the construction of new nuclear power plants. such a proposal is unacceptable not only for the czech republic, which is and will be heavily dependent on nuclear energy. other member states are also counting on nuclear power and any restriction would increase dependence on fossil fuels and greenhouse gas emissions. if europe is to meet its binding climate change targets, it is necessary to use all available energy sources, including nuclear. there are risks associated with a number of other industries, and yet we do not ban oil or chemical production. instead, there is an effort to ensure the highest standards of safety and environmental protection by all available means. the rational discussion in the field of nuclear energy should focus on ensuring maximum safety and on the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel.
mr president, the ecr group will not support the proposal on the globalisation adjustment fund. the globalisation adjustment fund is a redistribution tool, which is taking money from the successful, using some of it, and allocating the rest to the unsuccessful according to our rules. success and failure are a natural part of the market. it's tempting for us politicians to give money to someone. often we forget that we are taking money from others. so instead of the successful person growing their business, they give some of their money to the unsuccessful. it is not a solidarity between the strong and the weak or the disadvantaged. practice has shown that the beneficiaries are usually very strong market players. from the very beginning of the fund, there have been doubts about where these funds are going. instead of globalisation, they often address migration between member countries and instead of the consequences of the crisis, they support planned restructuring.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not support the european commission's proposal. it appears that the member states most affected by the crisis have not benefited from the european globalisation adjustment fund. while countries with unemployment rates that were high above the eu average during the crisis did not in principle submit applications, countries that did not have more severe labour market problems benefited significantly from the fund. moreover, it should be noted that the interest in drawing on this fund has declined significantly. while there were 23 applications last year, there were only 7 this year before the holidays. this indicates that the financial crisis has now passed and the current economic difficulties are no longer the consequence of the original crisis of 2008 and 2009, but are the result of a debt crisis, which the european globalisation adjustment fund is not aiming to address. let's also admit that the globalisation adjustment fund is tied up in a lot of red tape. if we really want to continue to tackle problems of this kind with european funds, which i personally do not support, let us use the european social fund to do so.
mr president, the ongoing, alarming and daunting economic situation both in the eurozone and outside makes a serious case for decisive repudiation of the existence of the european globalisation adjustment fund. it has actually been functioning at the expense of those taxpayers who, despite the economic and financial crisis, survived within fierce global competition. having said that, i am obliged to say that pernicious consequences of the existence of this fund increase the level of redistribution, create market distortions and punish the successful. that is why i disagree with its existence.
colleagues, before we start the vote i have an announcement concerning the situation in syria. the european parliament remains gravely concerned about the situation in syria. brutal violence against the people, arbitrary arrests and detentions are unacceptable. over recent days we have also been following the case of rafah nashed, a well known syrian doctor who works with victims of psychological trauma and who sought a constructive dialogue between all syrians. she was arrested over two weeks ago for no reason at all. by no means is she a political activist. her arrest is totally inadmissible. the place of her detention remains unknown and there are fears that her health has seriously deteriorated over the past weeks. the syrian authorities must release rafah nashed immediately, as well as all the other people who have been arbitrarily detained and arrested. (loud applause)
written declaration no 0025/2011 by georgios koumoutsakos, hélène flautre, marian harkin, vittorio prodi on the establishment of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps was signed by a majority of all members of parliament. the written declaration shall be sent to all the addressees in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure and published in the texts adopted at this meeting. the names of the signatories shall be entered in the minutes.
written declaration no 0021/2011 by jelko kacin, edward mcmillan-scott, anna rosbach, györgy schöpflin, jutta steinruck on civilians wounded in war was signed by a majority of all members of parliament. the written declaration shall be sent to all the addressees in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure and published in the texts adopted at this meeting. the names of the signatories shall be entered in the minutes.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr president, we voted against the report on the future of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i think this fund is completely useless and should be abolished. aid to people affected by globalisation is and should continue to be provided at national rather than european level. the functioning of this fund in the european union creates inequality between people, because only large companies can get money from it. but small businesses and entrepreneurs are also affected by globalisation and cannot be helped by the fund. that's why i don't support the operation of this fund.
in writing. i voted against paragraph 46 of the motion for a resolution tabled by the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, even with the support of the czech member of parliament, mr miroslav ouzky. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be given the right to adopt or maintain a decision on the renewal of nuclear power stations. i've long advocated the highest safety standards in nuclear power. but i reject the anti-nuclear hysteria, which is being stirred up by green politicians in particular in connection with the fukushima disaster. this hysteria completely ignores the implications of the anti-nuclear bill. i think it is populist and hypocritical that countries which block nuclear power generation on their territory are dependent on the supply of this very type of energy from neighbouring countries.
in writing. − i am satisfied that the egf was able to help around 10% of all workers made redundant in the eu in 2009-2010 and that 40% of workers who were eligible for egf support in 2009 were successfully reintegrated into the labour market despite the negative effects of the financial and economic crisis on the labour market. however, i do not share the commission's intention to continue the egf beyond the current mff. the egf should be closely linked to the european framework for restructuring in order to enhance its contribution to effectively supporting the training and retraining of workers to re-integrate into the labour market in difficult labour market situations resulting from unforeseeable restructuring of firms or sectors that causes or exacerbates mismatches in qualifications with job requirements. such an instrument would be significantly complementary to esf-funded measures, which are aimed primarily at adapting to global challenges with a view to a sustainably growing economy. this instrument would ensure, on the one hand, eu solidarity with workers adversely affected by restructuring and, on the other, that all member states could benefit from its timely and tailor-made intervention aimed at preventing long-term unemployment.
for the ecr group. mr. chairman, i was thinking about what kind of tie to wear today, whether to wear a black tie for a funeral, i ended up wearing a gray one. maybe the black one will come up next time. but i have to say that the situation is serious, and that you are basically offering nothing different from what the nation states that you criticize so much here offer. you are offering to buy out the european union together with those who have over-indebted themselves, who have behaved irresponsibly, whether it be banks or even whole countries, and i am telling you that the european economy simply does not have the means to do that. no eurovalu is tall enough to handle this. you start this, you'll never finish. and secondly, you offer a european economic government. so you are proposing the de facto abolition of the nation state, and i think that can only be proposed by a politician who has no idea what the mood is in the member states. look at finland, look at slovakia, look at the netherlands. i think people are sick of it, mr. chairman. this is all just a warm-up for the boiler, and the boiler's gonna blow. the only right solution, the only fair solution is an economic solution, i.e. to proceed on a case-by-case basis, to allow for managed bankruptcies, to allow for devaluation, to reduce the eurozone, and for that, courage is needed. it takes courage to do that, mr. chairman, because you don't need that much courage to do the other thing. if we do not summon the courage, if the european institutions do not recover, then, ladies and gentlemen, this european parliament will be good for one thing only, to have a beethoven song sung here, a piece that is claimed to be the anthem of europe. we're not good for anything else.
madam high commissioner, the massacre of christians in cairo on sunday, which was carried out by the egyptian army, which is the de facto ruling force in egypt today, is completely unacceptable. i was surprised that in your statement on monday you did not explicitly condemn it as a criminal course that egypt must not take under any circumstances. i agree with you that there is a need to investigate the case and bring the specific culprits to justice. but since this is not the only excess against the copts, it is not enough. it's a political act. i would ask you to warn the egyptian leadership that our european support will be uncompromisingly conditional on ensuring genuine freedom of religion and that the islamization of the copts is a crime. a crime that the union's elites must take a strong stand against and not allow to be relativized. otherwise, we lose respect.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the october ii part-session. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on current developments in ukraine
for the ecr group. madam president, allow me first to address your colleague, mr olle schmidt, and ask him to convey to mrs bowles a thank you for her cooperation in this matter. this is not, i would say, a politically correct thank you, it's a human thank you for the fact that mrs bowles really did her best to take into account all the views of the individual shadow rapporteurs, and i appreciate that very much. on behalf of the european conservatives group, i agree with the increase in the additional shares and i am pleased that our comments calling for greater control of the bank by the european parliament have become part of the final compromise even after the trilogue negotiations. i am also satisfied that the final compromise on the definition of tax havens was derived from the oecd definition. we believe that the additional capital will be used wisely and support structural development in countries that need it.
madam president, i would like to raise three points. the first is to offer my congratulations and thanks to mr casa. this is not political correctness but a reflection of my personal feeling. mr casa, i know that, as an mep, you have devoted yourself for almost seven years to the problems of vat and, as far as i know, you know what you are talking about. however – and this brings me to my second point and one of my concerns – i fear that the strategy of so-called green vat, which would reduce rates for energy-efficient and environmentally friendly products and services, is likely to result in tax fraud. we all agree that fraud is unacceptable, so we should not ignore that possibility. my time is up. i will speak to mr casa personally about my third point.
madam president, i appreciate that the report pays considerable attention to the question of eliminating bureaucracy in european legislation governing vat, in particular reducing the frequency of regular vat returns. europe's population is ageing, with implications for labour markets, savings, changes in consumption patterns and the stability of public budgets. the need to focus on restructuring tax systems is clear and obvious. in this restructuring, we will have to repress the importance of direct taxation in favour of indirect taxation. but i must warn against attempts to shift responsibility for reforming tax systems from the member states to the european union. tax systems and their parameters must remain the responsibility of the member states. attempts at vat harmonisation must be firmly rejected in their embryonic form. vat harmonisation would be only the first step towards the creation of a single tax administration. for europe, it is, in the words of the classic, "a road to hell".
the functioning of the internal market, of which an efficient tax system is an important part, is also a key tool for the eu's competitiveness. for this reason, the discussion on a common vat system in the eu is a step in the right direction, see the commission's green paper on the future of vat of 1 december 2010. i therefore welcome the commission's intention to build a comprehensive vat system that would remove the vulnerability of the current system to fraud, would be sufficiently stable and resistant to fraud estimated in the eu at up to eur 100 billion per year and would also contribute to increasing the transparency and competitiveness of european businesses. the vat system in new zealand could provide some inspiration for the eu. for social reasons, i consider it important in the reform to preserve the discretion of the member states in deciding on the amount of the reduced rate of vat on selected goods. the report also contains promising conclusions and proposals (broad-based vat, a place-based vat system, vat collection methods such as a limited data warehouse model combined with a certified taxable person model). overall, the report presented by mr david casy provides a detailed analysis of the issue, refers to the relevant legislation and also contains relevant recommendations on the future of vat in the eu.
in writing. in addition to its core mission of financing investment in the eu, the european investment bank (eib) is also involved in lending outside the eu, which at the end of 2010 represented eur 9 billion, about 12% of total lending. the eib was discussed in the ep on 17 february 2011 in the context of the adopted resolution p7_ta-prov(2011) 0062, which i also supported, including 5 amendments. the most important changes relate to the increase of the ceilings by eur 1 857 million and the reinvestments of the eib, the eu objectives and their conditionality in accordance with article 208 tfeu, the 2005 paris declaration and also the 2008 accra action programme, transparency and reporting e.g. emphasis on development impact analysis, environmental and social sustainability, eib performance indicators on development, environment and human rights, etc. and longer-term prospects, e.g. for the provision of micro-credit under the new financial framework. the proposed extended eib mandate should allow for better coordination in achieving eu objectives, allow for greater accountability and transparency and better use of eu budgetary guarantees. overall, the report presented by mr kalfin follows up on the previous ep decision and reflects the proposed amendments, and i therefore recommend that it be approved as presented.
in writing. − effective and clearly defined control measures on the import, export and transit of these goods are part of the security issue. in this context, i would like to remind you that the improvement of the working conditions of the relevant inspection bodies should not be forgotten. to have a well-developed and comprehensible legislation at their disposal. i see the legislative measures being prepared and some of those already in place as an attempt to improve the supervision of trade in this type of goods, to improve the effectiveness of control systems and, in particular, to combat the illegal handling of this material.
in writing. - the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental values of the european union. i voted in favour of the resolution because i do not think it is acceptable in general to have a double standard for different countries within the framework of commonly agreed rules. whether it's the rules of the schengen area or other issues.
madam president, i welcome this report and i do not agree with the view that it is a matter for the individual member states, because whenever we try to take action at european level in the social field, some people start shouting 'subsidiarity, tradition' and we know what the consequences are. in the czech republic, for example, all schemes that enable the employment of people with disabilities are to be scrapped. the creation of protected workspaces will be prevented, and the disabled will be much worse off. this is not just a situation in my country, but also in other member states, and it is therefore necessary, if we do not want to lose the confidence of the people in the european union, to act together.
ladies and gentlemen, promoting the inclusion of people with reduced mobility is one of the priorities of the eu 2020 strategy. the european union also ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in january this year. this move is undoubtedly a sign of the eu's determination to build a barrier-free europe for some 80 million people. however, the achievement of the broadly defined objectives must be based on concrete practical steps at both the european union and the member states' level, and above all at the level of local communities. in the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism, we have long sought to ensure that people with disabilities have more accessible and tailored information about their rights to facilitate mobility. as the shadow rapporteur for the white paper on transport, i support the european commission's presentation as soon as possible of a document summarising the rights of passengers in all modes of transport, with a separate chapter on disabled people in the document. there are thousands of daily obstacles that people with disabilities have to overcome. i believe that access to information in an appropriate form is one of the prerequisites for better integration of people with disabilities into society and for removing barriers to better mobility.
madam president, commissioner, when we talk about public procurement, we also have to talk about the bottlenecks of public procurement. i think the bottleneck is the excessive bureaucracy, the legal certainty, the lack of transparency and also the lack of standardization and standardization in the awarding. i think that in this respect we should thank rapporteur rühle for the fact that the report is moving in the right direction and is a promise for future legislation. but what bothers me, as it does my colleague engel, is that only 5% of public procurement contracts are awarded electronically at european level. in doing so, the use of well-designed applications and other electronic tools can bring about greater transparency, less red tape, better application of good practice in procurement, but also greater awareness of public procurement and more competition through the strengthening of cross-border procurement.
mr president, i am sure we can all agree on the importance of smes for the economic development of the member states and thus for the stability of the european union as a whole. i really appreciate the approach of reducing and simplifying the bureaucratic burden on small business owners. i know from small business owners that this is a very positive direction. on the other hand, we must not forget the other regulatory standards adopted on the european parliament's premises. these have a very severe impact on smes. regulations for restaurants, excessive mandatory labelling and the like not only increase costs, but also reduce the competitiveness of these small businesses. the mere monitoring of changes in european legislation is a huge burden for them. the responsibilities of employing people are also a big problem. the desire to maximise the protection of workers often increases the reluctance of employers to comply with all the rules laid down by the legislation. therefore, we should always give great consideration to the impact on small businesses when adopting any regulatory standards.
madam president, the committee on women's rights and gender equality has contributed to this report with an opinion which i drafted. the free movement of workers is undoubtedly one of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the european union and contributes to strengthening economic and social cohesion. considerable progress has been made in this area, but legal and administrative obstacles to mobility within the european union still exist. the commission's report on the application of the 2004 directive on the rights of citizens of the union and their family members showed that the transposition of the directive itself is less satisfactory for family members. it is therefore essential that individuals are properly informed about their rights and options, including those of their family. i would like to stress here in particular that in the context of free movement of persons, family members or partners, the important word being 'partners', should be granted equal rights and adequate services such as childcare facilities, nurseries, schools, health services and others. i am therefore pleased that the employment committee has incorporated our committee's opinion on family members in its report.
madam chairman, i have long supported alternative dispute resolution, but with one major caveat, and that is to include family matters within the scope of this bill. this area falls within the competence of the member states, in accordance with their national traditions. moreover, complex family disputes, including those concerning the upbringing of children, should be decided by judges trained and specialised in these matters, and the eu should not intervene in this area. however, i welcome the development of alternative dispute resolution in civil and commercial matters, in particular consumer dispute resolution, as it offers cheaper, faster and more practical solutions. these systems are to be built as web-based and, in the first instance, fully automated, so as to be attractive to entrepreneurs, and to comply with the principles of impartiality, transparency, efficiency and fairness. i have already pointed out that experience should be used, for example, in the eu internet domain name system. in conclusion, i would stress that the commission should make a strong appeal to countries such as the czech republic, where alternative dispute resolution systems are not yet fully operational.
madam president, i would like to support the report and the work of my colleague matera on the situation of single mothers. i believe that member states should promote appropriate support models for mothers that would increase their chances on the labour market while also leading to the possibility of combining working life with childcare. it is appropriate to support parents in child rearing within tax systems, but beware not only of single mothers, but also of marriage with children as an institution that must not be economically disadvantaged, so that the number of single mothers does not increase in an intentional way. any investment in childrearing is the best investment possible given the demographic situation in europe. the european commission should ensure that member states exchange best practices on this issue and that they also support non-profit organisations that focus on working with single mothers and assisting them in re-entering the labour market.
madam president, i was the shadow rapporteur for the european conservatives and reformists group on this report. i mean, in the czech republic, one in four children live in a single-parent family, and 90 percent of single parents are mothers, which is very alarming. i therefore support policies that allow such women to work and thus combine work with childcare. i therefore consider flexible working opportunities such as part-time work or working from home to be key. in addition, adequate childcare infrastructure is also needed to enable single mothers to work. from my own experience in municipal politics, i know that it is necessary to ensure a good existence for single mothers and their children through various support policies. this report - for which i thank the rapporteur, and i think she has done an excellent job - highlights the main problems faced by single mothers and focuses on the right objectives. but the question remains for me as a member of the european conservatives and reformists group whether the political instruments mentioned in the areas of health, education, social security systems, etc., should be within the competence of the european union. i believe that many of them can be better safeguarded by the member states.
in writing. the draft report addresses three aspects of the situation of single mothers. i consider the most serious aspect to be the threat of poverty. the report cites a five-year-old figure that shows that 32 per cent of single parent households face this serious problem. however, it can be assumed that due to the economic situation, this figure will be higher. i am convinced that many times single mothers do not get into difficult situations by their own inaction. in my experience in the czech republic, the main causes of economic difficulties are the non-payment of child support by the other parent and the lack of support for single mothers in the labour market, i.e. lower chances of getting a job, the lack of flexible working hours or the low number of places in kindergartens and their financial burden. the urgency of support for single women is also supported by the fact that the poor living situation is passed on to children and that it is difficult for them to break out of the vicious circle. the chances of getting a good education and finding a job are reduced. i am glad that the european parliament is taking this matter seriously.
for the ecr group. madam president, i, like my colleagues, have listened carefully to the council's speech and i am probably the only one here who can say that i am satisfied with the council's speech and its communication. simply because the council is operating in a real political and economic space. the council representative finally told us. it is aware that there is not only the european parliament, that there are also national parliaments and that debate in national parliaments is not simple and not one-sided. that's the first thing. secondly, the council has conveyed the obvious truth here between the lines that the development of national economies is heterogeneous and that harmonizing the process is not an overnight task. thirdly, and this was stated by the council, the process is very complicated. if the council here says that there are 600 documents which are not even in the official languages, and national parliaments have to fight it somehow, then of course it takes some time. and finally, what i consider the most serious. static targeting six months ago is fundamentally inconsistent with the current turbulent economic environment. i'm satisfied with the council's response.
in writing. - i voted to accept the report. the advantages of adr are clear: in particular, simplicity, lower costs and time efficiency compared to litigation. however, in order for the whole system to be really useful, we must not only guarantee european citizens access to this option, but above all, and this is absolutely crucial from my point of view, we must inform them sufficiently about the very nature and possibilities of out-of-court dispute resolution. low awareness among citizens, consumers and businesses is one of the main reasons for the often insufficient use and effectiveness of this tool in different eu member states.
in writing. − the legislation we are responding to in the off-road engine sector as a result of the economic crisis in 2008 and 2009 is being submitted for approval now, in the autumn of 2011. for about a year now, the representatives of the companies concerned have been asking me when they will finally know what changes their production process will have to adapt to. i think the legislation, if it's going to help effectively, has to come in time. otherwise, it brings insecurity and chaos instead of help. i also supported the report as rapporteur for the committee on transport and tourism, but i regret that it has taken so long to be adopted by the ep plenary.
in writing. the principle of free movement is a fundamental right in the european union. sufficient access to public and private transport, including harmonisation of parking permits in the member states and the development of a single catalogue of passenger rights, is needed to make appropriate transport by different means available to all. it is also necessary to create websites that can be used by visually impaired persons and electronically accessible online services in sign language. smes play a particularly important role in improving social inclusion, both by providing information on the employment of people with disabilities and by participating in public procurement, manufacturing and providing services with the participation of people with disabilities. there are also significant reservoirs in education and training systems that are not sufficiently equipped to address the needs of people with disabilities, and the number of students with disabilities who leave early remains high. for example, in denmark, one of the most advanced member states, 44% of young people with disabilities started upper secondary education in 2007, compared with 75% of those without disabilities. about 5% of disabled people have a university degree, which is only a fraction of the total.
in writing. i appreciate that the commission has decided, through the review, to make the eu's public procurement legislation simpler and more flexible. however, there are also contradictions in the green paper. on the one hand, the scope and detail of the questions give the impression that a 'micro-decree' is being introduced for public procurement, and on the other hand, many of the questions or proposals put forward are contradictory. for example, quotas or binding procurement targets could be in contradiction with the declared desire for simplification and greater legal certainty, thus contributing to further bureaucratization and the creation of new legislation. i believe that the review of the public procurement directives should be based on the need to streamline public procurement legislation and bring it back to its essence, i.e. to guarantee transparency, non-discrimination and ensure competition. in my view, the main attention should be paid to the tendency of public authorities to rely on bureaucratic procedures in cases of legal uncertainty, which leads to an attempt to avoid risks and, in the case at issue, to award the contract for the cheapest product or service instead of the most innovative or the best offer. this is particularly problematic in a time of economic crisis and limited public budgets.
in writing. it should be noted that labour mobility is not only reflected in employment policy provisions but is linked to measures taken in the fields of completion of the internal market, coordination of social security systems, pension rights, protection of workers, education and training, language requirements and tax measures such as those designed to avoid double taxation. i also consider it important to align the impacts of labour migration with existing strategies at european level, in particular the eu 2020 strategy, and also with the strengthening of the role of smes. the involvement of smes will create more jobs and their dynamic operation can allow for a cyclical migration of workers, which will mainly consist in upskilling through training, in which new or extended knowledge is acquired, as well as in maintaining a competitive environment that leads to better end products. the current situation and the lessons learned from the financial crisis have brought a new range of opportunities to boost economic performance and employment rates once again. to this end, the contribution of labour mobility is very important as it will contribute to greater social and economic convergence and bring lasting shared experiences beneficial to both employers and employees. moreover, the job creation objectives will be better achieved if labour mobility is fully implemented.
in writing. − due to the ambiguity of article 39 of the services directive as regards the precise definition of the objectives of peer review, peer review is confused with work on the implementation and application of the services directive. it should therefore be specified that peer review takes place after the implementation phase. i consider this order to be justified, as during the peer review member states discussed changes in their regulatory framework and rules that were maintained, repealed or amended as a result of the implementation of the services directive. this has enabled these discussions to provide a better understanding of the situation in each member state and also of the remaining obstacles that have not disappeared even after the transposition of the services directive. i consider this to be a major contribution to a better assessment of the current situation in the single market for services. however, peer review raises questions about the transparency of the procedure and whether and to what extent member states should be involved in a procedure that directly concerns them. the full and correct implementation of the services directive should, in my view, remain the top priority. bilateral meetings between the commission and the member states on the implementation of the services directive are already under way and the commission should not hesitate to use coercive measures if necessary.
in writing. on 24 october 2011, the parliament's plenary discussed a report on the situation of single mothers. the report contains a number of interesting findings and suggestions for improving the position of single mothers. the report finds that 5% of european women are single mothers. they are particularly affected by high unemployment and the cyclical nature of poverty, which affects the access to education for their children. low access to education leads to fewer opportunities to enter the labour market at a competitive level. statistics also show that single mothers are less likely to be healthy than mothers in two-parent families. often they cannot afford proper medical care or proper rest. statistically, single mothers across europe are less educated than married mothers. personally, i find very useful suggestions for measures that draw on the experience of other member states: introducing tax-free food for single mothers or providing tax breaks and incentives for companies that operate childcare facilities at work and in crèches, allowing single mothers to work while their children are looked after and educated. for the reasons stated above, i supported the report.
in writing. − the report on the situation of single mothers is a very useful report, which highlights the difficulties facing single mothers across the eu, where single mothers represent nearly 90% of single parents. this report encourages member states to review their policies towards single mothers in the areas of healthcare, childcare, education, pensions, social security and welfare and housing. whilst the ecr group does not object to the eu raising the awareness of such issues and encouraging cooperation and the sharing of best practice, we do oppose interference at eu level on social and employment issues. we defend the rights of national governments to make their own policies in the areas of healthcare, pension system, education and social security. it is for this reason that we have chosen to abstain on this report.
- organised crime is essentially transnational. it is therefore appropriate to recall the need for effective international cooperation, and in particular the cooperation of the competent authorities whose competence it is to combat organised crime. our contribution is first and foremost to the development of good legislation and thus to the support of the institutions in their work. i would also like to remind you that you should not forget to set up control mechanisms that will not allow any abuse of anything under the pretext of fighting organised crime and that you should set up rules for maximum transparency.
for the ecr group. mr president, let's sum up where we are, then, except that we are in the middle of a crisis. i must say that in the last few days and weeks i have felt that we have arrived in europe of the 19th century rather than the 21st. i feel like we're in europe sometime after 1815, after the congress of vienna, when it was called the "concert of the great powers", because despite all the talk about european unity, about european solutions, about the communitarian method, about the need for a transnational solution to rise above the national ones, i've only seen the last two national leaders in the last fortnight who were running the show and who were making the decisions here. and there was one chancellor and one president who even sandbagged another prime minister. he advised him to keep quiet. i am not a federalist, and mr schuman and mr monnet are not among my favourites, but i would say that this does not sound very european and perhaps both gentlemen are turning in their graves. otherwise, to the crisis itself. it's the same thing, and it's just a matter of passing on irresponsible behavior to the taxpayer. the irresponsible behaviour of banks and financial institutions that have played here like in a casino, the irresponsible behaviour of states that have bribed voters by spending public money that they really did not have, and the resulting debts we propose to europeanise, transfer to everyone, buy them in the name of saving the euro and it does not matter what we call it. tomorrow the european union will only buy time for one year, two years, maybe three years, but after a while we will be in the same situation again. let's face it, let's admit it - many of you here admit it in the roundtables, don't have the courage to say it but publicly - that the euro is not a project for everyone, that there will have to be a situation where not all the current members of the eurozone will be able to continue to participate in this project, because they will have to go through a managed bankruptcy, they will have to go through a devaluation. and you know that, in the colony, they talk about it, but you're afraid to say it out loud. so tomorrow's just about buying time. it's the most traditional way, it's probably the most comfortable way, it's the most expensive way, it's the least credible way for markets, and it's not the way of the state. because the difference between a statesman and a politician is that he has the courage to take on unconventional solutions, to take on new solutions, to convince people of them, to make them happen. so tomorrow we will find out, among other things, whether there is really a european statesman in europe or whether we have only politicians here.
for the ecr group. mr president, european steel demand is declining. the world's largest steel producer arcelormittal is therefore temporarily closing one of its three blast furnaces in poland. he's already shut down furnaces in belgium, germany and spain. and we're starting to talk right here about the need for european intervention, about the subsidies from the european globalisation adjustment fund. we're trying to figure out how to fix the market, which logically, with falling demand, is driving down steel prices. it is demonstrated that arcelormittal is able to restructure its production itself and at the same time to provide for its employees at a higher standard. in 2004, arcelormittal laid off 1 700 employees in the czech republic. in 2006, it was over 1000 and in subsequent years it was again over 1000. arcelor applied a voluntary redundancy policy. people who left voluntarily received severance pay equal to one to two and a half years of average monthly salary. the move has helped the czech company recover from a loss of nearly a billion crowns and to turn a profit of 700 million crowns last year. i would therefore consider it a huge mistake and an injustice now for eu money, our money, to finance the restructuring of the furnaces in belgium or other western european countries. the czech experience clearly shows that this is not necessary.
madam president, it is undeniable that the so-called flexicurity policies, which symbolise the modernisation of labour markets, have played a positive role in limiting the impact of the crisis on the labour market. however, the crisis has shown the need to continue labour market reforms and to focus on promoting labour mobility and reducing segmentation of labour sectors. i welcome the european commission's flagship initiative under discussion, which aims to contribute to the competitiveness of member states' economies, to reducing the transaction costs of doing business in the union and, more generally, to creating a better business environment, strengthening and improving the tertiary education system and modernising and making labour markets more flexible. it should be stressed, however, that newly launched employment policy activities should not be too prescriptive, as flexicurity policies must be based on the conditions, priorities and needs of individual member states. a specific mix of labour market policies cannot be defined for the whole of the european union; individual approaches are needed. this is the case, for example, of a single contract, where, while i agree with the general intention of reducing the differences in protection between fixed-term and indefinite-term contracts, i am nevertheless convinced that the specific form of implementation of that intention must be adapted to the conditions, needs and traditions of the member states. i therefore call for a sober and realistic approach in the implementation of this flagship initiative. in particular, we should support job creation by reducing administrative and legislative obstacles. reducing unpaid labour costs and facilitating the transition from informal or undeclared work to regular employment is also welcome. fiscal intervention distorting the market, activist table-setting, or over-regulation certainly don't deserve our support.
draftsman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - mr. chairman, everyone is talking about the crisis today. yes, there is a crisis. and member states are being forced to make substantial cuts in both their national budgets and the union budget. we are in an acute financial crisis. i think it is totally inappropriate to increase the eu budget by more than 2%, as proposed by the member states. the proposal we have on the table today, a 4.9% increase, gives me the feeling that its authors are living outside of economic reality. yes, i am in favour of the budget supporting employment. i'm all for a budget that supports growth. but this can be achieved by changing his philosophy, that is, by no longer increasing all budget chapters in a flat rate, but by auditing the usefulness of the projects financed today, and simply cutting back on expenditure on those that are not viable. we will then concentrate the savings on areas such as the internal market, whose functioning is key to economic growth and the competitiveness of the union as a whole.
in writing. in the past months, the rapporteur, mrs gräßle, has done a tremendous job with a number of concrete and genuinely positive results in the form of visible changes in the revision of the union's financial bible, the financial regulation. the main purpose of the new proposal is to simplify and reorganise the financial regulation by creating a simple legal instrument linking the principles and basic rules of budgetary and financial management. the new eu financial regulation should make european union spending more precise, transparent and more convenient for users of european funds. the new proposal stresses that improvements in eu financial management must be supported by close monitoring of developments in the commission and in the member states, and therefore insists that member states should take responsibility for the proper use and management of funds and issue regular annual national reports on the use of eu funds at the appropriate political level, the so-called national declarations.
mr president, the economic, financial and social crisis is mainly causing job losses. in total, 5.6 million have died in europe since 2008. the fact that a substantial proportion of the unemployed are young people under 30 is very worrying. if a young person does not start working after completing his education or university, his knowledge and skills disappear and he himself gradually becomes socially excluded from society. this situation does not allow them to properly start a family and to lead their children to work, thus assuming financial responsibility for their parents or grandparents later on. i stress the need to rethink the system of secondary education. in many european union countries, education produces hundreds of thousands of universally educated secondary school students who are out of work, while demand for traditional crafts persists and the european market is facing a long-term shortage of craftsmen. the report presented contains mostly appropriate measures to increase employment in europe and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. i am disappointed that neither the commission nor the council are proposing to increase support beyond the initial plans for investments urgently needed to implement the seven flagship initiatives in the fields of competitiveness and entrepreneurship, research and innovation, education and lifelong learning. i reject any form of transfer of funds from the 7th framework programme, as proposed by the commission in its set of proposals on how to finance iter, as this would jeopardise the successful implementation of the 7th framework programme. i also support the increase in commitment appropriations for selected fp7 items (capacity building research for smes, cooperation energy, ideas, people, energy research) as i believe these items are a tool to ensure growth and investment in key areas that are central to the europe 2020 strategy. i agree with the increase in the overall commitment appropriations for the competitiveness and innovation framework programme (cip intelligent energy and cip enterprise and innovation) compared to the initial allocation and believe that this increase will contribute to improving access to this programme for smes and to the development of specific programmes and innovative financial mechanisms. smes play an important role in improving the performance of the eu economy and the cip is an indispensable tool for post-crisis recovery in this regard.
in writing. − the eu 2020 growth strategy should not become a victim of the current austerity climate. i also reject the council's cuts in cohesion policy spending. that is why i agree with rapporteur balzani that investing in growth is really necessary to help europe out of the crisis. the budget for the next year is drawn up by the european parliament in a parsimonious way, and the increases relate mainly to the additional activities promoted by the european council, composed of the relevant ministers from the 27 member states. the european prime ministers' surprise of their decision to raise their salaries is a regular spectacle for their voters.
in writing. the case of switzerland, which is covered by a european directive under a bilateral agreement between switzerland and the eu, shows how hollow the current tax system in the eu is. dividends received by eu parent companies from swiss subsidiaries are not subject to taxation and can be deducted anywhere in the eu. the state thus 'loses' with multinational companies which evade tax obligations and thus contribute to public budgets in an inventive way. i therefore agree to the introduction of a requirement that, where capital leaving the country is not allowed to be taxed, a minimum tax of 25% be applied in the country where the capital is coming in. i therefore support the inclusion of stricter provisions in the directive to prevent abuse. dividend inflows from legal entities established in third countries must, within the scope of the directive, be subject to minimum requirements in order to limit distortions of the tax base by eu legal entities. on the other hand, i do not agree with the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base as a measure to combat double non-taxation. this measure will not lead to a reduction in the tax evasion opportunities of legal entities in the eu and a reduction in the administrative burden on businesses, but to a reduction in tax competition in the internal market, which will undermine its competitiveness.
in writing. − i welcome the effort to simplify the rules of budgetary policy in terms of administration and financing during the programme and project phases (application, evaluation and management), which should benefit stakeholders as a matter of priority. science and research are uncertain processes involving some inherent risk, and results-based funding can narrow the focus of research projects to less risky projects and market-oriented research, which would prevent the eu from promoting high-quality and frontier research. unfortunately, the overly strict interpretation of the financial regulation in previous years has led to a general risk-avoidance and zero trust in the participants of research programmes, thus reducing the effectiveness of its implementation. european research funding should be more based on mutual trust and responsible partnership, tolerate risk in terms of participants at all stages, and have flexible eu rules applied in accordance with national laws and procedures. the evaluation of research funding should be based on the nature of the research and focus on excellence, relevance and impact. simplification is not a separate objective but rather a means to ensure the attractiveness and availability of eu research funding, and simplification measures should also make it possible to avoid errors more effectively.
in writing. − i consider the new skills and jobs programme to be an important part of the eu 2020 strategy, because only a skilled workforce is a necessary prerequisite for the development of a competitive, sustainable and innovative economy. i support the promotion of integrated approaches involving key actors at national, regional and local level and stress the importance of the regional dimension of the implementation of the new skills and jobs agenda. there is also a need to improve the level and diversity of employment services provided to both jobseekers and employers, and in particular to pursue the development of personalised public services for the unemployed, young people and vulnerable groups in this area. i believe it is essential to ensure that funds for developing new skills are used more efficiently and that member state governments are more involved in supporting job creation. it is also possible to use the social economy as a means of creating employment opportunities for disadvantaged social groups, which means in particular the use of the relevant funds and programmes: the european social fund, the european regional development fund, the rural development fund, the lifelong learning programme, the progress programme and the interreg programme. in this context, i stress the importance of synergies between the different european funds and the importance of a decentralised approach to the current use of these funds in order to respond to labour market requirements.
mr president, mr ombudsman, when i read your speech on this subject last year, i thought my words were still relevant. your institution's purpose is to deal with cases of injustice by the european bureaucracy in a cheaper and more accessible way to the public. cases that could also be resolved by ordinary remedies or judicial review. your solution to the complainant's problem should therefore be fundamentally cheaper, faster and more flexible than a judicial solution. i read in your 2010 report that you had a budget of eur 9.3 million last year, with 2 667 cases registered. this amounts to an average of eur 3 500 per case. by comparison, the european court of human rights registered 61 300 cases last year, with a budget of €58.4 million. this translates to eur 953 per case. i know that any comparison is oversimplifying. however, i would ask you to consider and explain why you are so much more valuable than the judicial institution.
in writing. the report assesses the ombudsman's activities in 2010, highlighting as an important part of the report the new strategy of the office published on the occasion of its 15th anniversary. in 2010, the ombudsman received 2 667 complaints from citizens, businesses, associations, ngos and regional offices (3 098 in 2009) and handled a total of 2 727 complaints. 65% of the inquiries opened by the ombudsman in 2010 concerned the european commission (219 inquiries), an increase compared to 56% in 2009 (191 inquiries), which i do not consider to be a good trend. i agree with the ombudsman that the fundamental principle of the provision of information and documents in the eu, where openness is the rule and secrecy the exception, should be upheld. personally, i agree with the ombudsman's view that there is still a lot of work to be done to convince officials that defending the ombudsman is a missed opportunity for their institutions and threatens to damage the image of the union as a whole. 33% of all closed investigations and included refusal to provide information and refusal of access to eu documents, which i personally consider to be a high figure and a greater degree of transparency and openness should be required in the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there are a few good things in the package that has been adopted, but unfortunately there are many more bad things in it. one good thing is the call for a balanced budget – the so-called balanced budget rule. everybody wants to have a balanced budget. that is true. i just wonder how it will be received by those political forces and those politicians who have been used, for a very long time, to bribing their voters with public overspending. will they stick with that rule or not? that is another question. the main bad thing in the whole package is that it is actually only a buying of time, a temporary solution. what has happened? the vast amount of both private and public funds will be poured into the debt bailouts. other debts will simply be written off and a bond union will be created. this means that we are at the very beginning of a massive fiscal transfer, and one never before seen in european history. this is an unprecedented case and i am afraid that it will create an enormous burden for the eu economy and that it will result in very high long-term costs. i am afraid that loss of economic growth and loss of international competitiveness is unfortunately what is to be expected. even worse, this might have a side effect on other, very viable, strategies, such as completion of a single market. i was very pleased to see sunday’s council giving a renewed commitment to completion of a single market. we must not just drop the single market while we attempt to save the single currency. i represent a group with the most non-eurozone members and as a eurozone outsider, as an observer, my feeling is that the eurozone at the moment does not serve all its 17 members, but just a few. i have the feeling that the only answer to the current problems will be the reduction of the eurozone, and sooner or later this will have to be done, like it or not. that is the only reasonable way out of this mess. on non-eurozone countries, i have one more remark to make – last but not least. we should allow non-eurozone members, such as my country, to decide again if they even wish to enter. we signed up in our accession treaty to a monetary union, and not to a transfer union or a bond union. that is the main reason why, for instance, the czech prime minister wishes to call a referendum on this matter, which has my full support. to sum up, where are we now? we have found a very costly and only temporary solution. another treaty change is even being considered. let me say that this is completely out of touch and completely unrealistic. this will never be passed. have you already forgotten the lessons of the lisbon treaty? i do not think so. i am sorry to say this, but there is no real reason for optimism. merely rearranging the deckchairs on the titanic is not enough.
madam president, i abstained from voting on the ombudsman's 2010 activity report because, among other things, i cannot support the point where the european parliament congratulates the ombudsman on reducing the average time needed to complete the investigation of individual cases. i personally consider this period, which is still nine months, to be extremely long. incidentally, the cost of investigating a case is still four times that of, say, the european court of human rights.
in writing. − when voting on the report by iliana malinova iotova on the 2010 annual report of the european ombudsman, i abstained because, among other things, i cannot agree with the assertion that the ombudsman's role in strengthening the openness and accountability of the decision-making processes and the administrative structure of the european union contributes significantly to the creation of a union in which decisions are taken as openly as possible and as closely as possible to the citizens. the vast majority of the population of the member states is unaware of the european ombudsman's work and has never heard of it.
in writing. − i am in favour of a greater convergence of the two categories of protection refugee status and subsidiary protection , and thus a general designation person enjoying international protection. in this way, the implementing authorities will be informed that the two categories of protection are complementary. the additional protection is also very important for persons who are at risk of serious harm upon return to their country of origin. there is also a greater convergence of the rights which form part of protection, the most important of which is probably access to the labour market. already most member states do not make a large distinction between the two groups. however, discrimination can still occur in three areas: social care, integration measures and residence permits. however, some progress has been made in the latter area, as the residence permit of beneficiaries of subsidiary protection must be extended for at least two years after one year. only a few member states currently apply a different procedure. the ep considered that this procedure was important from the point of view of integration and also gave the person concerned a greater sense of security.
in writing. - for many years we have been talking about the dangers of corruption in the countries in transition, especially those east of the eu's borders, and corruption at the highest levels. of course, the corruption stories are true, but they're also full of legends. today, ukrainian society and media are divided over the trial of former ukrainian prime minister yulia tymoshenko. was she corrupt or not? the resolution's drafters are convinced that it is not. i don't take away their right to their opinion. but in civilized countries, these issues are decided by the courts. i have no doubt that the courts can be wrong. the rule of law provides for the possibility of appealing to a higher court, perhaps as far as strasbourg. i've never heard of a former prime minister being denied that right. i recognize that this process is time-consuming, unpleasant and imperfect. but it's the best one yet. the resolution suggests that the court has been politicized. i don't know, man. but the commission is certainly intervening politically, and now the european parliament too. is it really enough to stop a politician or an oligarch suspected of corruption just because we don't like his opponent? or are you afraid that corruption in the highest places could be prosecuted in the union?
in writing. − one of the fundamental tasks of the community is to protect the health of its citizens. in this context, i consider the amendments which specify and tighten the conditions for the use of antibiotics, particularly in agriculture, to be a significant step forward. i welcome the emphasis on prevention, including in the field of human health. the amendments also aim to guarantee the responsible development of new preparations and, on the other hand, to allow the use of antibiotics in justified cases. it is right that the joint resolution stresses the gradual reduction of antibiotic use in agriculture and its gradual replacement by compliance with hygiene standards and biosecurity measures.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the threat to public health posed by antimicrobial resistance. the reason is that i believe that there is a need to end the regular prophylactic use of antibiotics in the breeding and treatment of livestock. instead, precautions such as adequate hygiene, appropriate accommodation and animal handling are desirable. this is also the view of the world health organization (who), which this year showed that the widespread use of antibiotics in agriculture is contributing to the rise of antibiotic resistance.
the first item is the debate on tibet, particularly the self-immolation of nuns and nuns.
mr posselt, do you have a point of order?
mr silvestris, we are all subject to the same rules and i also made it absolutely clear to ms de keyser because she raised the blue card. i understood she would be asking ms ojuland a question; that was not the case. so i just made it absolutely clear that the blue-card procedure should not be used to make a point of order.
mr. chairman, i want to express my deep regret that the brutal persecution by the ruthless chinese government is driving tibetan monks and nuns to self-immolation because they have no other option to fight this oppression. today's resolution, which we're responding to these suicides, has a strong personal resonance for me as well. in my country, czechoslovakia, in 1969, young people also set themselves on fire to protest against the occupation and oppression of the regime. the legacy of jan palach and jan zajíc was finally fulfilled after two seemingly hopeless decades. i wish that the sacrifice of the buddhist monks and nuns was not in vain, that they could live in their land freely and that their land would be free from the occupiers. in the meantime, we in the european union must insist in all circumstances and in all negotiations with the chinese government that political and anti-religious repression be lifted and political prisoners be released and that tibet be given autonomy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on bahrainsee minutes..
mr ferreira, let me assure you that we fully respect the principles of multilingualism and i will check with the services to see what happened to the portuguese translation.
colleagues, i have information for mr ferreira regarding the joint motions for resolutions. the translations of the joint motions, including portuguese, were already available last night. we do not translate the individual motions any more and that has been the practice for years in this house.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the case of rafah nached in syria see minutes..
the author. - mr. chairman, i am unequivocally in favor of releasing rafah nached from prison. i assume she's innocent, although i don't know why i should after so much experience still believe the media campaigns. but i reject the use of the european parliament to support more unnecessary and cruel wars. if we assume that the war is an armed conflict with more than a thousand deaths a year, then syria is already in a civil war. the state is fighting insurgents who have foreign support. brussels is once again taking a side. and we humbly go down this path again, without knowing who the other rebel is. our sincere support for mrs. rafah nached may also be a blind participation in a campaign to promote hate. i believe that the role of the european union is to mediate peace. let's at least vote today not only for the release of rafah nached, but for peace.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
rapporteur of the committee on employment and social affairs. - madam president, on the question of mutual recognition of qualifications, i would like to stress a few basic points. the first is that the mutual recognition of professional qualifications promotes the free movement of persons, workers and their access to the labour market in the member states of the european union, and undoubtedly contributes to employment and labour mobility. the legislation applicable in this area undoubtedly requires change, in the direction of simplifying administration, speeding up the recognition of qualifications, reducing the number of regulated professions and perhaps also better coordinating training. as far as professional certificates are concerned, which we think of more as a kind of database or an electronic database, we see two views of this. the first is a database of people who have a certain qualification and wish to be in such a database in order to facilitate the recognition of qualifications in other countries, and this database must be voluntary and could be organised at national level. unlike the database of people who were forbidden to practice their profession for whatever reason. such databases must be compulsory and uniform throughout the community. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that the european union has no competence to decide on professional qualifications, but only to make recommendations to the member states and to create an infrastructure for the mutual recognition of qualifications between the member states.
madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs on a very well-crafted report. europe today is on the verge of if not recession, then at least stagnation. it's going to be very difficult to get through this period. the union and its institutions are already suffering from a lack of legitimacy and citizens' confidence in its future is rapidly declining. the remedy for the current situation is certainly not to strengthen the union even more and to transfer more powers to brussels, but to return to the original ideas of european integration, the 'relaunch' of the internal market and the single market act. increasing the mobility of skilled workers and reducing the number of regulated professions is an effective remedy for the current economic problems of some member states. i would therefore also like to call on the member states not to be tempted by populist appeals to protect national labour markets. on the contrary, they should remove existing barriers more quickly and instead of creating national preferential measures, focus on strengthening their own competitive strengths in a functioning internal market.
that concludes the item.
the next item is the report by kyriacos triantaphyllides, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on a new strategy for consumer policy (2011/2149(ini)) (a7-0369/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 15 november 2011).
the next item is the report by jürgen creutzmann, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on online gambling in the internal market [2011/2084(ini)] (a7-0342/2011).
mr president, this report and the commission's green paper are the right step after four years of debate on how to regulate the unregulated. that is, online gambling crossing not only state borders but also the union. however, there is a need to find common ways to protect consumers from fraud, to combat money laundering more effectively and to protect young people from gambling, all at european level. i also support respect for different national approaches at this stage, but subsidiarity must not prevent close cooperation in the detection of crime, nor be a pretext for protectionism. therefore, it is important to delete point 20. states that restrict licences should objectively justify this by non-compliance with national legislation.
mr. chairman, online gambling is very convenient, you just click your mouse at home and you're in the game. the risks and social costs of compulsive gambling are therefore enormous. in the european union, this can be as high as 5.5% of the population, so we are talking about millions of european citizens. that is why i consider consumer protection and the prevention of pathological gambling to be essential requirements. i believe it is important to adopt common european rules that will lead to effective prevention and protection of vulnerable groups, especially young people, who are most at risk from this type of gambling. the member states need to cooperate much more in this area, particularly in combating the negative effects of gambling. i am therefore pleased that the report includes a call to the commission and the member states to focus on research into the occurrence, development and treatment of gambling addiction. the combination of prevention of negative effects and effective assistance to victims of gambling is the only possible way to actively confront the phenomenon of online gambling.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 15 november 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by csaba sándor tabajdi, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on honeybee health and the challenges of the beekeeping sector [2011/2108(ini)] (a7-0359/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 15 november 2011). written statements (rule 149)
in writing. beekeeping provides key services to agriculture in the form of pollination and helps to preserve species biodiversity and maintain ecological balance. it also provides the livelihood for more than 600 000 eu citizens. the economic value of beekeeping is strategic precisely because the very success of food production depends on bee pollination. european beekeeping is faced with occasional but large declines in whole bee colonies, the causes of which cannot be sufficiently and timely demonstrated. the deaths are undoubtedly the result of heavy environmental pollution and the widespread use of pesticides and antibiotics in agriculture. genetically modified crops may also contribute to the death of bee colonies. my view is reinforced by the fact that gmo producers are not involved in research on the impact of gmos on bees. beekeeping can benefit greatly if the eu soon revises and establishes the types of pesticides and fertilisers that are allowed and prohibited in agriculture. i welcome the commission's intention to make its website available in all language versions for dialogue and exchange of information between beekeepers in all member states, regions and thus between professional and amateur beekeepers. i support the creation of specific financial assistance programmes for new and young beekeepers across the eu and the promotion of the breeding of original bee species that have been genetically more resistant to viruses and mites. the diversity of bee species can greatly benefit the situation in both beekeeping and agriculture.
the next item is the report by kerstin westphal, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on demographic change and its consequences for the future cohesion policy of the eu (2010/2157(ini)) (a7-0350/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 15 november 2011). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by peter simon, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on reform of the eu state aid rules on services of general economic interest [2011/2146(ini)] (a7-0371/2011).
there are considerable differences between member states as regards the definition and scope of public service obligations and their exemptions from the internal market rules. the commission should be supported in its efforts to map legislative rules in the member states. we should insist on simplifying the rules for the mobilisation of state aid and support the commission in its efforts to introduce, within the possibilities provided by subsidiarity, greater transparency and control of the proportionality of the level of subsidies. in particular, large investment contracts for public service enterprises, whether state or municipal, are a source of enormous corruption. but the commission should also adjust its procedures and investigate suspicions and complaints of excessive subsidies and corruption much more rigorously. the commission's investigations are often formal and rely mainly on the opinions of ministerial officials, who cover up the purposeful assessments by the excessive or illegal level of state aid. i found this to be true when i read the answers to my questions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 15 november 2011). written statements (rule 149)
in writing. the report presented by the commission deals with the commission's proposal to amend the package of services of general economic interest (sgeis) which play an important role in the eu's common values, in particular by promoting fundamental rights and social, economic and territorial cohesion, thereby supporting the fight against social inequalities. the sgeis also make a significant contribution to the economic performance and competitiveness of the member states, which seems very important in the light of the current problems in the euro area. lastly, they contribute to the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and should contribute to the achievement of the growth objectives, in particular in the areas of employment, education and social inclusion. i welcome the commission's intention to make things simpler, clearer and more proportionate. in the area of social services, i consider it essential that, for social services of general economic interest which are, by their nature, locally limited, specific higher thresholds than the compensation payment, the failure of which is not expected to have an impact on trade between member states, be introduced. however, i also support general exemptions from the obligation to report for other areas of social services of general economic interest, such as facilities for the care of elderly and disabled people or health care. overall, i think that the report presented by mr peter simon is a good one.
madam president, poverty and social exclusion cannot be underestimated in our time. i'm not sure the platform as it's designed will help. however, i think that from an economic point of view, we should look at how it is possible that the poverty rate is increasing and the social exclusion rate is increasing. this is certainly the result of the reduction in competitiveness of rigid labour laws, high labour taxes and an overly rich social system that discourages employers from offering work and discourages some employees from seeking work. politics must create space for people to become rich based on their abilities and their decisions. this must be done through the liberalisation of labour law, for example to enable women to benefit from flexible working hours, reduced working hours with their employers or to make it easier for young people to enter into employment relationships, as their employers will not risk too much if the young person or the employer does not like or agree with their future employment relationship. the state must put in place a robust retraining system for people who have not received a good education, while ensuring that parents make sure their children go to school. and this is especially true of the poorest and those who really need to get an education. in this context, there is a very serious debate about the so-called minimum wage. you may be in favor of raising the minimum wage threshold, but be assured that any codification of a high minimum wage means that the opportunity to work for the most socially vulnerable people with the lowest education is taken away.
in writing. on 15 november, the european parliament discussed the report on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. it is sad that the european union, as one of the richest regions in the world, has more than 80 million citizens at risk of poverty, of whom 20 million are children and more than 6 million are the active population. this situation is incompatible with the european values of justice and solidarity enshrined in the treaties. the financial crisis since 2008 has exacerbated this phenomenon, increasing the pressure on the most vulnerable sections of the population. although the fight against poverty and social exclusion is the exclusive competence of member states' governments, the european union can play an important role in raising awareness of the problem, in strengthening coordination and in financing activities in the member states to tackle poverty and social exclusion. this multifaceted problem requires an integrated response involving the joint efforts of all levels of public administration, from the european level to the local level. personally, i believe that the most effective instruments can be implemented by local authorities, as they are closest to these groups, and that these instruments must be complemented by systemic measures in the social system at the level of each member state with the aim of reducing poverty and social exclusion.
madam president, europe has the oldest population and the lowest population growth rate in the world, while the waves of migration from third countries are still increasing. if we take these population changes as an opportunity and co-create them appropriately, they will not become a ticking time bomb for the european union. unlike the strategies, the member states, regions and cities can use the structural funds. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following undertakings: regional policy is the main instrument to address demographic change. i call on the regions to make greater use of the opportunities offered by the european union and to work on adequate projects to support the elderly, children and families, and to employ young citizens. on immigration, i stress the need for the european union to distinguish in its policies between migrants who move europe forward and those who migrate to the european union only with the vision of a simpler life. the report presented offers a number of suitable solutions, which is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. i supported the eu-georgia air transport agreement, which will create a single framework for all airlines in the eu and in georgia. the application of the existing rules on the prevention of unlawful acts and aviation safety and air traffic management in georgia will allow for the mutual opening of the market and non-discriminatory participation of all economic operators in the common aviation space. in future, all air carriers in the eu and georgia will be able to offer their services from anywhere in the eu and anywhere in georgia. i am convinced that mutual market opening will lead to the entry of new entrants, the operation of services at hitherto less used airports and will also facilitate consolidation among eu air carriers. i agree with the commission's estimate that the gradual introduction of the eu-georgia common aviation area will bring an increase of 25 000 passengers in the first year and a total benefit to consumers of approximately eur 17 million.
in writing. − as i have pointed out on other occasions, there is a need to have quality control mechanisms in place to ensure that we are operating in a transparent and efficient manner. the benefits of temporary suspension of the general duty on imports of certain goods are intended to stimulate the growth of the local economy, to strengthen competitiveness. the application of control regimes should be a safeguard element that leaves the possibility to enjoy these benefits for the entire agreed period. there should be no situation where such preferred types of goods become the subject of illegal trade or other speculation outside their original purpose. i believe that the experience gained in the control of the end-use of this type of goods in the previous period will help to improve this process in the years to come.
in writing. the government of the kingdom of spain, on behalf of the authorities of the autonomous community of the canary islands, has requested the extension of the existing arrangements providing for the suspension of customs duties on imports of certain industrial products. the literal aim of these measures is to strengthen the competitiveness of local businesses and thus to ensure more stable employment in the islands. i did not support this report because i am against the introduction of customs exemptions in the european union. european funds in the form of the erdf and the esf are used to boost competitiveness and employment. i would also point out that the suspension of customs duties will lead to a loss of revenue from the union's own resources, which, on the contrary, the european parliament is trying to increase with proposals for various taxes on financial transactions, etc.
in writing. - i believe that when the insolvency regulation is revised, the commission should focus on some important aspects, such as extending the scope of the regulation to include situations where the management of the company remains in the hands of the debtor, as this would open up a number of possibilities for the debtor with powers of disposition to reorganise the company. i consider the concept of the place where the interests are concentrated to be the most important one, since the determination of that place is the most important rule of the insolvency regulation for determining jurisdiction which court will have jurisdiction to open the main proceedings and which law will be applicable. however, this term is not defined and this creates uncertainty. in my view, the definition of an establishment should include not only human and material resources but also services. finally, the obligation to communicate and cooperate should not only apply to the administrator of the estate but also to the courts.
in writing. − i am convinced that the structural funds must be better adapted to the challenges of demographic change. the commission should regard this change as a key priority for the development of europe. at the same time, member states and regions should take this issue more into account than in the past and consider it a horizontal priority in their operational programmes. demographic indicators should be taken into account when allocating structural funds resources at regional level. we face significant infrastructure challenges not only in rural areas but also in cities. the outflow of population and social exclusion of the elderly must be prevented, and urban planning must be changed. the structural funds can provide support here. cities and towns must be attractive to their inhabitants, which also includes child- and family-friendly infrastructure and good public transport links over short distances. given that demographic changes are mainly affecting older people, children and families, it is necessary that the european regional development fund should also be used to support low-interest loans that can help build housing suitable for older people or promote multi-generational housing. universal healthcare, sufficient nursing staff and free round-the-clock childcare are essential and can be supported by cohesion policy.
in writing. even after the march accident at the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant in japan, for understandable reasons, nuclear power remains a key part of the energy mix for many european union countries, or the only way for them to meet their needs. however, fukushima has put before us a clear demand for further enhancement of nuclear safety, especially on two levels: tougher international standards and strengthening of specific safety measures. in addition, the general challenge of dealing with nuclear waste management remains. the proposals presented are precisely targeted at these areas. in addition, they align the euratom programme with the current budgetary framework until 2013. and these are also the main reasons why i recommend the whole package for approval.
in writing. − i welcome the debate on the directive and its amendments. it is right that emphasis is placed on the gradual harmonisation of professional qualifications. our attention cannot be focused only on highly qualified professionals, but also on the level of technical workers with a secondary education. i support a substantial increase in the exchange of information on specific expertise between member states. i also support the argument that language skills should not be seen as a fundamental barrier to the exercise of expertise. i disagree with the positive assessment of the impact of the so-called bologna process. on the contrary, i consider that it needs to be reviewed in order to be an effective means of upgrading qualifications comparable in all the member states. so far, they're just a barrier to getting a full college education.
in writing. the new consumer policy strategy should reflect the ongoing changes in consumer protection legislation and emphasise greater cross-border enforceability of consumer rights, protection of intellectual property rights as well as protection of personal data. i also find it very important that the report draws attention to the importance of standardisation and highlights its potential to contribute to simplifying complex procedures and providing comprehensive information to consumers, for example in the area of services, including the possibility of involving consumer organisations in the standard-setting process. i believe that consumer law should continue to retain its private law nature and that the overall objective of the new strategy should be to strengthen the enforceability of consumer rights.
in writing. − i am convinced that an independent and strong national regulatory authority is a prerequisite for an open and organised online gambling market. this authority must establish the framework conditions for gambling and, in particular, must be able to enforce those framework conditions. national regulatory authorities must therefore be equipped with the necessary powers to prosecute infringements of the conditions laid down and to act against illegal providers. however, given the cross-border nature of the internet, member states are not in a position to regulate all areas of online gambling on their own. therefore, very close cooperation between national regulatory authorities is necessary. so far, cooperation has been limited to small-scale activities, for example in the form of bilateral procedures. however, institutionalised cooperation would be needed, for example on the basis of an internal market information system, so that information could be shared efficiently and quickly. only a common european outlet can prevent unlicensed providers from exploiting loopholes and national regulatory authorities from competing with each other. the commission and the member states are therefore invited to act swiftly to protect european consumers from unscrupulous gambling providers.
in writing. i supported the report in particular because it respects the principle of subsidiarity and one of its conclusions is the rejection of a european-wide regulation to implement the regulation in this area. the fact that the report emphasised respect for the right of nation states to apply national rules to the organisation of gambling in their territory only reinforced my conviction of the report's accuracy. i also very much appreciate the space that the report has given to sport, especially the preservation of the ethical integrity of sport. i strongly support cross-border cooperation in fraud detection, transparent and legal gambling, as well as cooperation in prevention programmes addressing the negative impacts of gambling, with a focus on at-risk groups such as young people.
in writing. − although the text of the report correctly underlines the common view of the european parliament and the commission not to seek in any way to deregulate and liberalise online gambling, i could not vote in favour of the proposal. i welcome the fact that the report notes the results that clearly show the negative social and health impacts of gambling addiction. it rightly points out that pathological behaviour resulting from such dependence affects a high percentage of the population in some member states. despite these findings, however, the proposed measures are not, in my view, strong and therefore ineffective. this includes, for example, the reluctance to introduce regulated access to these games through identification cards or the reluctance to ban advertising for these games. the justification that advertising is part of the promotion of sport is rather vague. the health and social consequences of gambling addiction are comparable to those of smoking or excessive alcohol consumption.
in writing. − i believe it is essential to look at the pan-european level for solutions to the excessive mortality of bees. the problem is the lack of reliable and comparable data on the number of beehives, beekeepers and hive losses in the eu. there is a strong need to apply an effective harmonised surveillance system in order to estimate the extent of bee mortality and to obtain more accurate knowledge on the extent and causes of bee colony loss and other bee health problems. in this context, i welcome the commission's pilot programme on bee health surveillance and, in line with the council conclusions, i call on the commission to make its results available to all interested parties, while stressing that further efforts are needed if an adequate surveillance system is to be established in the eu. the commission should also support the establishment of a european reference network for beekeeping to monitor the health of bees in relation to environmental conditions and beekeeping or farming practices. i also welcome the establishment of an eu reference laboratory. this laboratory should complement the activities of existing networks of experts or national laboratories. i also stress the need to support diagnostic laboratories and field tests at national level. in addition, the commission should provide facilities to laboratories which analyse the quality and safety of apiculture products and ensure the dissemination of this information at european level.
in writing. − as shadow rapporteur in the envi committee, i decided to support an alternative resolution to the bee health report for the following reasons: firstly, the alternative resolution contains an objective criticism of the toxicity of pesticides, specifically systemic neurotoxins, criticises the shortcomings of the impact studies carried out and respects the precautionary principle. secondly, the report submitted by the agri committee does not indicate the dangers posed by the use of neurotoxic pesticides, in particular the group of neonicotinoids, which act as hormonal and digestive disruptors. however, scientific studies confirm the dangers of not only nicotinoids but also of entire plants containing these substances. fatal consequences for bees may result from mere contact with the gutter dew of neonicotinoid-treated plants. third, significant concentrations of the active substances were measured: 47 mg/ l for imidacloprid, 23.3 mg/ l for clothianidin and 11.9 ml/ l for thiametoxam. however, other experiments have measured much higher values. bees exposed to such toxic dew stop flying within a few minutes and become pedestrians or soon die. the symptoms are irreversible. clothianidin and thiamethoxam were found to be more toxic than imidacloprid, even at very low concentrations in the gout drops. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide a more comprehensive definition of the term 'neonicotinoids' in the eu.
in writing. i welcome the commission's plans to review the rules on state aid for services of general economic interest in order to harness the potential of these services for social cohesion, environmental sustainability and economic prosperity. i emphasise the potential of the industries defined in the member states as services of general economic interest and their importance not only for europe's competitiveness and sustainable economic growth in line with the conditions and objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, but also as sectors that can undergo rapid development and become globally competitive, as demonstrated for example in the telecommunications sector. i welcome the commission's proposals to further clarify the procedures for state aid to local and regional authorities. i am convinced that undistorted competition and the transparent application of state aid rules to services of general economic interest are crucial to prevent protectionism, to revitalise the single market and to deliver better public services. the way in which compensation for the provision of services of general economic interest is granted has an impact on public finances and the efficient use of public resources. therefore, a high level of transparency should be ensured through strict reporting obligations and the availability of information on all state aid allocations to services of general economic interest.
mr president, i listened very carefully to commission president barroso and we made a few remarks. he said his programme called for sustainable and massive growth, renewed confidence in the european union as a growth tool, a common commitment, consolidation of stability, a return to growth and an employment strategy. it would be quite easy to find these statements made by mr barroso. however, they may think otherwise, they may be aware of the deepening loss of competitiveness of the european union, of european union firms and of european economies. perhaps he means that the european commission will actively repeal a number of senseless regulations that are hurting business. it may announce the abandonment of the policy of large-scale harmonization and it may call for the liberalization of labour law so that as many people as possible get jobs, so that as many people as possible can work. because debt is not the cause of today's unhappy state, debt is the consequence of this state, and therefore something needs to be done about it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in december. written statements (rule 149)
for the ecr group. mr. chairman, i think we're all lying to each other a little bit. as a participant in several climate conferences in recent years, i've already fallen into considerable skepticism. we have consistently stressed the need for a global agreement and without a global agreement, action on european soil is pointless. if you look at the emissions numbers today, they're for elementary school students. what we have done now before durban and after cancun is to move back to unilateral commitments. we're saying cancun was a success. cancun was saved from ruin and tragedy at the last minute. as a colleague said, it almost caused the collapse of the un. let's not pass this off as a success. if we again in our declaration offer the unilateral decarbonisation of the european union, if we offer unilateral commitments that have no global impact, if we offer the inclusion of a financial transaction tax that still does not exist, then please forgive me, but i cannot sign this document and i declare that i withdraw my signature on behalf of the ecr group. i will, of course, wish our delegation the utmost success, but i am skeptical and must emphasize that no agreement will be reached.
mr president, there is no doubt that the figures we have heard are alarming. but i would like to draw our attention to one aspect of this debate, namely that at the budgetary control committee meeting last week, commissioner šemeta named the three countries with the alleged greatest deficiencies in cohesion policy: italy, spain and the czech republic. since i am from the czech republic and the czech republic is mentioned for the first time in this context, i have tried to find out the details of these statements. and the answer is only that in the czech republic 16 projects or payments were audited and 4 of them were classified as seriously quantifiable errors. i do not want to question the work of the court of auditors, which i very much respect, but i would like to call on the commission to be more restrained in its statements, because they must first be factually based. of course, i welcome further, perhaps even better, mutual information on these matters.
madam president, i have also been a member of the acp-eu assembly for many years and, after the treaty of lisbon, i looked forward to the european external action service helping us to promote common objectives, including respect for human rights. as vice-president for human rights, i would welcome the really active work of this service on the ground in the individual countries where the problems are occurring, especially, of course, with regard to open violence against women. it would also be necessary for our envoys to help in the formulation of strategic plans and the implementation of what we are dreaming of in our mixed assembly. in conclusion, i would also like to ask what action the commission has taken or will take against the violent collectivization of land. it's been mentioned here. after all, it is impossible to ignore the expulsion of white farmers, whether it be in zimbabwe or kenya and other countries. i would also like to know how the responsibilities between the commission and the external action service will be organised. in conclusion, i would like to join others who regret that our reports on the acp countries are not being discussed here in plenary.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am a very disciplined person so i will try to keep this within the time, since there is nothing much to talk about. all of you have said that more centralisation, more fiscal and political union, is needed in the euro zone. your direction is clear. instead of reducing the number of euro zone members that might create a leaner, healthier and stronger single currency, you have gone the other way round. i am sorry to say this but this is once again ideology prevailing over economy. people from my part of europe lived in a system that promoted ideology over economy for a long time and it did not go well at the end. one good thing you are trying to do is to restore fiscal discipline in the euro zone. but you are not doing it through political will and democratic means but by implementing some kind of fiscal dictatorship which would be run from brussels, frankfurt, berlin and paris. i can agree to a large extent with mr schulz that this is much more like the vienna congress than a european union, but where i disagree with mr schulz is that the community’s so-called community method can save us. the community method and all that federalist ideology is only an illusion in my understanding. it is only a coat of varnish behind which power games are played out and if this continues it will undermine the very little that remains of the credibility the eu has in the eyes of its citizens. secondly, any treaty changes would require the unanimous approval of all 27 eu members, not just the 17 euro zone members. there are 27 european union members, including my own country and including the united kingdom. you might or might not like it but that is the situation and if you open the treaties you should expect that those non-euro-zone members will negotiate. they will not grant automatic approval to any treaty change because what happens in the euro zone does affect all of us. we will negotiate: you may want more centralisation, we do not. we will negotiate for more flexibility. i am not scared of a two-tier or a multi-speed or a variable geometric europe. so, if you want to open the treaties you must be prepared for negotiations and there will negotiations just not in a one-way road but in a two-way road. it is that simple.
mr. chairman, i voted against the resolution for the climate change conference in durban. the world's climate has changed, is changing, and will change regardless of human activity. humans have always adapted to a changing climate, and will continue to do so in the future, without the need for expensive central climate controls in brussels. global warming, or more recently climate change, cannot be a pretext for global social engineering, which involves imposing new taxes, banning certain technologies and subsidising others, supposedly green. the cost of these measures is already enormous and places a heavy burden on the economies of the countries that have introduced them. we see this, after all, in the steadily rising price of electricity in the european union, driven by the extremely high cost of renewable energy. to continue in this way is absurd, for the world simply does not have the means. moreover, this approach does not lead to emission reductions on a global scale. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. the second reading recommendation for a decision of the ep and the council establishing a european union action for the designation of 'european heritage' aims primarily at strengthening the sense of belonging to europe and therefore the eu among european citizens. cultural, historical or other monuments could be awarded the designation 'european heritage' through a selection procedure every two years, the main criterion being proof of their symbolic value for europe and european integration. while there are already a number of designations for cultural and other sites, the 'european heritage' designation system can bring added value in terms of tourism growth at a small financial cost. it can thus become another symbol for european and world tourists and contribute, at least in a small way, to economic growth in europe. i welcome any such initiative and that is why i voted to accept the recommendation put forward.
in writing. − while i do not deny the good intentions of the initiators and authors of the 'european heritage' designation, i believe that the designation of monuments, after a rigorous monitoring, with the 'european heritage' designation is far from the main thing that would, according to the report's proposal, 'strengthen the sense of belonging to the european union among european citizens and contribute to strengthening intercultural dialogue'. i consider it to be a pointless measure, but one that can be accepted, because it does not harm anyone, so to speak. but the way in which citizens feel connected to the european union is shaped by fundamentally different things, such as how the eu affects their standard of living, how much democracy is not lacking, and how well the union is coping with the economic crisis.
in writing. currently, 17 eu member states, including the czech republic, are active participants in an intergovernmental project on the 'european heritage' label. this designation has been awarded to 64 sites by mutual agreement between the member states. the first nominations were made by the individual national ministries. it was agreed that each country participating in the initiative could propose a maximum of 4 nominations. in the case of the czech republic, these are the kynžvart castle, the vítkovice machinery group (a national cultural monument), the town of tomáš bati zlín and the antonín dvořák monument in vysoká u příbram. the original markings in the form of metal plaques were produced at the expense of france. each plaque bears the european heritage label in 3 language versions, one of which is the national language of the country concerned. this project is now moving to the eu level. i supported the draft decision because this label plays an important role in promoting knowledge of europe's cultural traditions and will promote tourism in these places.
in writing. − i agree with the proposal for some form of separation of infrastructure management from the operation of transport services, with the aim of creating a structure where infrastructure is operated independently of services and ensuring that the natural monopoly that this network is is managed for the benefit of all service operators. this would allow for more competition, investment and better services. if the eu is to increase the share of rail transport in the transport sector and create a single european railway area, it must deliberately separate the railway systems. i support the commission's approach, which proposes to increase the independence and powers of national regulatory bodies, and i believe that it is necessary to strengthen regulatory control of the railway sector. effective regulatory control at national and european level is a necessary precondition for any further integration of national rail transport markets, as it ensures fair and non-discriminatory rail market rules. on the contrary, i do not think that more emphasis should be placed on the european dimension of regulatory control. i therefore do not support amendments which would lead to the creation of a european network of regulatory bodies, which would create the conditions for the creation of a european regulatory body.
in writing. the report by mrs serracchiani is based on a number of erroneous assumptions. the first is the argument that in order to ensure effective and non-discriminatory access to railway infrastructure, it is sufficient to separate infrastructure from operation. the second error is to claim that the creation of a single european railway area is a prerequisite for increasing the share of rail transport in the railway sector. the author completely ignores the need for harmonisation of safety and operational regulations between states. on the contrary, it vaguely emphasises the need to observe the strictest safety rules possible and similarly makes a light reference to the employment and working conditions of employees. the introduction of a uniform collection of data on incidents and the effort to reflect external costs in infrastructure charges are positive. at the same time, the report in annex viii points to the importance of simplifying and harmonising infrastructure charges. the possibility of changing the rules contained in the annexes outside parliamentary deliberations is very dangerous for the stability of railway operations. i agree with the rapporteur that annexes ii to viii can only be amended by the ordinary legislative procedure. the whole report has its usual weaknesses and i have to oppose the constantly repeated thesis that further liberalisation is the only correct way to increase the weight of rail transport. however, i support the report in part, and therefore i will not reject it.
in writing. − the directive under discussion on the creation of a single european railway area brings together existing legislation in a single legal act, which introduces a large number of substantive changes compared to the existing legislation. these concern in particular the financing and charging of infrastructure, non-discriminatory and transparent conditions for competition on the railway market and railway market surveillance. although i supported the european parliament's position because i consider it a fragile compromise, i am convinced that the proposed application of the principles of internalisation of external costs will lead to an unnecessary increase in the regulatory burden. i am also wary of proposals to delimit the commission's powers and to transfer competence in the regulation and supervision of competition in the railway sector to a single regulatory authority. in this respect, the proposal would merit considerable clarification.
in writing. − i support different ways of financing cinema digitisation at political level. i consider the structural funds to be one of the most important funding instruments. the relevant aid intensity must therefore be included in the new financial perspective for the period 2014-2020. the european regional development fund has already helped some cinemas to better cope with the challenges of digitalisation. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the cinema operator in the form of a grant of eur [...] per cinema operator. i appreciate the importance of the media programme, which since its inception 20 years ago has contributed to favourable financial conditions for european distributors and has made a significant contribution to the development and promotion of european films. new initiatives need to be developed under the media programme to improve and promote translation, dubbing, the use of common or large subtitles, and also training programmes to enable audiovisual and film industry representatives to adapt their knowledge to digital technologies.
in writing. i very much appreciate almost all the contributions to the debate on the issue of the coexistence of roma with the majority population in the member states. unlike previous debates on this subject, i welcomed the openness with which some colleagues have spoken about things that were previously taboo. finding a solution for the 10 million roma minority in the eu will not be easy. given the different attitudes towards roma in different countries, and also on the basis of historical experience, it will be very difficult to find a uniform strategy applicable in all member states.
the rapporteur. - madam president, the aim of the legislation we voted on in part on tuesday, when we approved three of the four proposed legislative standards, is to ensure the continuation of the nuclear research programme for 2012 and 2013. the 7th framework programme for science and research covers a seven-year period, the euratom framework programme a five-year period, so it was necessary to secure funding for two years. the euratom framework programme covers research activities in the fields of nuclear energy, nuclear fusion and fission, radiation protection and the development of expertise in these fields. it is part of a legislative package containing draft decisions on the framework programme itself, on the two specific programmes for direct and indirect actions and on the rules for participation in the programme. as a reporter, i've had the opportunity to work with other shadow reporters, and i thank them very much for that cooperation. i would also like to thank the other institutions with which i have worked, including the joint research centre, which has provided me with expertise and valuable information throughout. all the time i've been working on the news, i've been emphasizing that this legislation is about research, not the use of nuclear energy. there are different views on the use of nuclear energy for electricity generation and in the energy mix, which we all have to respect. the member states have ultimate competence in this area. the field of nuclear research is different. there is a need to collect scientific knowledge and fund further research simply because these phenomena are part of the reality of the world. if we do not investigate them, our competitors from other continents will, and this will have a negative impact on our competitiveness and lead to our falling behind. in my report, i tried to reflect on the world after the fukushima tragedy. i tried to highlight the issues in favor of countries that have decided to phase out nuclear power. i stressed the importance of research into nuclear dismantling, safety improvements and the safe management of nuclear waste. in this context, i would like to emphasize one thing. since the beginning of the negotiations on these four reports, our green colleagues have tabled a large number of amendments aimed at eliminating the budgetary items of this programme and limiting it as much as possible. the vast majority of these proposals were rejected in the committee vote, and unfortunately yesterday's vote on the direct actions of the joint research centre approved amendment no 9, which partially limits the commission's original text on actinide research. this research is fundamental and could lead to a nuclear waste treatment that would significantly reduce the amount of longer-lived isotopes, thus making a significant contribution to environmental protection. this research is also important for the development of new medical applications for the benefit of all europeans. ladies and gentlemen, european nuclear research and training is essential to enhance competitiveness, economic growth and the achievement of european scientific excellence. i therefore urge you to support this programme.
for the ecr group. madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr březina, for the material he has presented and for his work. in an age when access to nuclear technology is often accompanied by an exaggerated, even hysterical, atmosphere caused by the events at fukushima, it is difficult to have a rational discussion. fortunately, that's not the case here in the courtroom. the argument put forward in the report that it is important to pay more attention to nuclear research and development of new technologies, particularly after the events in japan, is correct. it is new approaches and technological practices that are not only improving the operational safety of nuclear installations, but also advancing knowledge for other fields. nuclear facilities are not just for power plants, but they are used in many other fields, they are indispensable in health care or in materials research, genetics and other fields. i therefore fully support the view that nuclear research is needed after fukushima, rather than simply condemning these technologies. as a shadow rapporteur, i am pleased that the text also mentions support for the technology of fourth generation fast neutron reactors. these reactors have higher safety, while having higher efficiency of utilization of uranium fuel while producing lower levels of radioactive waste. one of the largest research programmes in which the european union is involved is the iter project. nuclear fusion is perhaps the best hope for solving the world's growing energy needs. this project, with its enormous financial demands, requires very good coordination and financial control. supervision of this project is essential to ensure that it does not become mere research without a resulting effect. as the ecr shadow rapporteur, i fully support and recommend the report by mr březina.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, i also join those who appreciate the work of mr březina. especially in the post-fukushima atmosphere, i find the documentary to be of high quality and balanced. nuclear energy is viewed with a great deal of emotion and populism. under this pressure, many react irrationally, without a professional, reasoned approach. the questions of fission and fusion, as well as the handling of the products of these processes, require the utmost prudence and responsibility in the interests of legitimately required safety. perhaps paradoxically, we need even more development and research as well as maintaining the level of training of people. and enough money to pay for everything. i disagree with the demands given the decision of some countries to curb their nuclear programmes to limit these activities. the availability of trained specialists will logically play a significant role in the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. it is clear that we will not close the nuclear power station by simply turning off the switch, as my colleague mrs vălean said before me. we all understand that such a resource doesn't end when the doorman locks the doors of the establishment. one of the amendments in the document supports strengthening the communication of information to the public. i think it's extremely important because information about what's going on in nuclear power is literally a weapon. by the way, the opponents of this carbon-free resource are very skilled at using information ammunition, which is often distorted. in the interests of future competitiveness, we have no choice but to seek new sources. the union is involved in the nuclear fusion project. iter is not just building a new high-tech industry, it's creating new jobs. i consider it our duty to find funding for the continuation of the iter project, as well as for the experimental facility jet, which is its laboratory. i took the job to learn about the successful work of the international team in culham, england. we should give him a financial perspective beyond 2012. under the pressure of the crisis, we cannot just be driven by the need to cut budgets. we need to be clear about our priorities for the future, or we'll be in crisis for the rest of our lives. and without energy, including nuclear fission and fusion, europe will be nowhere.
madam president, allow me to begin by applauding the report by my colleague mr březina. the extension of the 7th framework programme for nuclear energy is a logical step. this is to ensure compatibility with the existing financial perspective until 2013. we all know that the compromise proposal, which i personally support and which contains many improvements in the field of nuclear safety, was drawn up in the council with great difficulty and delay. i appreciate the many improvements in simplifying the programme, including the reduction of administrative burdens. key comments, mainly on security aspects, were made by austria and luxembourg, which had long blocked the agreement and had left negotiations at a standstill. even the compromise proposal of the hungarian presidency was considered by these states at the time to be insufficiently responsive to their requirements. however, it is now important that the legislative proposal is adopted as soon as possible, but no later than the end of 2011, so that the programme can continue from 2012. the european parliament should therefore not be too complicated to step on the spot, to bring politics into expert issues, and should approve the text without emotion.
the reporter. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you once again for your contribution to the debate. whatever you mentioned about any of the elements of this very broad field of research, it was in a constructive way. whether it was the integration of nuclear research carried out by the esnii industrial initiative or the european strategic energy technology plan set into strategy 2020. whether you have stressed the urgency of time to address budgetary issues in relation to both the jet project and the iter programme. whether you emphasized education and the need to train engineers or the advantage of fourth-generation nuclear reactors, it was all in a positive direction. thank you very much for these comments, but let me make one general comment. this debate, which should not have taken place because this report, or these four reports, were originally to have been discussed without debate, was initiated by the green group. i have been dealing with the amendments of this group all this time and i was not bothered because i respect the different political views of my colleagues. but to have someone call a debate and then not one member of this group participates in the debate, sounds to me like a certain disregard for democratic principles. i felt an inner urge to say this.
the eu-georgia association agreement is a highly contradictory document. the european union has agreed that the main thing is to change the legislation and to give verbal approval to any demands of the eu negotiators. the rest will come. the important thing is to criticize russia, not to recognize the independence of south ossetia and abkhazia and to declare that georgia is a european state. i consider that to be one of the many unnecessary claims in this report. the document does not mention the issue of the abolished third autonomous entity (along with south ossetia and abkhazia). her liquidation apparently escaped the negotiators. it would be interesting to see how the exemplary application of democratic principles required by the text for the so-called occupied territories is progressing in this case. the individual chapters illustrate the range of problems that need to be addressed in stages. it is practically all areas of law, justice and security. similarly, in the chapter on economic and sectoral cooperation, it is clear that the country is only at the beginning of a difficult journey and is struggling to meet the basic requirements of international standards. the road to closer relations with the european union is clearly still very long and winding. the citizenship manipulation we're hearing about is definitely not a good sign on this journey. the gue/ngl group and i personally are not opposed to the agreement, however.
in writing. overfishing poses a serious threat to biodiversity and the sustainable marine environment. this situation is exacerbated by illegal fishing, which further exacerbates the social and economic impacts of the loss of fish stocks. last but not least, potential food security risks are increasing, given that fish and other seafood are the primary source of protein for more than a billion people on earth. the problem with illegal fishing is not that there are no means of monitoring or securing evidence in case of infringement. the problem is that everyone is always making excuses, and so far half a million tonnes of illegally caught fish worth over €1 billion are being imported into the eu every year. the lack of political will is hurting both european fishermen and fish stocks. so, the origin tests using the world's dna database today cost about eight euros per sample, and you don't have to do a lot of them, you just have to do them randomly. and if we can pay someone to use satellites to photograph or listen to anyone on the planet, we can sometimes use this technology for something sensible. here, too, the cost is not so staggering compared with the losses caused by illegal fishing. it is therefore necessary to review the adequacy of control mechanisms and their application in practice.
in writing. i abstained on the report on the further development of an integrated maritime policy. as a member of the european parliament from the inland state, i was led to do so for the following reason. the integrated maritime policy has so far been paid for by funds enabling the financing of pilot and preparatory projects and supported by the cohesion fund, the european regional development fund, the european fisheries fund, the 7th research framework programme or the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument and other related programmes. the new activities of the maritime states should be financed from a specific envelope, with the commission proposing to allocate eur 50 million for the years 2011 to 2013. while i support the commission's efforts to coordinate maritime-related activities of the maritime states, in view of the need for efficient spending, i do not consider it appropriate to create additional budgetary commitments for this area. but as a resident of the inland state, i have no direct interest in this area, so i decided to stay.
in writing. i call on the commission to ensure the consistent application and implementation of the existing eu regulatory framework in the field of telecommunications and to assess, within six months of the publication of the findings of the berec investigation, whether further regulatory action is needed to ensure freedom of expression, free access to information, free choice for consumers and media pluralism, as well as to achieve effective competition and innovation and to deliver broad benefits for citizens, businesses and public authorities using the internet. the commission should ensure that internet service providers do not block, discriminate against, restrict or reduce the ability of any person to use the services to view, use, send, publish, receive or offer any content, application or service of his or her choice, regardless of the source or destination. the commission must provide the ep with information on current practices in the area of internet traffic management, the connectivity market and network congestion, as well as on any possible link to underinvestment and the issue of 'device neutrality' to undertake further analysis.
in writing. − i support the opening of negotiations on a deep and comprehensive free trade area as soon as possible once georgia has implemented the key recommendations put forward by the commission and endorsed by the eu member states in order to allow georgia to be more closely integrated with its largest trading partner, which is necessary to sustain georgia's economic growth and overcome the economic crisis and the damage caused by the 2008 war with russia. it should be noted that the georgian government has made significant efforts in recent years to open up the country's economy to the outside world by introducing very low industrial tariffs, adopting a legal and administrative framework facilitating trade and investment, and promoting the rule of law. i would highlight the progress georgia has made in improving legislation, increasing the efficiency of institutions and ensuring strict quality control standards for georgian products in order to meet the requirements set by the european commission. the eu should provide financial and technical support to georgia to ensure the continuation of the legislative and institutional reforms necessary to adapt to a deep and comprehensive free trade area and to accelerate the process of putting into practice the key recommendations set out in the eu-georgia action plan. it is important that georgia ensures proper disposal of toxic and radioactive waste on its territory as a necessary precondition for trade facilitation, in particular with regard to agriculture, in order to ensure food safety.
in writing. on 17 november, the european parliament's plenary adopted a report on mainstreaming gender equality in the work of the european parliament. the main objective of gender mainstreaming is to change the nature and institutions of traditional politics to take more account of the needs, expectations and experiences of the whole of society, both women and men. parliament hereby undertakes to adopt and implement on a regular basis a gender mainstreaming policy plan in the european parliament, the overall objective of which is to promote equality between women and men through a genuine and effective gender perspective in all policies and activities, in order to assess the different impacts of measures on women and men, coordinate existing initiatives and identify objectives and priorities as well as the means to achieve them. i personally consider it a very important commitment to integrate gender analysis into all stages of the budgetary process to ensure that the needs and priorities of women and men are taken into account equally and to assess the impact of the allocation of eu resources to women and men. i consider this approach to budgeting to be crucial in the context of the fight for gender equality, which is why i supported the report.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolution on iran – recent cases of human rights violations see minutes..
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolution on egypt, in particular the case of blogger alaa abdel fatah see minutes..
for the group gue/ngl mr. chairman, the case of blogger alaa abd al-fattah is just a small symbolic example of the helplessness of our politics. the celebrations of the arab spring, when, with the help of the european union states, unknown people with unknown aims and interests come to power, end in the arrest of people who are guilty of one thing, that is, of their own opinion. we must learn once and for all that we cannot support people for whom the slogans of human rights and democracy are just a spanish wall behind which they hide the desire for power and the defence of their own privileges. most of the problems of north africa and the middle east are long-term and have social roots, often intrinsically linked to european colonialism. successful, and mostly warlike, solutions to such problems only lead to new problems, often worse. but, as we saw before the invasion of iraq, instead of seeking compromises, ways of understanding and change, we are seeing a policy of confrontation which makes any manoeuvre impossible. i must emphasize again that it is easier to make war than to make peace. easier and cheaper. do we really need to have millions of iraqi refugees or a bombed-out sirte behind our policies? the task of europe is to be a cultured and unambiguous promotion of human rights, which does not apply a double-track policy. i agree with the turkish calls for an expedited solution to the situation in syria. but i don't understand why it's possible to use violence to suppress kurdish rebels and not to use violence to suppress syrian rebels. the fate of alaa abd al-fattaah should remind us that human rights are indivisible.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
i adjourn the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this item on the agenda is called ‘preparations for the european council meeting’, but sometimes i do not know to which european council we are referring. at the moment, i have the feeling that we have at least two councils: one council is the formal one which is represented by 27 member states and takes place occasionally according to an agreed schedule. the other one has only two members who are mr sarkozy and mrs merkel, and it seems to be in session permanently. this is the one which really decides. that, by the way, is a good example and good evidence that when hard times arrive the whole so-called community method turns into a big illusion and it is the powerful ones who decide. please do not get me wrong, this is not sarcasm. i have a certain understanding for mrs merkel because – there are many quotations in many languages and i will use the english one – ‘he who pays the piper, calls the tune’. and germany pays. mr schulz is right, germany pays. but it also wants some pay-back. that pay-back is the ultimate control over fiscal policy of all the eurozone members. if all of you in the eurozone want to keep the same currency you must be prepared for that; you must be prepared to give up your fiscal sovereignty. perhaps you can even save some public money by dissolving your national finance ministries, because you will not need them anymore. your national budgets will be drawn up somewhere else. anyway, this is your responsibility in the eurozone. i can only wish you good luck. however, i cannot agree with one thing. i cannot agree with this fiscal protectorate being spread over all 27 member states, as mr schäuble proposed only very recently. that is something which is unacceptable because one thing is clear from now on: today, there are two european unions within one. we definitely have a two-tier europe: we have the eurozone and the non-eurozone. this is not disintegration. that does not mean an end to the european union. this is just a reality that should be not only admitted but should be also reflected in our actions. therefore both parts of the european union must remain equal. eurozone members should not be superior to non-eurozone members and the eurozone cannot just automatically drag the others with them. any further arrangement must recognise this reality. it does not matter whether this is a treaty change or some other ways and means, such as an enhanced stability pact. if the eurozone states want to move forward in one direction, they must allow the others to move in their own direction as well. this is no longer a one-way street. this is reality. no longer do we go at the same speed and in the same direction. to use this crisis only as a platform in order to pursue further the project of political union and to further centralise power is short-sighted. it is wrong and in the end it will tear the eu apart. it is also wrong to accuse others of wanting to destroy the euro. no one wants to destroy the euro here, definitely not my group, because our countries are very much dependent on the stability of the eurozone. we are not opposing the very existence of the euro; what we are opposing are wrong measures which will not save the euro. the eu must either be flexible or multispeed, whatever you wish to call it, or unfortunately very soon there will be no eu – with or without the euro.
madam president, i am very pleased to see the successful conclusion of the accession negotiations with croatia. his reforms are an example for other countries in the region. croatia's accession to the union also guarantees stability in the western balkans, which until recently was plagued by armed conflicts. i'm doubly pleased because of the great relationship with the czech people and the deep bilateral ties between our two nations in our long history. i am all the more sorry that it is the czech republic that can complicate the ratification of the treaty of accession of croatia. thanks to the stubbornness of our president and social democracy, croatia is in danger of becoming a hostage in the dispute over the toothless klaus protocol to the eu charter of fundamental rights, even though this protocol does not create any exception for the czech republic from the scope of the charter, so that neither the social security of czech citizens nor the beneš decrees are in any way affected by this protocol. but i want to assure you that the czech people are very keen to see croatia admitted as soon as possible. it will also be a symbol of the attractiveness and viability of the european union.
in writing. croatia's upcoming accession to the eu is good news for croatia, the western balkans and the european union. it also demonstrates that the thesis of 'enlargement fatigue' within the eu member states or institutions has no real basis. still, it cannot be ruled out that he will continue to survive. especially if the speculation that the enlargement process in the balkans will now be paused, allegedly until 2020, is fulfilled. that would be a problem. and a large one. the western balkans are the most vulnerable to the economic and financial crisis. the eu's credibility is diminishing here. kosovo's independence, even though it was recognized by the eu, made the states of the region insecure. so let's speed up the expansion process. waiting until 2020 can be fatal. let us start by saying that the european council will grant serbia candidate status on 9 december with a date for opening accession negotiations. i expect croatia to do its utmost to help other states in the region join the eu as soon as possible. i am thinking in particular of serbia and bosnia and herzegovina. i also expect that no croatian prime minister will send public or private greetings to persons on trial by the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia for war crimes.
in writing. i welcome the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs that the european parliament give its consent to the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union and to the council decision accepting the application for accession. if the european parliament approves the recommendations, the accession treaty will be signed at the european council on 9 december this year and we will welcome croatia as the 28th member of the eu on 1 july 2013. i trust that the eu member states will complete the ratification process in time, even in these turbulent times. the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu is a very positive signal at a time of growing anti-european tendencies. it is also a signal to all of us that it is possible to work together for the benefit of citizens and that life goes on regardless of the blackmail or intimidation by all those anonymous circles who are so annoyed by a united europe and the european union. i see the signing of the accession treaty as a proof of the credibility and quality of the european enlargement policy. in view of the traditionally good relations between the czech republic and croatia, i am particularly pleased that the accession comes at a time when the czech commissioner, mr štefan fülle, is responsible for enlargement and neighbourhood policy, and i warmly congratulate him on this.
in writing. the report addresses, among other issues, budgetary discipline not only within the euro area but also within all eu member states. as one aspect of the introduction of a common economic and budgetary policy for the euro area countries, the report states that the experience of spillovers of budgetary problems from one country to another, affecting all euro area members, clearly demonstrates the need for greater coordination and cooperation in the field of economic and budgetary policies. personally, i consider it a good call for member states to involve and regularly consult national and regional parliaments, social partners and civil society in the preparation of national reform and development and cohesion programmes. it shows that, if integrated surveillance of economic policies is to be effective, it must not be limited to the evaluation of the budgetary and structural policies of the eu member states, but must be consistent with objectives and actions at eu level, as well as with the size and nature of the union's financial resources. eu policies and actions under the eu 2020 strategy are therefore crucial in this respect, in particular as regards cohesion, research and innovation policies.
mr president, in my view the internal market is the only instrument that can promote growth and employment in europe. the single market has, of course, its own story, which is over 20 years old, and the single market forum held in warsaw has its own story. the idea was started by my colleague louise grech, but i met him personally in a discussion with my colleagues róża gräfin von thun und hohenstein and mario monti. i think that we should not only thank the commission but also all our colleagues in the committee, because i think this forum has been a great success. the fact that our colleague róża gräfin von thun und hohenstein was yesterday awarded the prize for the best mep in the committee on the internal market is proof that this was a success. so i'd like to congratulate her on behalf of the other colleagues.
in writing. the single market forum, hosted by krakow, poland, this year was a landmark event. it has enabled, for the first time, a truly comprehensive debate on the single market. i am pleased that, in addition to the regular participants in such meetings, the forum has also included the general public and that european citizens have had a unique opportunity to express their expectations or existing obstacles to the functioning of the single market. i believe that the forum was the first in a long series of similarly thematically focused meetings, and that others will follow in the coming years. i consider it crucial to strengthen the debate with the general public in view of the development of the single market. i therefore welcome the fact that the resolution adopted calls on both the commission and the member states to involve citizens more closely in the development of the single market. the call for public consultations to be available in all the eu's official languages and to be more understandable is certainly appropriate. statistics clearly show how much potential is being underutilized. i hope that this call will finally be heard and taken into account by the commission. let us enable citizens to participate more actively at european level. this can only help the successful functioning of the single market, which we all want.
mr president, the debate today, and not only today, is about whether the single currency will be saved by an amendment to the treaty of lisbon, closer fiscal coordination, the dependence or independence of the european central bank, the european minister for finance or the european monetary fund. i think we need to ask a more general question, and i think a much more serious one. is this the euro crisis or is this the debt crisis? in this context, it is necessary to ask whether these are debts that are the cause of the current situation or are a consequence of the current situation, and whether they are debts that have arisen over the last few years or are the consequence of developments in europe over the last long decade. in this case, i do not think that the current difficulties of the euro need to be seen as a euro crisis, because these difficulties have only revealed deep structural problems in part of the european area. the call for fiscal responsibility in the member states is therefore right. however, in such a case, we are faced with the question of whether human behaviour, accustomed to the very high demands of the european welfare state or the european welfare state, will change. if we don't have the courage to make significant reforms, even transform the welfare state, and get rid of the heavy budgetary costs, then we're going to have a very hard time getting out of the current difficulties.
mr president, it was not easy to reach agreement on the draft budget this year, and we know that the compromise reached was adopted by a fragile majority in the council. the total expenditure of just over €129 billion, an increase of 1.86%, reflects in my view the consolidation efforts of the member states at national level and the reality of the economic situation in which the european continent finds itself today. simply put, european spending has managed to keep itself in check and below the expected inflation threshold in times of crisis. for me personally, as coordinator of our group in the committee on regional development, the main priority when deciding on the 2012 budget was, is and will continue to be to ensure that there is enough money for cohesion, i.e. for heading 1b, to cover all the commitments of previous years. it is therefore essential for us that the budget agreement includes a strong common commitment to payments under point 3.1 to ensure sufficient funding for the cohesion policy area if necessary.
in writing. − the eu2020 strategy to which the member states have committed themselves must not remain on paper. it therefore needs to be adequately funded, in particular its key pillars, i.e. lifelong learning, research and innovation. in the light of the recent political changes in the mediterranean, in the context of the so-called arab spring, it is clear that a strong neighbourhood policy is also essential for european stability and prosperity. the report by mr böge proposes that the funding gaps in these key policies, which the council is forced to fill despite previous commitments, be filled by means of the flexibility instrument. the commission and the ep consider this to be the best way forward, and i would like to support it.
in writing. − the use of repayable instruments, as provided for in the 2007-13 general regulation governing the structural funds, has been subject to some degree of legal uncertainty regarding their use. in order to regularise this anomalous situation, and in light of the intervention of the court of auditors, the commission believed it necessary to introduce a general definition of repayable assistance. i supported proposed changes which promote the usage of innovative financial instruments, which could support revenue generating projects, alongside more traditional sources of funding, such as non-reimbursable grants. i am satisfied that the proposal provides clarity about the legality of existing legal practices in our member states. the parliament’s report also reduces the administrative burden on the part of the member states by limiting some of the proposed additional reporting obligations by the commission to those required by the court of auditors.
in writing. − this proposal aims to harness cohesion policy in order to provide additional financial resources to member states such as greece and portugal, which face huge difficulties in managing their debts. this proposal allows for additional financial assistance through cohesion policy by allowing for a temporary "top-up" increase of present co-financing rates by up to 10%. while cohesion policy can be used as a tool to assist those member states who are struggling to finance quality public investments, it is questionable whether this proposal is an adequate reaction to the economic and fiscal problems in the member states concerned. in many ways, it is just as important to pay attention to the quality of the supported projects and their potential contribution to economic growth, rather than merely seeking to maximise absorption rates of structural and cohesion funding in the member states concerned. moreover, the proposed arrangement can appear unfair, in that operational programmes in member states which managed their public finances more carefully will be subject to less favourable co-financing conditions than those member states such as greece, thereby creating a perverse reward for financial irresponsibility. given these factors i was unable to support this proposed measure and opted to abstain.
in writing. − article 349 of the treaty authorises the member states of france, spain and portugal to provide for a difference between the taxation of local products and the taxation of products from other member states. this was introduced on the basis of the perceived permanent handicaps that affect the economic and social conditions of these "outermost regions", as they are defined in the treaty. this report accepts the commission's proposal to extend the application of exemptions from and reductions in a tax known as aiem for certain products produced locally in the canary islands. in line with consistent ecr policy on such article 349 measures, i have refused to support this report in committee, on the basis that the treaty provision grants an unfair advantage to the three member states concerned, even though all member states have their own peripheral regions and yet cannot benefit from such exemptions from harmonising community provisions on vat.
in writing. − article 349 of the treaty authorises the member states of france, spain and portugal to provide for a difference between the taxation of local products and the taxation of products from other member states. this was introduced on the basis of the perceived permanent handicaps that affect the economic and social conditions of these ‘outermost regions’, as they are defined in the treaty. this latest article 349 measure concerns rum produced in french overseas departments and sold on the french mainland with a reduced rate of excise duty. the reduction is limited to an annual quota of 108 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol. the commission’s proposal is extend this special tax exemption for two additional years until december 2013, and to increase the annual quota concerned to 125 000 hl. i have voted against such article 349 measures, on the basis that the treaty provision grants an unfair advantage to the three member states concerned, even though all member states have their own peripheral regions and yet cannot benefit from such exemptions from harmonising community provisions on vat.
in writing. the proportion of pupils who leave school early is already very low in the czech republic. the czech republic, alongside slovakia, poland and slovenia, has long been one of the four member states with the lowest rate of early school leaving and is also relatively well below the eu target for 2020 of 5.6% (the eu average was 14.9% in 2008). i was against this report when it was being discussed because i do not think that we will solve the situation by developing free public nurseries and day care facilities or by providing extracurricular activities and clubs by the member states as proposed in the report. at the same time, i am wary of the effect of the proposed social mapping of early school leavers by centralising and collecting data from all member states here in brussels. rather than the activist measures that the report calls for, i think that we should focus on analysing the specific causes of early school leaving and responding immediately to the deterioration of the situation, i.e. increasing the percentage of early school leaving.
- the regulation on statistical returns in respect of the carriage of goods by road provides for the obligation of the member states to send statistical data on road freight transport to eurostat. i have no objections to this regulation, although i express reservations about the delegation of power to the european commission to adopt implementing measures by means of delegated acts. i also consider it important to consult proposals at expert level when preparing delegated acts, with the commission ensuring that the administrative burden on member states and reporting agents is not significantly increased.
in writing. i recommend a high degree of caution before calling for deeper integration in the customs area. i am therefore very pleased that the amendment to create a new european customs agency has been rejected. in the area of customs modernisation, it is important that all member states communicate with each other and apply a unified approach, rather than deeper integration, transfer of powers and the creation of other transnational institutions, as is often suggested by some. in order to increase the competitiveness of businesses, it is important to focus on simplifying customs procedures and standardising customs thresholds, as well as on applying the 'one stop shop' principle in customs procedures. we should pay particular attention to the protection of intellectual property rights and its link to customs procedures.
- simplification of the customs system in the form indicated can help all the parties involved to some extent in a number of areas. it should be economically beneficial, facilitative, efficient. the promotion and facilitation of trading conditions is one, but a very important part. another, equally important part is to increase the efficiency of customs procedures themselves and to improve the effectiveness of the fight against illicit trade. i believe that this will enable the competent customs authorities to fulfil their obligations under the law better and in many cases will facilitate their work.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, in some cases we are taking decisions which may have consequences for the citizens of the union for decades to come. often our attitude will affect the lives of our children, while we may not even be able to verify whether we voted for a meaningful project. and iter is one of them. the prospect of nuclear fusion succeeding, however, is very appealing, and frankly, we don't have many options for how to deal with a situation where we run out of energy resources. that is why i am convinced of the need to support the iter project. yes, it's expensive, yes, the outcome is not 100% clear, but there is a chance. without bold decisions, humanity would not advance and move forward. to fund such ambitious programmes as the nuclear fusion reactor, we should. i am glad that all the problems are finally being solved, and i hope that they will be despite the alleged recent obstruction by some member states. and so europe will not be an untrustworthy partner for partners such as the united states, russia, japan, india and others. i don't know if it's entirely accurate to say that the current cost of iter represents only 3% of the us military budget last year. but it just goes to show that the money that's been spent so senselessly, as some people try to say, is not for us.
for the ecr group. madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the other colleagues who have contributed to the drafting of this extremely important directive. the protection of victims must not be limited by national borders, as victims often move to escape violence. in our common area without internal borders, it is therefore essential that protection measures can also be applied in another member state without having to initiate new legal proceedings after relocation in order to re-establish the protection measure. i fully support the aim of this directive and welcome the fact that the co-decision process has managed to make some fundamental changes and that the group of european conservatives and reformists can now support this final version. the amendments i have in mind concern mainly the scope of the european protection order and also the legal basis for issuing the european protection order. i welcome the fact that the current wording provides for a sufficient degree of flexibility in cooperation between member states in providing protection for victims of all crimes. i am very pleased that this directive allows us to provide protection for victims of all crimes without imposing an obligation to change the national systems of the member states and that it takes account of the different legal traditions of the member states. it would be a great pity if this important issue, and i am referring to the protection of all victims of crime throughout europe, were to be called into question by further unnecessary harmonisation within the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i think we can hardly call it a success. we have seen another emergency measure which aims to restore fiscal stability – definitely a step in the right direction, but not sufficient. we have not seen any proposals on how to restore economic growth in europe and we have seen europe more divided that ever before in an unprecedented way. some of you are still talking about 26 and i do not think that any of you are entitled to speak on behalf of 26. so please stop it, it is not true. none of you are entitled to speak for 26 member countries. we have 17 eurozone countries and even those are divided into two parts – those who will pay and those who will be paid. i am sorry for germany, the netherlands, austria and finland – guys, you will pay a whole lot of money and your taxpayers will probably thank you very much for that. then we have of course nine non-eurozone countries that might or might not join the plan. this is still under question and some of them might be very reluctant. of course there is the issue of the united kingdom, which some of you decided to make a scapegoat for all that mess. i have to defend this country, because what mr cameron did was just a defence of his country’s national interest in the same way that mr sarkozy and mrs merkel did. they pretend that they are speaking on behalf of europe, but they are speaking on behalf of themselves only. so you have no reason to criticise the united kingdom, nor its government. i think where we are now is very clear. we are in the situation of a multi-speed europe. it is a reality. when times get hard, when times get tough, the community method evaporates and we go into governmental. when we go into governmental the commission and parliament are completely sidelined, and if we are going into governmental there is an open question about the legal validity of that intergovernmental treaty or agreement – or whatever you call it – and its compatibility with eu primary law. but the truth is that we are in a situation of a multi-speed europe and where we are now is a result of a misleading, ever-closer union policy and a one-size-fits-all effort. we will pay economically very dearly for that. we will pay very dearly for that wrong ideologically-motivated strife to maintain the eurozone at any cost. i can only repeat that this is not the eu policy for the 21st century. you might like it or not, but if you do not get it you might perhaps scrape through this crisis, but others will inevitably come and their consequences might be detrimental. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i am very much afraid that it seems that mr leichtfried, as a member of the socialist group, seems to misunderstand a little bit the role of the financial sector in the european economy. this is not only a question of the city; this is a question of the entire prosperity of the entire european union because i can assure you, mr leichtfried, that our economies are mutually intertwined. if one economy suffers, the others will suffer as well.
madam president, i voted in favour of the recommendation on the future fishing arrangements under the agreement of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. the mediterranean is the most endangered aquatic ecosystem in europe. many species of fish, coral, and other animals have been fished so massively that some species have been driven to extinction. a whole host of others are highly endangered. the problem is that within a species, individuals with similar dna make-up survive, making the entire local ecosystem more vulnerable. the slightest change in the food chain, pollution, or climate can lead to the extinction of other species. the work of this committee is therefore essential to protect biodiversity, reduce the amount of catches that can be taken and increase the number of reserves where fishing is prohibited. with its approach, humanity has placed fishing among the most endangered of all activities, and now humanity must help it regenerate. fishermen may have less work today, but they must have work in the future. a total withdrawal would result in the permanent loss of the fishery as an industry. it is our duty to preserve the biodiversity of species and fisheries for future generations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of a directive on eu citizens and their rights when they become parties to criminal proceedings. in such cases, whether in the person's home state or in another member state, a fair trial must be ensured in accordance with the case law of the european court of human rights. this means that fundamental procedural rights such as the right to consult a lawyer or, if necessary, to have documents interpreted or translated, must be respected. i consider it useful that this report amends the commission proposal to ensure that the directive will apply to all forms of restriction of personal liberty, regardless of how the member states classify the procedure under which the suspect has been deprived of his liberty. no one can know in advance how long a suspect will be held in police custody or how long he will be deprived of his liberty. although the various rights listed in the bill of rights may not always be relevant, a suspect or accused person is nevertheless entitled to receive written information on his or her procedural rights without delay.
in writing. - some member states are facing budgetary constraints as a result of the financial and budgetary crisis, which may prevent them from meeting their commitments under the community's co-financed programmes, in particular the structural funds. i therefore understand that, on the basis of these facts, the commission is proposing to temporarily increase the maximum share of union co-financing for programmes under way in member states benefiting from the european financial stability mechanism currently greece, ireland and portugal and from the balance of payments facility for non-euro area member states currently latvia and romania. this temporary increase in community co-financing, which would be granted at the request of the member state concerned, would reduce the corresponding amount of funds needed in the financial years 2011 and 2012. this should contribute to the overall economic recovery in those member states. it is important to me that the commission proposal does not provide for any additional commitment appropriations. the payment of the additional appropriations needed to finance the increased eu support will be carried over from the financial year 2013 to the financial years 2011 and 2012. there will be no transfer of financial allocations between member states, and that is why i was able to support this proposal.
draftsman of the committee on industry, research and energy. - mr president, i am here as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy on this subject. there is a strong likelihood that the financial crisis and the associated budget cuts will lead to programme cuts with a negative impact on the defence industry. the absence of a common policy in this area may further exacerbate the negative impact on the defence industry. while a common arms policy makes economic sense, it can also threaten the sovereignty of individual member states. for these reasons, european defence policy should lead to greater multilateral cooperation, but also take into account the national specificities of the defence industry. more specifically, to mitigate the impact of the financial crisis on the defence industry, it is necessary to consider greater demand consolidation, for example in the areas of joint scientific research projects or pooling of demand for shared capacities. exports help some firms to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis and some are not internationally competitive. these firms should continue to diversify their portfolios, for example into civil security.
in writing. the european parliament's contribution to the european neighbourhood policy (enp) evaluation process is certainly needed, among other things, to illustrate our continued interest in this topic. and perhaps our recommendations will also help us to avoid being caught off guard by events as we were earlier this year by the arab spring. the evaluation could also, in its conclusions, prevent attempts to 'buy democracy' for belarus for usd 9 billion or prevent a repetition of the undignified level of representation of member countries at enp events, such as this year's eastern partnership summit in warsaw. this is not what the qualified polish presidency deserved. my reservation also applies to the current government of the czech republic. as regards the southern dimension of the enp, it is essential that the diversity of the civilisation, culture, religion and historical traditions of the peoples of this region be strongly respected in the implementation of the ep recommendations. this is practically the conditio sine qua non for the success of the enp towards the mediterranean. we also need to explain to our constituents why political islam doesn't matter anymore. for example, the suppression of the muslim brotherhood movement in egypt was seen as a war on terrorism for the last ten years. at the same time, it's up to us to convince our voters that their money for the southern dimension will not end the arab winter. otherwise, they'll be told about us by geert wilders, marine le pen or pia kjersgaard.
in writing. neighborhood policy is one of the most important policies. it should be stressed that the resolution on the issue already contains a somewhat vague formulation in recital b: 'eu overall policy in the epc should be based on values'. this vague wording does not indicate how individual eu countries will pay off debts that have not been paid by the gaddafi regime, nor does it indicate whether this is the way to go about silent support for the various islamist groups that have gained significant strength in the recent elections in the arab maghreb states. the question is what values the union as a whole and the individual countries promote. the creation of the euro-mediterranean erasmus and leonardo da vinci programmes is a clear positive step. but the resolution does not indicate whether the eu's policy towards its neighbours in the near future will be based on openness to these partners or on the search for ways to strengthen the external border, the 'schengen solidity'. it is very strange that the resolution does not criticize the dictatorial elements of the regime in georgia at all and seems to ignore the continuing delay in the declaration of a palestinian state. the parts concerning belarus go beyond the bounds of good taste by their interference in the internal affairs of a neighboring state, while a number of negative phenomena in turkey's foreign policy, such as the occupation of part of cyprus, are overlooked. for these reasons, the gue/ngl group cannot support this motion for a resolution.
mr president, it is certainly in the interests of consumers to be able to distinguish when buying drinks between genuine fruit juices and drinks made from concentrated nectar. in this respect, it is certainly a clarification of the directive and it is going in the right direction. however, i have followed with concern the proposals to introduce a new obligation to label nectars with the words 'sweetened' or 'added sugar' followed by a maximum amount of added sugar calculated as dry matter and expressed in grams per litre. such a change would be highly confusing for consumers and would clearly have a negative economic impact on producers. nectars would become the only category of soft drinks for which the amount of added sugar would have to be compulsorily indicated, which would put those products at a significant disadvantage compared with other drinks. so i'm glad that common sense prevailed and this bill didn't pass. the citizens of the czech republic will also be pleased to learn that despite the euro crisis, the european institutions have managed to resolve a long-standing dispute over whether tomatoes are a vegetable or a fruit. this european directive establishes once and for all that tomatoes are, like the quinoa, a fruit. i have my doubts, however, about amendment no 22, which also considers carrots to be fruit. i'm afraid i can't convince the czech gardener of that.
in writing. i am convinced that the polish presidency has been a success and its results contrast sharply with those of the czech and hungarian presidencies. the poles have coped very well with the very difficult situation that has arisen in the eu, and what i like most is that after years of the then leadership's collusion with the euro-monger klaus, they have turned into a strong pro-european power.
in writing. − fruit juices produced in the european union are high-quality products that contribute to a healthy and balanced diet and are produced according to sustainability standards that are supported by our legislation. it is therefore important to guarantee the high quality of all products sold on the european market. without calling into question any import policy, the report approved rightly gives priority to local products which do not have to be imported from great distances, which are not produced under social and working conditions that are contrary to community legislation and which comply with union food safety rules. but this is not about european protectionism, it is about the sustainability of all sectors of our economy. the general quality of products is assessed, inter alia, in terms of their ethical, environmental and social quality. while i agree with most of the requirements of the commission's draft revision, i have some doubts about the future function of this body, particularly with regard to delegated acts. i therefore agree to amend article 7a (1a) so that the period for delegating powers to the commission is changed from 'indefinite' to 'five years'. i would also add that, if after five years there are no substantial changes justifying a revision of the legislation, the ex post renewal mechanism should be used.
in writing. the report focuses on the legal environment for the labelling of fruit juices. this is mainly about defining terms such as fruit juice, fruit nectar, fruit drink and lemonade. the main difference between the two terms is the fruit juice content, which is 100% fruit, whereas fruit nectar has a fruit content of up to 25% and fruit drinks have a fruit content of less than 25%. the amendment also introduces a new obligation to use at least half the letters of the name of the product, the description if it is a fruit juice, nectar, drink or soda, on the packaging. this measure will help to better inform the consumer about the content of these products and to make it easier for him to recognise the quality of the product. likewise, in the future, it will not be possible to determine whether the product is 100% fruit or whether it contains any substitutes. i consider all the proposed measures to be beneficial to consumers. the older generation in particular will be able to better understand what the actual content of the product is, which i think is important in the coming year of active ageing.
in writing. − i am not aware that the european parliament has been actively involved in the doubts surrounding the 2000 us presidential elections. i am not aware that the european parliament would question the electoral result in the czech republic in 2006 achieved through the misuse of police forces. the european union should be a beacon of democracy. who else could be in today's world. i too want the european union to be able to provide support to all those in the world who are fighting for truth and democracy. but before we become such a beacon, we should learn to approach politics in third countries fairly. as long as our motive is the political regime's affection for the economic interests of the member states, we should not engage in mentoring. this is true of the electoral process, as well as, for example, the issue of the death penalty, which we also have different approaches to depending on the country in which it is applied. today we awarded the sakharov prize to the arab spring. this award may have been accompanied by an exhibition of photographs of leading european politicians embracing gaddafi and others who were overthrown by the arab spring. i did not support the resolution on the eu-russia summit concerning the russian parliamentary elections. because, to the best of my knowledge and conscience, i had no right to do so. and i have to admit, i'm sorry.
in writing. − i welcome the joint communication from the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on a new approach to a changing neighbourhood. at the same time, i recognise the european aspirations and european choice of some partners and their commitment to building a strong and sustainable democracy, and in this context i stress the need to establish new and different relations between the eu and the eastern partnership countries and to support their efforts to consolidate sustainable democracy and market economies. i believe that countries should be given tangible and compelling incentives under the neighbourhood policy to engage in the common goal of building a strong democracy, and that differentiation based on political, economic and social realities, performance and results of individual countries should be based on clearly defined criteria and measurable benchmarks for individual partner countries, which should be monitored regularly. in this respect, i call on the commission and the european external action service to consider the benchmarks set out in the joint communication as objectives to be achieved.
in writing. − i welcome the commission communication entitled 'eu counter-terrorism policy: achievements and future challenges' and stress that this communication must be linked to the eu's internal security strategy in the making. however, i consider it wrong that its scope is rather narrow, limited to the application of agreed policy measures and does not focus on national counter-terrorism policies or national measures implementing policies agreed at european or international level into national law. i also regret that no more thorough investigation has been carried out into possible legal loopholes or overlaps or duplications of counter-terrorism measures and instruments adopted at eu level. unfortunately, the communication does not sufficiently cover and develop in more detail the actions of dgs other than dg jls (e.g. dg tran, dg enter or dg markt), nor does it provide a clear picture of how the actions interact, whether they overlap or whether there are gaps between them. this requires consideration of all the above levels, as european, national and international measures are complementary and an assessment of individual measures would not provide an overall picture of the impact of counter-terrorism policies in europe. the european commission also owes it to eu citizens to explain how certain eu counter-terrorism instruments, such as data retention, passenger name records and the swift agreement, are integrated into the counter-terrorism strategy.
in writing. the long-running process of increasing the openness of public administration has its roots in the signing of the aarhus convention in 1998. the report on the regulation seeks to minimise the number of documents to which the public is not entitled and to ensure maximum information and openness in decision-making processes. the principle underlying this regulation is the principle of active openness, i.e. the active publication of all documents drawn up by the eu institutions. the new regulation introduces an obligation for each general administrative department to appoint one official responsible for providing information upon request from citizens. the obligation to actively publish documents is also introduced, and a new common interface for linking the document registers of the various institutions of the european union is also introduced. this measure should allow for the interconnection of individual registers, thereby increasing citizens' access to documents. the new obligation to make all information about decision-making processes available at every stage of the decision-making process. in conclusion, i would like to stress that, in the spirit of the aarhus convention, all information must be provided free of charge, so that no further barriers to greater openness and awareness are created.
for the s&d group. mr president, the european commission's vision for 2050 is an important document to set the future direction of european transport policy. we therefore see it not only as a material for discussion but, above all, as a framework within which concrete objectives and actions will be set in the short and medium term. the report therefore calls on the commission to set these targets in concrete terms by 2020. it's important to start with the present. the european transport policy must clearly build on previous documents and also reflect the baseline state of infrastructure in all member states. in the final proposal, we therefore call on the commission to present an analysis of the current situation as soon as possible, and no later than 2013. european cohesion policy instruments must continue to support a faster convergence of infrastructure levels in the member states, with an emphasis on transport sustainability and safety. the resulting compromise also addresses a very important area, namely the conditions of transport workers. this sector employs about 10 million people, so it has to be an important part of our transportation thinking. whether it's the quality of jobs, job security, training or education. the traffic is not without people. their working conditions must therefore be appropriate to this demanding and responsible profession and have a direct impact on road safety. effective cooperation between different modes of transport is an important part of future transport policy and the eu's long-term emission reduction targets. i therefore consider it important that we agreed in the final compromise to promote sustainable transport modes, across all distances. i also agree with the commission that we should have a systematic approach to long-distance transport at a pan-european level. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his great efforts in negotiating acceptable compromises and i believe that the final proposal will be approved by a large majority tomorrow.
mr. president, removing barriers to the free movement of people, goods, services and capital is our long-term priority. i therefore support the european commission's efforts to create a single european transport area. however, a comprehensive and efficient interconnection of transport networks across the european union and the creation of a cohesive multimodal network are also important conditions. in this respect, i think it is right that the white paper makes several references to the differences in transport infrastructure between the eastern and western parts of the european union. on the other hand, there is no specific action or initiative, not only in this white paper but in the commission's activities in general, to eliminate these differences. in this respect, the commission's transport activities seem to me to be somewhat inconsistent. i expected the commission to come up with a solution to close the gaps in transport infrastructure between the east and west in the form of the proposed infrastructure fund. but i was very disappointed by the commissioner because he again concentrates most of the aid in the old member states, even though he takes 10 billion from cohesion policy, which is primarily for the weaker regions. this is not only a great disappointment, but a fatal flaw in european integration.
in writing. the current crisis has clearly shown that rational and good solutions for citizens cannot be achieved by market forces alone. i welcome the results of the intelligent energy for europe (iee) programme, which is not just about concrete successful projects and sharing their results. it is about building a wider awareness of the need for rational behaviour in european civilization. the promotion of research and innovation in investment in sustainable energy projects has, despite some minor flaws or problems, put the issue of sustainable energy itself on the agenda. without energy-conscious decision-making by public administrations and without public pressure to make such decisions, the objectives we are now discussing in the context of the energy efficiency directive cannot be considered at all. the mff does not contain any reference to the continuation of the iee programme. horizon 2020, the framework programme for research and innovation, as part of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, must therefore take over the role of the iee and, in particular, ensure sufficient funding for this programme. without further supporting and facilitating energy-efficient decision-making, it will not be possible to ensure the internalisation of energy externalities in transport, nor to create a new impetus in the field of smart grids. without economic and innovative thinking, integrated energy projects cannot be launched on a large scale and european energy cannot become sustainable.
in writing. i voted against the proposal for a regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing the european maritime safety agency (emsa). there are several reasons. first, the regulation has already been amended three times, the last amendment being in 2006. but i think we should change the legislation as little as possible. secondly, the proposed amendment to the regulation aims to extend the tasks of emsa. however, i consider the proposed scope of the agency's tasks to be too broad and i do not see a clear definition of the powers in the draft regulation. third, i'm worried about budgeting. i believe that the additional tasks of emsa should be addressed by redeploying existing staff of the agency rather than by recruiting new staff.
in writing. − at a time when europe is on the verge of another economic crisis, i consider it a huge risk to set strict targets requiring a 20% reduction in co2 emissions from road transport, as well as a 30% reduction in emissions from aviation and shipping. such requirements can be a deathblow for the european economy and its global competitiveness in these uncertain times. the transport sector is a major contributor to europe's competitiveness and growth, and should therefore be supported, not hindered. i therefore consider it important to complete the european internal transport market by opening up other transport networks and markets. i therefore support the proposal to stabilise the financing of the construction of the trans-european transport network and i particularly welcome the proposal to include the eurovelo long-distance cycle network in the trans-european transport network. i generally regard the report as a good one, but unfortunately i am sorry for the trojan horse that has been smuggled into it in the form of unrealistic environmental targets to reduce co2 emissions from transport, the implementation of which will reduce europe's competitiveness. as i do not think it would be good if a number of the positive steps proposed in the report were not implemented because of the trojan horse mentioned earlier, i have only given my conditional support to the report. i therefore give notice in advance that i will not support any legislative measure arising from this report which implements an unrealistic plan to reduce co2 emissions.
in writing. i voted against this report because i consider the quantitative targets set, for example in the area of emission reductions, to be too ambitious, without any concrete steps being outlined to achieve them. moreover, i am convinced that, while reducing emissions in transport is important, it should not be the absolute priority of the new transport policy, but only one of the main objectives, alongside improving mobility and overall eu transport connectivity, which will contribute to increasing the eu's competitiveness. it should also be noted that most of the targets are highly dependent on the development and implementation of modern technologies, a process which is very difficult to predict. for these and other reasons, i voted against.
