mr president, what i find questionable is that a parliamentary right - namely question time - is simply being removed without any basis in view of possible future changes. the decision has not yet been made, as you yourself say. and since it has not yet been decided, we should continue to hold question time until a decision has been taken, rather than obeying in anticipation a decision which has not yet been taken. i am quite frank with you: i think it is wrong, because in matters of foreign policy and enlargement policy the council is not another chamber but an organ which we must of course control parliamentarily! (applause from the centre)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the president for the honour of chairing a debate on a subject of such importance for industrial policy and the internal market, and i should also like to thank the rapporteur, mr stihler, who has worked very hard on this proposal and whose efforts have enabled us to reach an agreement at second reading. i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and the chairman of the committee on the internal market, mr harbour, very warmly. your collective efforts have been instrumental in bringing about a breakthrough in the negotiations between the institutions on this highly technical dossier. the commission welcomes the compromise reached by parliament and the council at second reading; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the adoption of the construction products regulation is a major step forward for the entire european construction industry. construction products account for 3% of gdp at european level and in terms of employment construction-related activities account for 6.5% of gdp at european level and 7.5% in terms of employment: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's structural funds are used to finance the construction of the new railway network. in addition, the adoption of the construction products regulation is an important step forward in the field of simplification and better regulation and at the same time strengthens the internal market for construction products. this was also the first practical application of the principles enshrined in the small business act. in fact, for european companies, especially the smaller ones, community legislation will finally offer enabling tools instead of the exact opposite, i.e. forms to be filled in, red tape and additional obligations. i can only be satisfied with this result, particularly with the solutions to the three questions which were considered the most complicated: the commission will prepare a report on this important point, inform parliament and, if necessary, submit any subsequent legislative proposals. secondly, the special treatment of micro-enterprises, which has always been considered essential to safeguard the principles of the small business act. the result achieved meets this criterion, while maintaining the possibility of simplified procedures for micro-enterprises. finally, the need to reduce the administrative and documentary obligations of undertakings is recognised in various parts of the text, not only by introducing simplified procedures for ce marking but also by maintaining the use of european technical assessments as an option. however, as stated in the commission statement annexed to the council's position at first reading, it will be necessary to verify that the solutions chosen are indeed the best ones to meet real needs. in particular, we must avoid placing unjustified or unnecessary administrative burdens on businesses, especially the smallest ones. we intend to monitor this closely and to include our findings in the report to the european parliament and the council to be drawn up five years after the entry into force of this regulation. i would also like to point out that the commission intends to work closely with the european parliament and, of course, with the council on the implementation of this regulation. in this connection i have asked my services - whom i thank for their constant contribution to the commission's legislative work - to prepare a road map on implementation, which i intend to send to you as soon as possible. this is particularly true of the so-called aspects of comitology. parliament is a key partner of the commission, and i can assure you that i intend to continue to work closely with it also in the next phase of adoption. moreover, 14 years in this house have not been wasted. finally, the commission considered it necessary to make a statement on the derogation from the joint interinstitutional agreement on the time limit for lodging objections to delegated acts. the commission would point out that the principle laid down in the draft memorandum of understanding provides for a time limit for the submission of objections of two months, which may be extended for a further two months. in the present case, the commission considers that there are no particular circumstances which would justify a derogation from this principle. the commission regrets that the principle agreed in the draft memorandum of understanding has not been respected and in its statement stresses that the case of construction products cannot constitute a precedent. i thank parliament - also through its president, whom i thank again for taking part in this debate - for the interest with which it has examined this proposal for simplification. in conclusion, i would like to highlight the benefits we expect from this new legislation and the benefits it will bring to the producers and users of construction products, as well as to national administrations. we also confirm the commission's readiness to fulfil its obligations under the text of the regulation, in particular to draw up the reports it has been asked to draw up. i thank you again, mr president, and i thank the honourable members for their commitment and cooperation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i too would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to all those who have actively contributed to the adoption of this regulation at second reading. this regulation, as its name suggests, is an improvement on the existing directive. the construction police law has historically been a rather central area of national autonomy. the fact that we have succeeded in bringing the european single market forward with a regulation is very positive. secondly, the regulation contains a number of important facilities for small and mediumsized enterprises, which will make it easier for them to operate and deal with the european internal market. and finally, of course, consumers are also the beneficiaries of this regulation, because the safety and reliability of construction products is greatly improved by this regulation. i would also like to speak for our shadow rapporteur, professor mayer, who is unfortunately still in his constituency today because of the constituency meetings. he asked me to point out that this regulation is a compromise at the end of the day, a good compromise at second reading, but in his view there are still some points which need to be worked out. i am very grateful to mr tajani for pointing out that parliament will also be involved in these follow-up work. as shadow rapporteur, he believes that it is not enough to regulate the behaviour of construction product manufacturers and the distribution of their products alone, but that this regulation must be supplemented by a set of rules which also establishes the principles and practical rules for the use and installation of construction products. in this context, he felt that the commission should consider giving the european standardisation body cen a mandate to present a unified european regulatory framework. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. but after what commissioner tajani said, i am sure that we will achieve this together.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur, mrs catherine stihler, who has done a very important job in this highly technical area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim was to reconcile the interests of the economy, safety and health at work. the rapporteur has done an excellent job in this respect from the point of view of the european parliament and the social democrats. respect for the interests of the industry and seeing where their problems lie in this area of construction products was essential. it was also a question of finding the balance between large enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises. we thought it was right that the commission proposed that small businesses need fewer rules. but that does not mean - and this is what the improvement made to the commission proposal refers to - that there can be less security. and the standards have to be really high. and we've been able to do that in this area. it is also important to give priority to safety, which is of particular importance to consumers. because wherever a construction product is manufactured and installed, it must be ensured that the end users of that product are as safe as those who have worked with it before. the third point which was particularly important for us social democrats was the improvement of the protection of workers and the fact that this express verbis was also inscribed once again. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on this matter. the fact that these construction products often involve dangerous substances and substances is also a matter of concern. it is of the utmost importance that the highest possible level of protection is actually achieved in this area. the protection of these products must be taken into account later on - and we will probably have to work on this, mr tajani - when disposing of such products when they are no longer needed. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again, who has done a really excellent job.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, i would also like to thank mrs stihler and all the shadow rapporteurs. i think we have reached a good compromise in this second reading, although, as always with compromises, not all sides are satisfied. i would like to take up specifically the comments made by professor meyer and mr schwab. i think we need to work on the labeling. we now have a good harmonization of construction products, i.e. the creation of construction products. but where we need to work is in the installation, in the use of the construction products. one possibility is that the commission will continue to work on eurocodes and that there will be a mandate for eurocodes to develop further. the other possibility is that we will achieve a harmonization of the field of application and the field of application, so that we do not fall back to the national level and have a europeanization only in the field of the products themselves, but not in the field of application. we must work on this and the commission has our full support if it comes to further measures. i would like to mention another point which was important in the debate on whether we agree or disagree. unfortunately, there was a mistake in the negotiations by the belgian presidency. the belgian presidency of the council introduced new areas in the second reading after the first reading articles 8.3 and 8.6 without parliament's full consent. the hungarian presidency has now taken up this matter in a letter. however, i do not think that the hungarian presidency has really understood the conflict. i would like to point out once again that i expect the council to really approach parliament in future when it brings in new points at second reading and try to reach a good compromise with parliament. however, in view of the result, we believe that it is pointless to reject this compromise on the grounds of such a formal error. we agree to this compromise because we believe it is an important step towards further harmonization of the sector, and the sector has great economic importance. that is why we are voting in favour of this second reading.
i have to say, madam president, i am not convinced by all the points in the agreement, but i know that the new regulation represents a significant improvement compared to the current legal situation. for the first time we have a single european technical language for the performance of construction products and streamlined and simplified procedures. we have advanced the european single market, to the benefit of businesses, but also to the benefit of consumers through uniform safety requirements. i think that in principle it is important and useful to relieve micro-enterprises of bureaucratic regulations. but it must also be borne in mind that on the user side there are also micro-enterprises which process construction products and these must also be protected. i am therefore pleased that my proposal was accepted in the agreement. the new rules apply simplified procedures for the assessment of performance characteristics of construction products for micro-enterprises. however, if they use such a procedure, they must prove that the procedure applied is equivalent to the procedure actually provided for at european level. this is the only way to ensure that the information on performance is also accurate and reliable and that the safety of buildings is also guaranteed throughout europe.
member of the commission. − madam president, as you are well aware, the new year started with a serious incident of dioxin contamination of animal feed in germany. the commission services have been monitoring developments closely and in full cooperation with the competent german authorities. i have already started considering possible measures which will ensure that our high-level food and feed safety system will become even more efficient. but let me start with the facts of the incident first: the incident came to light when a compound feed manufacturer notified the german competent authorities on 22 december 2010 after having received the analytical result from a laboratory that a sample was found to be non-compliant with eu legislation after self-controlled tests. between the middle of november and middle of december of last year a biodiesel manufacturer delivered seven consignments of fatty acids intended for technical purposes to a feed fat manufacturer who also produces fats for technical use. this latter company was at the same time a registered feed fat manufacturer; apparently blending of feed grade fat and technical fat took place. four of these consignments delivered in the second half of november were later found to be contaminated with dioxins. the other three delivered to feed mills in the first half of december 2010 were not contaminated. however, until this was verified and for purely precautionary reasons, all consignments were regarded and treated as potentially contaminated. a total of almost 2 300 tonnes of potentially contaminated feed fat was delivered to 25 feed manufacturers in germany. no deliveries of feed fat were made outside of germany. between 100 000 and 200 000 tonnes of feed containing 2% to 10% of the potentially contaminated fat were delivered to about 4 800 farms in germany. as a strictly precautionary measure all farms were blocked; their commercial activities suspended; there were laying hen, fattening poultry, goose, pig, dairy cattle, bovine and rabbit farms. some deliveries of potentially contaminated feed for breeding hens were also made to france and denmark. no food of animal origin from the blocked farms can be placed on the market until the farms are unblocked. this can only happen after it is ensured through analytical results and investigations that the farms are not contaminated at levels above those provided by the eu law. currently, of these 4 800 farms that were originally blocked, 939 farms – mostly poultry and pig establishments – remain blocked. it appears that no contaminated food was traded or exported from germany since the incident was notified, with a few exceptions. in the end, analytical results showed that the products were compliant with eu legislation. this is an example of the effectiveness of the eu’s traceability system and we will continue to be vigilant in this respect. the fortunate element of this incident is that the observed levels of dioxin in food where eu limits were exceeded have not been very high, which means that no immediate health risk for the consumer is expected as a result of the consumption, if any, of the contaminated products during a short period of time. what has the commission done to help manage the incident? my services have been in constant contact with the german authorities and they immediately disseminated all information to member states through the rapid alert system for food and feed. they have also been in touch with the competent authorities in third countries, providing a clear picture of the incident to our trade partners. moreover, commission officials met with stakeholders in the fats and oils industries to explore ways of further strengthening the monitoring of dioxin in feed. i personally contacted the german federal minister for food, agriculture and consumer protection, ilse aigner, on 6 january, and we exchanged views on what needs to be done to avoid similar contamination and incidents in the future. today, i again contacted the german minister, as i was concerned by the recent news from last weekend that a feed manufacturer did not provide a full list of farms which received potentially contaminated feed, and provided incorrect information as regards the use of contaminated feed fat in compound feed, resulting in an additional blocking of several hundred farms. this concerns a very serious infringement of eu food safety provisions. let me say it clearly: the german authorities are fully engaged in dealing with this contamination and are doing their best to deal with it urgently and decisively. i am informed that they are making available additional capacity for testing so that this is done and finished in the shortest possible time. however, it is important that the wider implications for the approach towards the safety of animal feed at eu level are also urgently addressed. for this reason, a team from the food and veterinary office will visit germany next week to assist the german authorities and to inform our overall knowledge and understanding of how this contamination happened and how it can be avoided in the future. the german authorities are informed and have agreed to this visit. i know that we can count on the full cooperation of our german colleagues. this incident will also be discussed during the agricultural council which will take place in brussels next monday 24 january. as i have already mentioned, we are reflecting on measures including legislative ones. the incident has highlighted the necessity to ensure the effectiveness of national control systems which underpin the confidence of all eu member states and third countries in our food and feed safety measures. in order to address this issue, i am exploring the possibility of establishing a strict segregation of the production of fats and oils intended for feed and food purposes from the production of fats and oils for technical uses, and i am considering the possibility of legal requirements on reinforced controls on dioxins at different stages of the feed chains. i am confident that these measures when endorsed and adopted will bring the necessary improvements to our already solid food and feed safety systems.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. it is a matter of great concern to me, as a farmer, that we have to deal with scandals of this kind again and again, which are apparently caused by sloppiness but also by criminal energy. we can still put in place so many laws and regulations - we have the strictest food production laws in europe, we have the lowest limits on ingredients that could endanger the health of our consumers - and yet we are not immune from such dangers. it is therefore a requirement - and the member states are also responsible for this - that if the public prosecutor establishes that criminal energy is at stake, the penalty must be massively increased. people like that can't get away with fines, here are prison sentences. they must be locked away so they can't do such a bad thing again. i am very pleased, commissioner, that you have confirmed to the german authorities - and that was also my impression in germany - that the appropriate measures have been taken here one after the other. in germany, some political theatre is being staged which does not do justice to the cause. we must all sit down and supplement the strict rules we have where necessary. you have raised a matter in which you have our full support. i too am in favour - and i speak on behalf of my group - of introducing a strict separation between the production of food and other products so that such mixtures cannot take place. we support you, commissioner, in continuing to improve our rules and regulations so that such scandals can be prevented even more effectively in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, i am a little surprised by what you have said. i perceive the press - at least in germany - somewhat differently. i, too, am incredibly angry that there are scandals in the food safety field. we can't let that happen. i am aware that regulations and laws alone cannot prevent criminal activities in this area. but we must do everything we can to make it as difficult as possible for those responsible. the commission must call on the member states to review their penalties in this area urgently. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of animals are respected. it's just that oftentimes, fines are so low compared to the profit that they're paid out of pocket. it is also very important to increase the number of state inspectors. the current example in germany shows very well that the principle of self-regulation has major shortcomings. i would point out that the polluter pays principle must be applied consistently throughout the chain, from the food basket to the plate. because in the feed basket, the safety of our food already begins. we cannot allow innocent people to perpetrate the criminal behavior of others. it is not yet clear who will pay for the losses of farmers due to the dioxin scandal. the polluters who went bankrupt certainly won't, because there's no money to be made. this can't be happening! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the recurring problems in food safety make one thing clear again and again: we must ensure complete traceability of the entire process chain, both food and feed. the eu regulation and national laws need to be improved.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is clear that consumer confidence is once again seriously affected and consumers are naturally asking themselves: what are the national authorities and the eu doing to put an end to these toxic mixers? unlike the commissioner, i do not think it was an accident or a stupid coincidence. i believe that there is now a system in place whereby certain companies make millions of dollars cutting materials that are not actually in the feed and ultimately avoid liability and farmers and consumers are the ones who are affected. i think that's where we have to start, and you have to ask yourself, of course, is the control in the wrong place? there are a handful of companies in germany which work with fat in the feed sector. why not use controls? why rely on self-checks and get randomly delivered values that you then have to chase down from government control? that means we need risk-based monitoring throughout europe, and that is the question for you, commissioner: what is efsa doing here? is this a german case, or are there other cases in europe that may have gone undetected? we need - and i think there is agreement on this - a positive list of what is actually included in the feed? we need strict rules on the licensing of establishments, and we need a liability and separation of goods flows. but i think we also need - and i must say this again at this point - a fundamental reorientation in many areas of policy. because, after all, the animal feed should come from the farm, not from the factory. farmers need to know what they are feeding their animals and consumers need to know where the feed comes from. we must ensure that. we can and must make a start on the agricultural reform, and we can and must make a start on the agricultural reform. because in the end, the whole of agriculture is suffering the damage that some criminal thugs are doing here, and we must prevent that from happening!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. grinding, mixing and milling are the three golden m's of the german feed industry. since 1999, there have been five dioxin scandals in germany alone. the eu's food and feed policy is not a matter of national law, but of the european parliament's own. competition for the lowest prices in the food market is fierce in germany. the aim is to make the feed for the stock farming industry as cheap as possible. state controls on feed and food producers are rare. the state has increasingly focused on self-control of manufacturers and has cut back on skilled personnel. under these conditions, dioxin-contaminated technical waste from biodiesel production has now been able to enter the feed and food chain. the current dioxin scandal could have been avoided if the fat had been tested for dioxin before it was added to the feed. then the stress would have been detected in time. now again, countless consumers are being burdened with additional dioxins. 80% of the dioxins we absorb come from animal foods - meat, milk and eggs - into our bodies. foodwatch rightly calls for an obligation for feed manufacturers to test each batch of feed ingredient for dioxins and pcbs before mixing the feed. no single ingredient shall enter the feed that does not comply with the limit values. highly loaded batches shall be destroyed in a verifiable manner. this is the only way to prevent further dumping and dilution of pollutants. laboratories must also be obliged to report exceedances of the limit values to the national supervisory authorities. it is necessary to introduce a traceability labelling obligation for meat. the current and previous food scandals in germany have shown that routine government controls on feed producers and livestock producers are indispensable. how do you propose to achieve this, commissioner?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. consumers and farmers need to be better protected from irresponsible feed and fat poaching. they must be trained throughout europe. a colleague was just talking about germany, but unfortunately we have had dioxin scandals and similar scandals in the past in other member states. first, the prosecutor has the floor, because this is a criminal matter. i hope that the german prosecutors and the organisations from other countries which may be involved - the netherlands is also mentioned as part of the chain - will work faster than the prosecutors in ireland. the european parliament has recently adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. we're gonna have to get faster overall. i ask that this scandal - it is a scandal - be put in its proper context. the levels were increased by a maximum of four times. that is bad, and we have a precautionary value that cannot be exceeded for good reason. but the precautionary value is deliberately chosen so that we only get to the areas where long-term damage has been found in animal experiments when we exceed it by a hundredfold. so it's not about acute hazards, it's about precautions. in the 1999 belgium scandal, the levels were 700 times higher than the current eu limit. in addition, we have reduced the dioxin load in the environment by one tenth since 1990 through eu measures e.g. chemicals legislation, improved standards for waste incineration plants, etc. nevertheless, we need action in the food chain that must be taken at european level. we need dioxin monitoring, we need a separation of fats, i mean we need an eu-wide food safety directive, and we need better protection for farmers who are not responsible for the fact that this kind of sloppiness and criminal activity is repeated in the food chain.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the current dioxin incident is more than just a scandal. here the people of europe are shown their reflection. we have long complained that there is an extreme price and survival struggle in agriculture, fuelled by the insatiable desire for ever cheaper food. this fight is no longer a simple showdown, it's more than that. and in doing so, individuals are increasingly resorting to ever more criminal means and methods. but we will all lose. we can pass more laws and regulations, we can carry out more controls at greater cost, we can impose harsher penalties - none of this will counteract the criminal energy of such a hard struggle for existence. we must finally address the cause of this evil. the desire for more and cheaper must finally come to an end. as a farmer, i have witnessed the powerlessness of individuals in the face of such criminal machinations as this one right on our doorstep. i've been shaking with my colleagues, who's next to be dragged into this innocently. i therefore ask the commission: what do you and your colleagues intend to do to restore food to a higher value? i welcome your proposals, but they will not solve the main problem.
i have to say, madam president, the german feed industry has a good system of self-control. but this system does not work with criminal energy and criminal machinations. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the use of prohibited substances in animal feed is not restricted to the production of animal products. i would like to add three main conclusions to those of my colleagues: first, we need more government control. secondly, we need a complete reporting of feed test results, which must also be kept for the relevant checks. thirdly, we need tougher penalties for those who become criminals. this is not a chivalrous crime, it was done on purpose. in conclusion, i should like to remind you once again that the main victims of this feed scandal are the farmers, who are currently unable to sell their products at all or only at a great loss.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the eu/cameroon agreement on forest law (cameroon, republic of congo) recommendation by yannick jadot, on behalf of the committee on international trade (a7-0371/2010) recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cameroon on forest law enforcement, policy and trade and on imports of timber products into the european union (flegt) [12796/2010 - c7-0339/2010 - 2010/0217 (nle) ] eu/cameroon agreement on forest law recommendation by yannick jadot, on behalf of the committee on international trade (a7-0370/2010) recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of congo on the implementation of the law, policy and trade in the forest sector and on imports of timber products into the european union (flegt) [12796/2010 - c7-0339/2010 - 2010/0217 (nle)) recommendation by yannick jadot, on behalf of the committee on international trade (a7-0371/2010) ] recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cameroon on forest law enforcement, policy and law, policy and trade (cameroon, on the implementation of the law, policy and trade and trade in forest law, and trade) voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the european union and the republic of the european union and the united nations voluntary partnership agreement on forest law, on forest law, on forest law, policy and law, policy and policy and law, on forest
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. my esteemed colleagues from several tropical hardwood exporting countries have begun to sign voluntary partnership agreements with the eu under the flegt action plan. the european union will support reforms for responsible forest management and capacity building, in particular the introduction of systems for the certification of origin and legality of wood products. what is particularly important to me is that if it helps to improve transparency and prevent environmental damage from forestry activities, then it is good that the partners commit to changing and improving existing legislation. i also expressly welcome the european union's commitment to support capacity building in the wood producing countries, in particular in the introduction of systems for the verification of the origin and legality of wood and wood products. i would like to make two further points. the voluntary partnership agreements are based on the idea of jointly ending the trade in illegally harvested timber and timber products and contributing to the reduction of deforestation, forest degradation and its consequences in terms of co2 emissions and biodiversity loss worldwide. further large-scale exploitation of tropical and other species-rich forests with high carbon storage capacity is unacceptable and may lead to further deforestation and forest degradation, with devastating consequences for the environment worldwide. that is why these agreements are a small but good step in the right direction. i expressly agree with the points made by my predecessors, i thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation and i would be delighted if we could really make progress with these agreements to make our world a little bit better.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as coordinator of the committee on fisheries, i am particularly interested in the fisheries aspect of this transitional agreement. there was some controversy in the run-up to the relaxation of the origin regime for papua new guinea. i support the commission's view that this easing will help to stimulate the economy of one of the poorest countries on earth. i am convinced that fisheries policy-makers should care about this. i also understand the concerns of the european industry, but i cannot imagine that the concessions granted will make papua new guinea a serious competitor to our canning industry. but we have to be careful, because of course it's not helping anyone if we move half of our canning industry to the pacific. i must say, however, that in the discussion of this agreement we have had very contradictory information on the question of the extent of investment in papua new guinea and which countries indirectly benefit from the relaxation of the rules of origin. i therefore urge the commission to monitor closely the application of this derogation and to report to parliament in due time on the impact on developments in papua new guinea and the impact on the european canning industry. if this arrangement does not achieve the desired results on the ground and causes intolerable damage to european companies, we will have to decide again when the final agreement is negotiated. please keep us informed.
member of the commission. − mr president, this was an extremely interesting debate. there is poverty in the world. we need to deal with it. one way would be the transfer of financial resources, but it is much better to give the people the opportunity to make a decent living from the work they do. the three tuna processing facilities in papua new guinea which are authorised to export tuna to the eu employ around 5 700 people, most of whom are women. jobs are at stake in papua new guinea, which is one of the most poverty-stricken countries. when it proposes derogations, the commission takes due account of the risks involved and looks to create safeguards. the commission takes the view that it is highly unlikely that papua new guinea’s exports will cause any serious disruption to the eu’s fishing and canning industry given the low volume of trade between papua new guinea and the eu, and papua new guinea’s low market-share in the eu tuna market of around 3% in recent years. provisional application dates from 2008, and we have some experience with figures. it will not cause any disruption to europe’s fishing or canning industries. the development of trade flows will be further analysed in a study on the effect of the implementation of the special rules of origin for fishery products which will be prepared in 2011. in addition, the commission will monitor trade with png and will not hesitate to take appropriate measures if a serious disturbance of the eu market becomes evident. the interim agreement explicitly allows for the application of such measures in its chapter 2 on trade defence instruments. there is no indication at this stage of any negative impact of papua new guinea’s exports of fishery products on the canning industry in other acp or gsp+ countries. this aspect will also be looked at in the study i have just mentioned. i should like to add that, independently of any special rules of origin or preferential trade agreements, countries and companies exporting fish or fishery products to the eu will always have to comply with the regulation on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and with the eu’s health and food safety requirements. i believe that the commission has considered the matter very carefully before bringing this measure forward. i shall now turn to a broader issue: the epa in general. trade is far from simple. as i have said, the only way to eradicate poverty is to allow growth in the developing world. it is true that regional cooperation is rather difficult at the start. it is not just trade agreements that make regional development happen. that is why we have earmarked eur 45 million for aid for trade in the oceania region. this is three times more than was provided for under the ninth edf. it is only by facilitating trade flows that you can expect regional trade to take place. if we look at all developing countries, basically all trade is based on monoculture – one particular export item with a high fluctuation rate. this has a highly disruptive effect in the countries concerned. when we talk about migratory flows, security, safety and justice in the world, we cannot just say that we do not care about it. we should care about it, and our departments have carried out an extensive study. we are proposing very decent measures which are completely in line with all the european union’s objectives. i believe that the measure is right and that the necessary safeguards are in place in case anything goes wrong. i believe we have judged this correctly and i therefore lend my support to this agreement.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 19 january 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the interim partnership agreement between the european community and fiji and papua new guinea addresses the complicated and complex process of integration in the pacific region. it is unfortunately hardly a discernible development aid to the two countries. i would remind you that the military coup in fiji in 2006 was unanimously condemned by the european parliament, the council and also the commission. the dictatorship which has continued to this day is now, by the conclusion of this trade agreement, recognized as a contracting party. the efforts of our partners in australia, new zealand and other countries in the region to bring about a return to democracy in fiji are being undermined by this treaty. when i criticised the military repression of democracy in fiji at our trade committee meeting, the response from their representatives was: 'but we are in control! what i thought was pure cynicism now seems to satisfy the commission's claims to the legitimacy of its contractual partners. my group will vote against this agreement. i will be campaigning for the suspension of the agreement until democracy is restored in fiji.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have just had the honour of conducting an international workshop on parental responsibility and child protection in the great hall of parliament in brussels. in europe there are more and more abandoned and abandoned children who should not live in orphanages permanently. it is therefore our duty as legislators to strengthen the right to intercountry adoption within the eu so that these children can be helped. this is also required by article 24 of our charter of fundamental rights, which states: 'children have the right to the protection and care necessary for their well-being.' we have the hague convention on adoption and a council of europe convention, but these are not enough. in practice, there are still major legal problems with international adoptions. the only way to achieve this is to have international rules which eliminate the still existing disparities between national rules and replace them with clear and simple principles. the eu must cooperate with the hague conference on private international law to ensure a coordinated approach. the eu should not therefore reinvent the wheel in this area. i welcome the commissioner's statements on this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur for allowing us to discuss this matter in this house today. i have two other comments or questions that always haunt me about humanitarian aid: firstly, it is undisputed and important that we help people in need, but - as my predecessor has already said - we should also ask ourselves again and again: are these funds also being used appropriately and properly? secondly, we must not neglect humanitarian aid, people in need, that is right. these may be natural disasters, but they are also increasingly man-made disasters. this includes political or military conflicts. we must remember that humanitarian aid is emergency aid, but at the same time we must also eliminate the causes, namely political violence.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is in politics, as in everyday life, that what you have is what you value the least. and so it seems to be the case that we have an abundance of food in the european union, and there is still plenty to buy. if we take the export of animal feed into account, we have a self-sufficiency rate of 88% in the european union. this means that we in the european union must also ensure that we are self-sufficient in agricultural products and food. i am therefore very grateful to the rapporteur, mrs sârbu, for bringing this problem back into the spotlight. we also need a common agricultural policy in the european union which provides the people of our union with sufficient food. with a growing world population or the impact of climate change and rising energy prices, it is clear that farmers in europe cannot cope alone in the future. we also need a strategic coordination in the world.
the first item is the joint debate on the ec-serbia stabilisation and association agreement. recommendation by mr jelko kacin, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and security (a7-0362/2010). recommendation on the draft council and commission decision on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part [15619/1/2007 - c7-0341/2010 - 2007/0255 ((nle)) ] stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and serbia. declarations by the council and the commission [2010/2980 (rsp) ]
before we continue with the list of speakers, i should like to welcome a guest who is following our debate here, namely the deputy prime minister of serbia, mr božidar đelić. welcome and good to have you here.
the next item is the continuation of the joint debate on the ec-serbia agreement.
i have to say, madam president, we too support the accession of the western balkans to the european union and, of course, serbia. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). in this context, i would like to point out once again that we cannot take any further steps in the accession process for serbia without the full approval of the international criminal court and, as the honourable member has just said, more proactive and, above all, more effective cooperation with the icc on the ground. there have been positive developments. one of them was the passage of the gender equality act, which we were very pleased about. we now want to see it implemented really quickly and we are asking the commission to provide funds and support this process. if the region is to grow together, we also need more public transport in and through the region. and here again, a call to the commission to give more support and funding through ipa funds, because we believe that people-to-people contact is necessary, not just between leaders. this will be greatly encouraged if it becomes easier for people to be mobile in the region. mobility is also an issue which i would like to mention very briefly, and that is the issue of car registration plates which belgrade still issues for the seven regions in the north of kosovo. we urge belgrade to stop issuing this badge for kosovo.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should like to thank mr kacin very much for his motion, which is a clear yes. i believe that all the issues on which we continue to criticise serbia, all the need for internal reform processes, all the need to cooperate with the icty, the issues in the fight against corruption, which is particularly profound in serbia, with mafia gangs that are there and affect economic life, all of this must be fought over the years and is the condition for the further positive pro-european course of serbia towards membership of the european union, as was firmly promised to them in thessaloniki, and we want to keep this promise. but i would also like to stress the need to cooperate with serbia. anyone who has a look at the history of the region knows that there can be no lasting peaceful development except with serbia and that for this reason we must see serbia not only as a candidate for future membership of the european union but as an essential strategic partner in the sound development of the whole region and that for this reason we should also encourage it from our side and that we should not treat serbia worse than countries that are members of the european union or are directly on the way to the european union, for whatever reasons of the shorter or longer history. when i see the courage with which president tadić has fought for a european course and is fighting in serbia, it is necessary that we support these political forces, encourage them so that they can show their people that the path to europe is also the right path for the people and not a nationalist path. for this reason, i would like to invite us, and in particular the member states, to move quickly forward with the ratification process and in this way send a signal that these steps by serbia towards europe must be supported if we are to secure security in the region in the long term.
the joint debate is closed. the debate was closed by a resolution from the committee on foreign affairs. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. by adopting my report, we are agreeing to an agreement which will bring about the legal approximation of 47 existing bilateral air transport agreements between individual eu member states and individual countries of the economic and monetary union of west africa. we ensure that eu law is applied, we prevent barriers to market access and discrimination, and we reduce red tape. please agree!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say that i was very pleased with the report 'recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector for food security' because it has put the importance of agriculture back in the spotlight, and the first conclusion for me is that we still need a strong common european agricultural policy. i would also like to thank the rapporteur. i have voted against the proposal on one point, however, and that is the creation of a european food aid programme within the european union. i think that the task of providing aid on the ground, that is to say, helping to ensure that no one in the european union is hungry, must remain the responsibility of the member states, simply because problems should be solved where they arise, in the member states.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. freedom of the press and media is a very big problem in russia. if you want to be on the right side of this debate, mr president of the commission, you must not allow what is happening in hungary at the moment. i ask you why the commission is so lax with regard to the hungarian media law. it is contrary to principles which apply in europe and beyond. we've had a legal expertise drawn up. the following is an overview: the law is in breach of the copenhagen criteria, the helsinki final act, the audiovisual media directive, the european convention on human rights, the unesco convention on the media, the lisbon treaty, the eu charter of fundamental rights. i could go on, but i won't. i ask you, when will you intervene appropriately in hungary? what's the timetable? why is there no infringement procedure? my criticism is also supported by existing case law in this area.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i would like to ask that all the documents provided by hungary to the commission be made available to us. we'd like to be able to judge that for ourselves. we think it's ripe for judgment. however, we suspect that hungary may not have submitted the full text of the law, that it is a game of time, etc. please give us those documents. i also think it is extremely difficult to make policy in the accession negotiations with turkey, for example, and to go around and around the copenhagen criteria and forget them when a country is a member of the european union.
president of the commission. − as i said, we have to see the legal basis for it. according to my information it was a military flight and a state visit, and the regulation entered into force after the terrible accident. so, from a legal point of view, it seems that there are not many arguments on the basis of which the commission might intervene. but we can of course always discuss this matter informally with the polish authorities or with other authorities that may ask us to do so.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr barroso, we all know the importance of the stability of the euro. i have not quite understood one process in this connection. it was about the debate on the increase in the bailout, and you called for 'going ahead' and mrs merkel called for 'stop'. now my question is, do you not agree with each other? it can happen. but this isn't the first time i've seen or imagined something like this. and the media is getting a lot of attention. this is not a simple marriage dispute between you and mrs merkel, but an important political issue! i can understand that. you can believe me that i do not always agree with mrs merkel either. but the point is that it is not more helpful for financial speculators to have differing opinions when they are made public.
president of the commission. − in the european union each institution and each government has its own responsibilities. the commission has some responsibility to present what it believes to be the right way forward for the euro area and for the union and so, in a very comprehensive document regarding the annual growth survey, we expressed our opinion. i think we had not only the right but also the duty to do that. so that is what we did, and i think it was extremely well received by the markets, as we have seen in recent days, because they understood that now there was a real willingness to move in a decisive way on all aspects of a comprehensive response, including on the efsf. the market analysis is unanimous on the need to do more on that matter. this is not just the commission’s opinion, it is also the opinion of the european central bank, and it was expressed in extremely clear terms. i hope that the member states will come to an agreement on the basis of the commission’s position.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr barroso, i fully accept that you have expressed your opinion and the report. but my question remains: how can it be that on such an important issue, where the euro is being speculated on, at such an important time as now, your opinion seems to be at odds with that of mrs merkel or mr sarkozy or any other head of government? at least that's the perception in the public.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask you, mr president barroso, about the harmonization of feed-in tariffs within the union. the commissioner for energy, mr oettinger, is pursuing a strategy which, in our view and in the view of the german environment minister, would lead to the destruction of the most successful renewable energy innovation programme we have in germany. what will you do to prevent the german feed-in tariff from being destroyed under the heading of harmonization and thus preventing innovation in renewable energies? and what will you do to ensure that mr oettinger does not play for time on the question of energy efficiency? he wants to do something in 2012, even though you yourself have just said that it is already clear that non-binding targets are not enough. how are you going to speed this up?
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, ms grossetête, distinguished members, let me continue in my mother tongue, hungarian. nagyon örülök, hogy részt vehetek a határokon átnyúló egészségügyi ellátásra vonatkozó betegjogok érvényesítéséről szóló direktívának a vitájában. e pillanat rendkívül fontos, hiszen két és fél év után az e jogalkotási aktusról folytatott megbeszéléseink most érnek véget. először is engedjék meg, hogy köszönetet mondjak mindenkinek, aki lehetővé tette, hogy eljussunk ehhez a nagyon fontos megállapodáshoz. először is az elnökségi trió előző tagjainak, belgiumnak, illetve még korábban spanyolországnak azért a kitűnő munkáért, amellyel hozzájárultak, hogy a tanácsban létrejöhetett ez a kompromisszum. szeretnék továbbá köszönetet mondani a tanács nevében az európai parlamentnek a kiváló együttműködésért és kompromisszumkészségért, amelynek köszönhetően megszületett a megállapodás, amely -meggyőződésem - sok előnnyel jár majd az unióbeli betegek számára, és újabb fontos lépést jelent az uniós betegjogok biztosításában. a három intézmény közötti megbeszélések, mindannyian emlékszünk rá, nem voltak könnyűek, ám mindvégig konstruktívak és eredményorientáltak maradtak és végig a kompromisszumkeresés jegyében folytak. elismerem, hogy az európai parlamenten belüli viták sem voltak egyszerűek, és hogy az a jelentés, amelyről önök holnap szavaznak, a képviselőcsoportok közötti kompromisszumot is tükrözi. ezért elismerésem fejezem ki mindazoknak, akik munkájukkal hozzájárultak ahhoz, hogy itt a parlamenten belül is egységes lett az álláspont, elsősorban françoise grossetête asszonynak, majdnem egymás mellett ültünk egy évig ebben a házban, és minden társelőadónak, hiszen az ő közreműködésük nélkül nem sikerült volna ez a jogalkotási folyamat. meggyőződésem, hogy az elfogadott szöveg megteremti a megfelelő egyensúlyt a betegeknek a határokon átnyúló egészségügyi ellátáshoz fűződő jogai, valamint a tagállamok azon kötelessége között, hogy megszervezzék és biztosítsák az egészségügyi szolgáltatásokat és az orvosi ellátást. a három intézmény közötti egyeztetések során több politikai jellegű kérdésben sikerült mindenki számára elfogadható megoldásokat találni. megállapodtunk mindenekelőtt az egészségügyi szolgáltatások minőségévével és biztonságával kapcsolatos kérdésekről. lefektettük az előzetes engedélyezés kritériumait és meghatároztuk, hogy milyen általános feltételek vonatkozzanak a határokon átnyúló egészségügyi ellátások költségeinek visszatérítésére. megegyeztünk továbbá az olyan betegek kezelésével kapcsolatos kérdésekről, akiknél ritka betegséget diagnosztizálnak, valamint az e-egészségügyi rendszerekkel kapcsolatos további tagállami együttműködésről. a tanács úgy látja, hogy elértük a legfontosabb célt, azaz megvalósult az egészségügy területébe tartozó áruk és szolgáltatások szabad mozgásával kapcsolatos európai bírósági ítélkezési gyakorlat egységes szerkezetbe foglalása. vannak azonban olyan további fontos tényezők, amelyek segíthetnének abban, hogy a betegek a jövőben könnyebben igénybe vehessék a határokon átnyúló egészségügyi szolgáltatásokat. ezek között kell megemlíteni a tagállamok által létrehozandó nemzeti kapcsolattartó pontokat, amelyek tájékoztatással szolgálnak a betegeknek. fontos továbbá a rendelvények tagállamok közötti kölcsönös elfogadása, valamint a tagállamok közötti kölcsönös segítségnyújtás és együttműködés. végül, de nem utolsó sorban pedig az az irányelv tisztázza a viszonyt, a szociális biztonsági rendszerek koordinálásáról szóló 883/2004-es ek rendelettel és ezáltal nagyobb jogbiztonságot garantál a betegek számára. az irányelv végrehajtása során a tagállamokat olyan elvek vezérlik majd, amelyeket az európai parlament, a tanács és a bizottság többször is elismert már. ezek az egyetemesség, a jó minőségű ellátáshoz való jog, a méltányosság és a szolidaritás elve. és hozzátenném, hogy ezúttal hatékony és versenyképességet is fokozó intézkedésről is tudtunk dönteni. tisztelt elnök úr! képviselőtársak! a magyar elnökség elkötelezett amellett, hogy a tanács e jogszabályt a lehető leghamarabb elfogadja. a jogi eljárás szerint a szöveget a tanács a szokásos jogi, nyelvi véglegesítést követően fogadja el, ami után az irányelv a lehető legrövidebb időn belül megjelenhet az unió hivatalos lapjában. köszönöm szépen, és még egyszer gratulálok mindenkinek, aki munkájával hozzájárult az irányelv megszületéséhez.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me congratulate parliament on the major achievement of reaching an agreement on this directive. i am particularly grateful to the rapporteur, ms grossetête, and the shadow rapporteurs for their hard work and their commitment to patients’ rights. i would also like to thank the previous two presidencies – spain and belgium – for the hard work they did to conclude this dossier. i believe that the new directive will provide a coherent and uniform set of rules for patients all over europe. it will also generate a new phase of cooperation between 27 national health systems. the path towards today’s successful conclusion was far from easy. i remember last year, when i took up office, people told me that negotiations on the directive were at a dead end. the directive is a good example of the need for political leadership: it shows that, with courage and determination, decisions which are important for our citizens can be taken. i believe that legislators must not leave the european court of justice to decide in their place, nor leave citizens with no other means of having their rights recognised than by going to court. the court recognised the right of patient mobility under the treaty. it is the legislator’s role to decide how to deliver such rights. allow me now to share with you some views on the directive. firstly, the directive makes clear that all member states have a duty to invest at home, to provide their citizens with the healthcare they need without undue delay. the directive will thus contribute towards reducing inequalities in access to care by helping to minimise delays across the eu. patients will be able to seek primary care with the provider of their choice across europe. as regards hospital care, the directive provides that, when the delay – i mean the waiting time for receiving treatment – is too long, the patient will be able to choose a provider in another member state and will be reimbursed. however, what precisely constitutes an acceptable waiting time will need to be carefully considered and defined. the main progress achieved by this directive, as compared with existing legislation, is that patients will be able to choose their healthcare provider and will have access to information on the quality and safety of the care they will receive. i can assure you that the commission will carefully monitor how member states implement the directive in that respect. secondly, the directive will give patients access to information on their rights and on cross-border healthcare – information validated by national contact points and not left to private initiatives on the internet or other media. thirdly, on quality of care, the directive offers transparency and accountability in relation to national standards. this should gradually lead to some convergence across europe on the quality and safety of care. lastly, the directive lays the foundation for european collaboration on health. while the cooperation networks set up by the directive are voluntary, i am convinced that all member states will see that they have much to gain by working together. this is a matter of solidarity in europe. i am therefore counting on the member states to launch cooperation initiatives in key areas such as e-health and health technology assessments. the directive also provides for european reference centres, which will facilitate the pooling of expertise and its dissemination across europe. i believe such centres can lead to better healthcare for our citizens. mr president, minister, honourable members, the final compromise which is on the table today reflects the essential spirit and fundamental purpose of this directive: to enhance patients’ rights to cross-border healthcare, while taking into account the sustainability of health systems. this is a good day for the building of a ‘europe for health’. i should like to conclude by making the following statement on an institutional aspect of the text:‘the commission has certain doubts that some of the future acts which the commission has been given the power to adopt by the legislative act would be implementing acts. when exercising its implementing powers, the commission will not adopt, on the basis of the powers granted, acts that it considers as being delegated acts within the meaning of article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.’
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in fact, this is an important day for patients in europe. it was an intolerable situation that we had the right to go to another member state, granted by the ecj, but many member states did not implement it. we referred every single patient to the courts, again all the way to the european court of justice, on a case-by-case basis. i think that is cynical, because these are weak people. they are sick, otherwise they would not need treatment, and in the worst case they could be dead before the ecj has decided the case. that is why it is high time that we clarified this in the legal sense. the commission has also been able to provide a number of information to the member states on the implementation of the directive, including the number of patients who have been referred to the european reference networks. there is also an improvement in the countries where the ecj case law has already been implemented in principle, towards a europe of the patient and a europe of health, just as the commissioner said. i have not much time, so i would like to take the last 15 seconds to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, commissioner john dalli, who has really worked hard, but above all john bowis, who is sitting in the gallery and is the father of this directive. i would like to thank you all and congratulate you.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. this is actually a redundant piece of legislation. i hope that this will also remain a redundant legislation, because patients do not have to use it. ideally, patients get the best, fastest health care in the country where they were born, or the country where they live. the fact that we have to talk about this today and that we will decide on this legislation tomorrow - mr liese is absolutely right - is actually cynical. this means that the member states have not recognised what they owe to their citizens, namely prompt, good and high-quality health care. it also shows that they prefer to invest in other things than in precisely these areas for their citizens, and that is a shame! the negotiations in the council are not a glorious record either. if this legislation is to be implemented at some point, because patients need it - bad enough! - then i am glad we have achieved this. i am grateful to the rapporteur, mrs françoise grossetête, and to my colleagues for their cooperation. we have achieved a great deal. we've finally gotten rare diseases in the spotlight. people with rare diseases have always been in a corner where they had a hard time getting treatment at all. we have finally achieved that people in the member states also have information points that inform them of their rights. i've never had that before. if reference networks are to exist in the future, then there will finally be an exchange between member states of best practice, of gold or platinum standards, of scientific progress. that's not coordinated either! it's in individual lighthouses, but not coordinated. all of these are huge successes, without me talking about outpatient treatment and the other points. of course, there are things that make me sad! this theatre and the talk about prior authorization - i would have liked it differently - also shows that the member states have not recognized what is really important. but fortunately, there are still some with whom we can work well together, as we have shown today. the goal is, and this must be our goal, that the health system in all countries will be so good that not a single person wants to go to another country whose language he or she does not speak. and if this is a small step today and tomorrow - because it becomes more transparent who is good and who is bad, who does something for its citizens and who does not - then we have already achieved a lot. i hope that's exactly the small side effect, which is transparency. where is a member state of high standard, of high level, and where is a member state of low level. i come from a member state where i can be relatively relaxed. but i know the plight of people in many other member states, and i am ashamed of that, because it is not worthy of a european union like ours. i thank the rapporteur for her work, but i thank in particular the commission, mr dalli and his team, who have been as close to the european parliament and the father - firstly mr bowis in the last legislature - in this legislation as we could wish. i would like to thank in particular the belgian presidency of the council, which is not here today but has done everything possible to make this a success. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. but it was a lot, and i think we can say yes tomorrow with a clear conscience. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the draft directive on patient mobility can very quickly lead to the reduction of healthcare in the eu to the lowest common denominator, using a service approach. my group is firmly opposed to the idea of people's wallets becoming a criterion for health care and patients becoming customers. the proposed directive gives health insurers a tool to send patients abroad for cheaper care. this practice would lead to a great deal of competition and price pressure in the health sector. if a certain treatment is cheaper a few hundred kilometres away and patients are sent there by their insurance companies, that treatment is no longer offered locally. the health sector would then be subject to the neoliberal logic of the market, rather than putting the welfare of the patient first. i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, do you want patient tourism in this sensitive sector? i'm all for keeping health care close to its patients. this is a public service mission which must be equally available to all locally.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much welcome the fact that this directive is finally coming into force. i would remind you that it seemed at one time that the whole legislative process was failing. i believe that it is thanks to the skill of the rapporteur and the mediation team - and of course also to the belgian presidency - that we now have a result with which we can certainly be very satisfied. i particularly welcome the fact that the right of member states to restrict treatment in another country has been defined more clearly here. the member states' proposal did not do so. i believe that we now have a decision that clearly explains the traceability and the verifiability of the refusal of treatment. this is a right and important step. who are we helping in particular? i think we're going to start by helping the 60,000 people who are on the waiting list for organ transplants. we have already adopted the directive on organ transplants, but here we have taken another step to reduce waiting times. on the other hand, we help the millions of people who suffer from one of the 30,000 known rare diseases. these can now be given much more targeted and better quality treatment when they seek treatment in another country. i do not think that this directive will create patient tourism in europe. that is why the fear that comes from the left of this house is completely unnecessary. we shouldn't be dealing with this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. patient mobility is a giant leap forward towards a people's europe. this directive is well designed. not only does she have a confessing father, john bowis, she also has a mother, francoise grossetête. thank you for this great effort! we have had a long discussion about the right way, and we know today that we are not yet on the highway of the motorway. but the foundation on which we can build is solid and well laid. the situation is complicated. we have 27 member states with different starting positions in both health care structures and insurance. the prior authorization of hospital stays in another member state and the recognition of the ethical and moral principles of one's own health legislation are the right way to support one's own insurance and personal responsibility, while still giving all citizens access to the services offered by other member states. this is a great advance, especially in the field of rare diseases. the member states are not equally well equipped in this area. everyone can now benefit from the knowledge and structures, and specialists can develop better because there is more demand because more people have access. for the people of my region, close to the borders with luxembourg, belgium and france, crossborder access to health services is a great asset and enrichment in everyday europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not whoever has caused this to be mixed up has not done a good service to parliament and even less to our subjects! the cost of medicines and health insurance is rising all over europe, and we are all thinking about how we can reduce it. they say that medical advances are making cures more and more expensive. in this case, which we are now dealing with, it is different. we have 30 million asthmatics in europe, and we have a small manufacturer who has developed a device that makes inhalation, which is sometimes vital and therapeutically extremely important for asthmatics, better, faster, more efficient and, above all, more cost-effective. this producer has been denied access to the market for 14 years. since 1996 he has been addressing the commission, and since 2006 the committee on petitions has been dealing with the matter. it is the commission's task, mr dalli, to help the law to be enforced and to stand with the citizens. in this case, it is not so, but the commission refuses to take a clear decision, a decision which will help the petitioner. i want to address you personally, mr. dalli, because you remember: we've invited you to the petitions committee to discuss it with you. you told us you didn't have time for this, but you did have time for a personal conversation. we came to you and spoke to you in person. you promised me personally that you would take care of the case and provide a solution very quickly. i haven't heard anything until today. i wrote you again, but i didn't get an answer. they tried to prevent the next debate. that is not how the commission should act! i want to be very clear: the european parliament expects - and we will vote on this resolution together tomorrow - that the commission will stand on the side of the law and the citizens. we expect you to guarantee protection for such small producers against those who would deny them access to the market. it is a matter of a lot of money, but it is also, and above all, a matter of people's health. we know the problem. we don't understand what you're doing, mr. dalli. we all know your arguments. i've been going through a mountain of files, but i haven't found a single piece of evidence that supports your position. it's a medical device. it's been used 30,000 times, millions of people have inhaled it, with the best results. we've got letters from health insurers asking us to allow market access to save costs. i hope that the commission will finally do its job and come to a positive decision on this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
if i may be permitted to give a brief but personal answer, i have the impression that the commissioner has not yet taken the opportunity to make his own personal and fresh impression of the matter. but this would be the opportunity, after all these years of abduction, for you, commissioner dalli, and i, to propose that you, through officials of your institution other than those who have been responsible for the abduction, take a fresh look at the matter and come to a new judgment. i'd like to discuss this with you, and i'd prefer you to sit down with the petitioner and work out a solution. i am in complete agreement with you, mr president.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i also find it very annoying that we have to switch between two topics all the time now. i wish we could have at least discussed the issues in sequence. so i will return to mr klein's petition. i am glad that we have the opportunity to talk about this, because the committee on petitions has been working on this petition for quite some time. what happened? what happened? there was an innovative entrepreneur who developed an inhaler for asthmatics. it was good for the patients because it was more tolerable. it was good for the health insurance because it was cheaper. the entrepreneur was rightly awarded. but then the shock: the inhaler was banned by german authorities, and a safeguard clause procedure was opened with the european commission. without going into all the details again, i am convinced that not everything that happened in 1996 when the first inhaler was banned was legal. the commission would have been obliged to close the safeguard clause procedure with a result in order to open the way to legal action for the parties concerned. the result is that mr klein - and i quote here the opinion of our own legal affairs committee - has been the victim of a flagrant denial of justice. commissioner, this is not a matter of assigning blame. it is important to me that a solution be found in time to finally solve this problem. i simply ask that you also respect the unanimous vote of our committee on petitions. i hope and count on your cooperation and help in the interests of the petitioners, but also in the interests of patients in the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the communication and the report are very good. i would like to thank commissioner dalli and mrs matias for that. alzheimer's is a plague of our time, and our big problem is: we just don't know enough about alzheimer's. that's why this is about research, research, research! we need to join forces. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative to create an innovation partnership on healthy ageing, and alzheimer's fits right in. the u.s. government once called the fight against cancer a beacon project many years ago. they didn't fight cancer, but a lot of drugs, a lot of therapies came out of it. that's what we need today, and that's why i welcome the focus on alzheimer's. we need to know: how can we prevent it? what can we do in the future to fight alzheimer's? this is why the european research policy cannot continue on the principle of the 'casting-pot'. we need to focus! alzheimer's could be one of our big issues to deal with!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'll speak to the petition. i've been working on this case since the spring of 2007. in the autumn of 2007, i put a question to the commission. the answer was more than unsatisfactory. i've had many conversations with the federal ministry of health and other authorities. everything was always very vague and soft. and your answer, mr. dalli, from what you've read, i gather you have no desire to pursue this case. it was not during your term of office, but you are a member of a collective body, and i ask you, also on behalf of the legal affairs committee and the committee on petitions, to provide us with all the documents on the basis of which you have decided. and i want to know, if you look at the device, why because you can tell! certain companies are not interested in another product coming to market. because it's relatively inexpensive to install the inhaler with this plastic part, but in the overall sales, the margins are there. if you look at how pharmaceutical lobbying works, if you look closely at who has what interests in the financial sector, excluding small companies, then a lot of things may become very clear. i would ask you to make a clear statement here today as to whether you will provide us with the documents and whether you are prepared to have a proper discussion with us in the committee on petitions and the legal affairs committee and not just put it off. because the citizens, even those who may not be so rich and so tall, also have a right to be treated properly.
member of the commission. − mr president, the answer is yes.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission shares the honourable member’s view that the implementation of the 116 000 hotline for missing children requires further efforts in many member states. in that respect, the revised telecom rules – and, in particular, i refer to article 27a of the universal service directive – require member states to make every effort to ensure that citizens have access to the service operating a hotline to report cases of missing children. in that respect the commission is carefully monitoring and assisting member states in the transposition of that new provision into national law, which has to be completed by 25 may 2011. on 17 november last year the commission adopted the communication entitled ‘dial 116 000: the european hotline for missing children’. the objectives of the communication are to renew the commission’s call on the member states to implement the missing children hotline as a matter of priority and to ensure that the same high quality of service is offered throughout the union to provide practical support to the member states. the communication highlights existing best practice developed by the member states to address the main problems linked to the operating cost and telecom cost of the 116 000 hotline. the commission proposes using this best practice to work out a set of common minimum standards that would guarantee a high-quality service throughout the eu so that parents and children can count on the same assistance no matter where they are. this extensive work goes beyond electronic communications issues for which i am responsible and is coordinated by my colleague, mrs reding.
vice-president of the commission. − of course we are trying to do our utmost. the line taken by the honourable member makes sense. i was indeed, earlier on, taking the line that cost is one of the issues. the hotline itself is the least part of the problem. the problem is to follow up. the issue that we should focus on is not just the hotline itself, but the follow-up. we are carefully monitoring and assisting the member states as regards implementation, and we are aware that it is up to them to take the initiative as regards national law. we are also aware that, in the current financial crisis, it is even more difficult for member states to find possibilities of financing the follow-up. some of those organisations have been the beneficiaries of eu funding for certain projects. the eu funding available is not intended to cover the full running costs of the services’ operations, but aims just to help develop the 116 000 services by means of concrete projects. of course we need to be creative. those who are involved in such projects, and national governments, should also be creative in drawing on budgetary resources, corporate social responsibility and private donations to find the means, at the end of day, of doing what we should all like to be done.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the question of traffic across the alps is an extremely serious one, but the situation does not look too bad at this stage. despite a difficult financial context, advances are being made on the brenner base tunnel and its northern and southern access routes. this project is of the highest priority, and the commission decided to allocate to it a budget of almost eur 1 billion. first, on the brenner base tunnel itself, the meeting of the austrian-italian intergovernmental commission on 19 november 2010, in the presence of eu coordinator pat cox, led to decisive progress. austria and italy confirmed an agreement on the total cost of the brenner base tunnel project at eur 8 billion. austria approved an optimised working plan which will allow preparatory works on the main tunnel to start by 2011. the italian government authorised the launch of the works with a commitment that guarantees coverage of the costs over the entire construction period. secondly, good progress can be reported on access route approaches on either side. italy has authorised the launch of works on the southern access route, starting with the first section, fortezza-ponte gardena. good progress has also been made by austria on the northern access route. austria has a section in the lower inn valley which will be completed by 2013 or even sooner. finally, regarding the cross-border connections between austria and germany, the initial goal for completing the works by 2012 at the latest will not be achieved. on the german side, works will not start before 2012 and will take an estimated three years. however, in november 2010 germany published its national investment assessment, which includes provision for positive development on the northern access route between munich and the austrian border. the one-track section will be upgraded and the whole section will be electrified. the next step will be a memorandum of understanding between germany and austria on this section and the infrastructure management planning process will have to start.
thank you for your answer, commissioner. but the second part of the question is still unanswered, in which i have dealt with the munich-mühldorf-freilassing, which is part of the main highway from paris to budapest and is particularly important because of the bavarian chemistry canal and also because of the relief of the access to the brenner. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european railway network, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway tunnel, the construction of a railway. i ask you whether you think it is possible that additional funds could be made available for this purpose in the next financial perspective, because it is cross-border.
the commission has already done so. haiti is a clear example of man-made disasters. the willingness of the international community, and above all the european union, to help is enormous. but the problem is not money, but political instability. at present, no nation is really willing to put money into a corrupt political system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. until we have a functioning system of government and a functioning administration, we have to use the aid organizations that exist, simply because there is no real alternative.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i hope and wish that today's discussion will be the starting point for a fundamental change in the way waste is disposed of in campania. the decision or the request of the european court of justice must finally be implemented and the european rules on waste collection and disposal must be applied there. secondly, the damage caused by illegal landfills must also be addressed. i know what i'm talking about. we are still faced with the burden of illegal or poor waste disposal in east germany, twenty years after reunification. but i don't think any of this is going to work unless we get to the root of the problem. we can talk about administration all we want, but there are mafia structures there. they must be crushed or we will not succeed here. i'll tell you the truth. i'd make four conditions. first, the creation of a waste management plan. i think it's in now. but the commission should also be helpful in this. secondly, the provision of financial resources to create new recycling and waste facilities. thirdly, we must create tougher penalties for illegal dumping and i also think - with regard to the commission - that europol and eurojust should support the police and prosecutors in italy in the fight against organised crime. the funds available should be frozen until these conditions are met. then i'm happy to agree to release the funds.
i have to say, madam president, i was able to learn about the situation of waste disposal in campania as part of a delegation from the committee on petitions. it must be noted that the institutions acting there face an extremely difficult task. the waste management problems of the past, present and future must be solved. my impression of this trip: the present-day waste disposal was poorly solved at the time of the visit, partly with military intervention. it was resolved at the time, the waste was taken out of the city and dumped, unfortunately, we have to say, some illegally dumped. what is missing are strategic solutions for the past, but above all for the future. the eu's offer is good, understandable and fair. if the region presents a coherent waste disposal concept, the european union will release the funds. the local authorities should be encouraged to do the same. i would like to say again, from my point of view, that the commission and we in the european parliament are not interested in fines. we are interested in seeing the waste problem resolved locally in campania. we should make this deal together and move forward.
the commission has already done so. the european convention on human rights and the european charter of fundamental rights prohibit discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. the eu institutions and all member states are obliged to combat discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation in accordance with articles 6 and 7 of the treaty on european union and article 19 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union respectively. lithuania is a member of the eu and has therefore committed itself to sharing these common values of 500 million eu citizens. i welcome first of all that in lithuania, after our first resolution in 2009, the proposed law entered into force in a watered-down form and that so far not a single case of application of this law has been known or the application has failed in relation to the ban on the christopher street day parade and it took place. i am therefore surprised that new legislative measures are now being introduced, according to which public speaking or information about homosexual relationships can lead to fines of up to 2 900 euros and that there should be no more equal opportunities for homosexuals but at least for women . i therefore welcome the commission's strategy against homophobia and would like to thank commissioner reding specifically for her presence in the house just before midnight to underline the importance of protecting these fundamental rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the main thing i remember from the last council was not in your balance sheet, and that's why i'm doing it differently. i am reminded, in fact, that at the brussels meeting of heads of state or government, the moody's rating agency lowered its thumbs for ireland. this was the situation in which we all realised how great our failures in dealing with the crisis we are facing today have been so far. anyone who studies the international comparison of the key figures for the debt crisis can only wonder how successfully speculation against the euro continues, while a country which has much bigger problems than portugal and spain - the usa - is completely ignored in all this attack by speculators against the euro currency. that's the way it is. we've started a new year, we have new problems on the table. what we said during the session, that what was decided there was not enough, is what we should be concerned about here today. i think we've all come to realize that we have problems in many european countries. they are dealing with enormous debt burdens, private debt, but also with public debt that is no longer acceptable. many countries in the european union will not be able to cope on their own. so what do we do? we believe that the reduction of public debt, as is now being undertaken in some countries, also guided by the european union and its joint decisions, is not sufficient on its own and that it is also pushing countries to the limits of what is acceptable. you have to re-examine how that can work in a really acceptable way. i believe that developments such as those in hungary are warning signs of what can be done when the distribution of wealth in the european union countries is too unfair and too wide. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. we also believe - and i say this explicitly here - that the banking sector needs to be restructured. we are not convinced that saving the walking dead in this area really justifies increasing the debt burden. i must emphasize what sylvie goulard said: we need a perspective on how we can make europeans as a whole sustainable in the context of a green new deal, how we can set the course for new things in this crisis. i would like to stress once again that europe is a wonderful home and we have a lot to do to keep it that way.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i believe that this is a serious situation, a serious hour, that we are sitting here together. first of all, mr prime minister orbán, yes, you are known to europeans as a fighter against the communist regime and for the freedom of your country. we respect that. i was glad that we were able to talk yesterday afternoon about another man on whom the hungarians can also be proud, namely the prime minister and foreign minister of your country, who together with alois mock demolished the borders between hungary and austria and thereby made german unity possible for us germans, the leader of my party, gyula horn, whom we also want to honour as a great hungarian! (applause from the centre) mr president, you have made a point of acknowledging something in your reply to the president of the commission as president of the council. you said: "if this media law is not compatible with european standards, then i will change it". that's good. but you have acknowledged that this is not a domestic political debate in hungary, but a european political debate. because it is clear that this law has something to do with the basic rules and values of the legal community that is the european union. i'm going to take two elements of this law. the law establishes a media council to ensure the balance of coverage in the media. and the law introduces the duty to balance. they have a two-thirds majority in parliament. the two-thirds majority is legitimate. with this two-thirds majority, you have filled the media council in such a way that only members of your party the government or their close are members of this media council. that means a one-sided media council controls what is balanced coverage. this is not possible in a european community of law! (applause from the centre) in a democracy, mr prime minister, the media controls the power. what this law does is it controls the media. that is not possible in a democracy, and that is why we europeans are so concerned about this law. (applause from the centre) you have rightly pointed out that we have many problems to solve. we have a severe financial crisis. we have budgetary problems to solve. the european union is also grappling with the problem of rising food prices, particularly in our neighbourhood. but in the near future, we will be able to do the same with ourselves. a problem we must address in the short term. we must look at employment in our countries. and when i read your program, i have to say, there are many things in it that we can certainly work together on. in this respect you are a true representative of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i said to him, "you talk like karl marx in exile". that all sounds good. if you'd just act like you're announcing it, that would be all right. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) so i think we have to measure you and we will measure you by what you've presented to this program here. you have indicated, mr prime minister, that you have a large majority at home. that's good. we have had to deal with many governments - including those of your party - in the past who sat here and did nothing but call home and ask if they were still in office. i'm sure we can't afford that. in that respect, your two-thirds majority is great. that'll buy you some time. but you also have a duty, the duty, to strengthen hungary with this two-thirds majority, with your strength, but also to strengthen the european union with this strength. let me ask you a question . what is the point of rolling out a carpet in the council building in brussels as a gift to the guests, with the borders of hungary drawn in 1848? what message does this send in the symbolism of europe? so i want to tell you, if you're already moving with these symbols in the 19th century, what the german philosopher friedrich nietzsche said to the germans in the 19th century: a great victory is a great danger. human nature often bears such a victory more than a defeat. yes, it almost seems easier to win such a victory than to endure it without suffering a serious defeat. i think you should consider that a large majority, a large support, is also a great duty. that is why i am addressing myself to the president of the council of the european union and not to the prime minister. the president of the council of the european union must do everything possible to remove any doubt as to the absolute readiness to defend the fundamental democratic values of europe. the best thing is that you do not wait for the commission to examine it. i would like to say to you, mr president of the commission: in austria, when a trucks ban is imposed by a federal state, the commission is thrown into a deep crisis of meaning and imposes an immediate measure against austria. if this is again a question of the foundations of european democracy, you should have a long beard! (applause from the centre) make sure the test results come quickly! otherwise, this debate will be a burden on the hungarian presidency. but we all want it to succeed and not be blocked. you, mr orbán, can do something about it. repeal the law and bring in a better one, a new one. a balanced media law for hungary! (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i want to say a few words about the media law, because many people have said that, but i don't have to repeat anything. i just want to say one thing: it is not interference in hungarian affairs, but i believe what i realized late in my life , the media are the public controllers of power, of the economy. and that's the way it should stay. the media controllers must therefore not be controlled by other higher institutions, and this would be possible with such a media council. that is why the composition of this media council is not exemplary for us. you have made it clear that you are willing to change that. i hope you're going that way. otherwise, i want to make it clear that this is a matter for hungary. there are, of course, member states where media laws could also be discussed. this is not just a matter for hungary. i would like to say quite clearly about your plans for the presidency of the council: firstly, i welcome the fact that you have identified the promotion of cultural diversity as one of your overriding objectives. i think that's very important. i look forward to your initiatives to improve integration - also of minorities - and you yourself mentioned roma. a european strategy for better integration of the roma is a very important issue. secondly, i welcome your commitment to the enlargement negotiations and the eastern neighbourhood policy. the european union can only benefit from more eastern european culture, history and social experience. the european union is still primarily a western european event for many reasons which i do not want to discuss here. i hope that your presidency will bring a little more eastern european influence. thirdly, i look forward to your contribution to the forthcoming reorientation of the agricultural and cohesion policies and the multiannual financial planning of the european union. my group calls on you to involve parliament fully in this and we expect you to take seriously your promise to support small and mediumsized enterprises and to improve the environment, the protection of resources and food security.
the council has already taken a decision on this. yesterday, in a major german newspaper, you mentioned otto graf lambsdorff as one of your role models. we last met at his memorial service in december 2009. you went there privately, which was very much appreciated. i would ask you to honour his memory by respecting, respecting and defending the foundations of the liberal constitutional state in all the measures you take. the criticism of the media law that has been voiced has been met by two arguments from your side. it is a campaign against hungary and against you personally, and the campaign is not specific. i want to make it very clear to the liberals here: this is not a campaign. it is a european issue when fundamental freedoms are being touched upon and questioned in a member state of the european union. i would say to the commission: yes, mr barroso, you must have a legal review by mrs kroes. but the commission is not just a notary's office, the commission is a political body. this review must also be political and it must be done quickly. the second point is that the criticism is not specific. mr. prime minister, a few specific points: slander, insult, incitement to hatred are also prohibited in germany and other democracies. that's what criminal law is for. please let the criminal law take its course. improve legal protection, article 163, change the composition and powers of the media council, articles 123 and 183, and much more. there are many specific points. i would suggest that you suspend the application of the law until the outcome of the commission's review, and that it must come as soon as possible.
madam president, mr orbán, president of the council! you have two difficult tasks. the first task is to overcome eight years of socialist mismanagement and to restore political and economic dynamism and stability to hungary and to reduce its debt. but the voters have given you a clear mandate. the second task is to lead europe as president in a difficult time and to do everything possible to overcome the economic and financial crisis. parliament and our group will give you full support in this. we are glad that you have not presented a wish list today, as has been the case with socialist council presidents in recent years, but have set clear priorities. thirdly, we are glad that hungary has been a member of the european union since 2004 and we are glad that the governing party is a member of the european people's party. the campaign in connection with the new media law with demands for the withdrawal of the right to vote under article 7, which was started here in parliament and not by you, but by the losers of the hungarian elections in 2010 - they sat there and they are still sitting here, those who are not rushed to the press - is hypocritical and intolerable. because the media laws of hungary the test shows that are comparable to many others. i can only say to mr schulz, who has called for the withdrawal, that he has obviously not read the law adopted by a majority of the red-green government in north rhine-westphalia. there is a media authority, there are sanctions, there is diversity of opinion. exactly what you're doing. this hypocrisy cannot have majorities here! (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. is it true that in the media law of north rhine-westphalia, media supervision is completely in the hands of one party? is it true that the media surveillance in the state of north rhine-westphalia is set by the government for nine years? is it the case that in the land of north rhine-westphalia only one party decides on balanced or unbalanced coverage? if so, you have hungarian circumstances. i don't suppose you want to. i also ask you why mrs merkel is criticizing the hungarian law, when she is a member of the ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, i am sure you will give me five minutes, madam president. (the president cut the speaker off) firstly, mrs merkel asked whether the law complies with european rules in all respects, and mr orbán has promised to amend the rules if necessary after the commission has examined them. i think it's correct, honest, open and fair to all! secondly, the media law of the state of north rhine-westphalia: no broadcast programme may unilaterally take into account only individual opinions or unilaterally serve a party or group of a community of interests, a creed or a worldview. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) it even says that the prime minister can give instructions to the state media institution and impose fines of up to 500 000 euros!
mr president, you have addressed me personally. you also approached a number of other colleagues. i would like to give you a start for the next six months on the remarks which concern the hungarian people and which you, as the representative of the hungarian people, are making. my colleague daniel cohn-bendit has told us from his personal biography what his relationship is with the hungarian people. in my group there are members who have served time in communist prisons. in my group there is a member of parliament, my colleague miguel angel martínez martínez, who was tortured by spanish torturers during the resistance against the franco regime. we all together - you and all of us sitting here - have a common task: to defend democracy, for example against people like these who are intervening right now. no one insults the hungarian people by criticizing a law. you can assume one thing: the left in this house as a whole, and my group in particular, will tell you this: values such as freedom, democracy and justice are our common values. if we believe that a law does not meet them, then that is a criticism of the law and not a criticism of the hungarian people. (applause from the centre) if we all do this together, then, mr prime minister orbán, something will happen that you need and that we need: we will not succeed in shaping europe if we divide it. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people. don't play one hat against the other. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. (applause from the centre)
i would just like to recommend that under the circumstances we vote in favour.
in writing. - i was pleased to approve the report, which, after being agreed by the council at second reading, now brings with it significant progress in the free movement of patients within the union. ambulatory treatment is now easy for union citizens, inpatient treatment much easier. this is a clear european added value. the health sector is thus gradually evolving from a patchwork of problems to a unity.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report, which sets out in a very powerful and intensive way the problems, wishes and concerns of alzheimer's patients and their carers, and calls for joint action. at present, only one in 15 europeans over 65 has dementia, and the numbers will multiply in the coming decades, so we are facing a major challenge.
in writing. - i am pleased that parliament has today succeeded in adopting a resolution on mr klein's petition. this case has been on the committee on petitions' mind for some time now. in the 1990s, mr klein invented an inhaler for asthma patients, which was twice controversially banned from sale. without going into detail, i am convinced that the first ban on inhalants in 1996 was not entirely legal. at least the circumstances that led to this are still critically to question. the commission would have been obliged to bring the safeguard clause proceedings initiated by germany to an end with a result in order to open the way to legal action to the person concerned. the procedure is still open. the legal basis and the correctness of the second prohibition can certainly be disputed. however, there also appears to have been a breach of union law. as a result, mr klein has been the victim for years of a flagrant denial of justice which must be eliminated. it is therefore important to me that the commission finds solutions in good time to finally solve this problem.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the vice-president has promised us that she will be in the european parliament more often now, so that will also be settled. i think it should be important for you, lady ashton, but also for everyone else, to note that the european parliament is producing a very large majority on this issue and that this is a sign that we have another sequence here and this is not just a resolution as usual. we must see - and you are right - that intolerance and violence based on religious beliefs, no matter what religion, cannot be tolerated. but we also have to note that 75 percent of the attacks, because of this fact, have been directed against christians in recent years. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. this is happening to a very large extent in muslim countries, but not only when i think of the persecution of christians, for example in china and other countries. we cannot tolerate violent discrimination or acts of terrorism. the death penalty for converting someone to christianity is not acceptable, nor are the actions of terrorists and terrorist organizations, nor is the sometimes disregard for state institutions that are not themselves responsible. this is leading to the end of a thousand-year-old tradition of christian groups and communities in many countries, in syria, in some parts of turkey, iraq, iran. jesus' hometown, bethlehem, will soon be without christians if the pressure continues there. when i look at the 20 million copts in egypt, i see here a very special problem that we take very seriously. we can't just talk about minorities here. i would therefore like to make two points from the resolution: in the human rights reports of the institutions of the european union - including your institution, including the european parliament - persecution of christians must be clearly mentioned. we must have our own capacities in the foreign service on the subject of christianity, and we must include human rights and religious freedom as an essential element in the treaties we conclude with other countries. this is leading to the end of a thousand-year-old tradition of christian groups and communities in many countries, in syria, in some parts of turkey, iraq, iran
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. in 2009, we have been fostering intercultural dialogue in europe: with each other, christians with muslims, orthodox with catholics, protestants with orthodox. we've tried to build trust in our community. we'll do it at home. of course, this requires that we have a viewpoint and the courage to speak up for it. we sometimes lack that, and apparently we lack it at the moment. when i read and hear that the european commission has published a youth calendar in which all the holidays of other religions but not the christian ones are mentioned, then i can only say: this will only encourage those who do such things in egypt and elsewhere to continue their terrible deeds. we have an obligation to help christians in the lands mentioned many times. they live mostly in countries - if we talk about palestine, egypt, iraq and iran - where christianity originally came from. we cannot allow these people to be driven from their homes. the fact is that they are not a minority there, but they are egyptians and palestinians just like everyone else and they want to live there, and that is made difficult for them. we must support mrs ashton in this and also try to ensure that the european union guarantees freedom of religion in all the treaties it concludes with third countries, particularly those countries. we must ensure that no one is forced to leave their country for religious reasons.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission! today we are discussing a motion for a resolution on the situation of christians worldwide in the context of religious freedom. the european parliament is committed to the promotion of fundamental freedoms and human rights worldwide. we liberals are one of the driving forces here, and that also distinguishes us from the conservatives, who are specifically focusing on the situation of christians. because it is not just about the situation of christians in general, it is about the value of religious freedom itself from a liberal point of view. and by that i mean all the religions of the world, everywhere in this one world of ours. it is a question of the protection of religious minorities and the duty of every state to protect members of threatened religious minorities to the best of its ability. we in europe have problems too. i am a berliner, and after the mood stirred up by a social-democratic ex-bundesbanker, we have had six arson attacks on mosques in berlin alone in the last six months, fortunately without any deaths. but we as a state are trying to protect religious institutions as much as possible, just as egypt has now increased its efforts after the second major terrorist attack against christians. of course, police cannot be stationed in front of every church, mosque or synagogue, and i expressly regret that in many countries - including my own - jewish institutions now resemble high-security detention facilities from the outside. that is why it is so important that we as politicians take responsibility for the respective attitudes in our country towards religious minorities and promote an open, friendly attitude towards all religions in our respective countries.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not what's this all about? is it organized crime or is it organized terrorism, political and/or religious? this is an important question in assessing the situation. experts in the region still believe that this is more a crime than a religious-motivated international terrorism. counterterrorism measures often have a fatal effect on peace and democracy and can be postponed to promote other interests. perhaps it is also about africa as europe's area of interest, in the words of gilles de kerchove, the eu's counter-terrorism coordinator, 'africa as europe's backyard'. i am opposed to a security policy which contributes to the militarization of africa. security in the sahel can only be achieved by improving the situation of the population. the increase in security and military budgets is fatal, especially in countries where there is a hunger crisis. finally, consider this: kidnapping and other crimes are a business in which many are involved in intricate constellations. western payments to security structures can be counterproductive in curbing crime and continue to endanger innocent people in the future.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. my group did not sign the compromise resolution on belarus. but i want to make it clear that this is not to be understood as accepting the election result, the arrests and the repression of dissidents in belarus. we believe that fair, transparent and democratic elections freedom of dissent to quote rosa luxemburg are a basic requirement for shaping relations with belarus as with all other states. this includes the immediate release of all political prisoners. i doubt, however, that sanctions are an effective means of releasing political prisoners immediately and of helping to bring about a change in the democratic situation in belarus. sanctions have failed in the past, in belarus and elsewhere. the commission has already made a number of proposals. confronting the political leaders in political dialogue with our arguments and demands, not giving them the opportunity to discredit critical civil society by pointing out criticism from outside, establishing transparency of politics, ensuring coherent coordination of our steps with all foreign policy partners in belarus seems to me to be the better way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. our hopes that the presidential elections in belarus would move the country towards democracy have been bitterly disappointed. despite all the negative experiences and reservations about the lukashenko government, the eu's hand has been extended in recent months. the extent to which this election would affect the prospects for cooperation was clear, and for a short time it looked as if it would be conducted in a semi-free, fair and equitable manner. but apparently, the small concessions have already shaken the repressive system to such an extent that the president has once again shown his true face as a ruthless dictator. his alleged election is a vicious fraud, his power is illegitimate, and his violence against the opposition is a brutal crime. the election fraud and the suppression of the protests are a serious setback for belarus. once again, fear and oppression reign. it is not foreign intelligence services and diplomats who have interfered, as the fraudsters boldly claim, but the provocateurs sent by the system itself. it is also outrageous that a secret service controlled by the president, still called the kgb, is terrorising the opposition and civil society with methods from the stalin era. the violation of basic civil rights by a member of the osce is unacceptable. this post-communist regime has become unbearable. we have prepared a resolution of parliament which is a good basis for the consultation of the european foreign ministers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the present crisis, and has also taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. we must now support the european-minded forces to whom we have given hope, who want and have chosen a change of policy and who see their country's future in the eu and not in closer ties with russia. the fact that the first to congratulate lukashenko on his election victory were russian president medvedev, prime minister putin and ukrainian president yanukovych shows their understanding of democracy and the bleak prospects that await belarus in this direction.
mr president, the honourable member is right. thank you for your swift response to the events in minsk. i also want to commend you on your approach. this is balanced between sanctions against those responsible for the massive human rights violations and measures for the belarusian people. i would also like to thank the munich security conference, which mr lukashenko has hosted, from this place. this was a visible sign that dictators have no place in international bodies and cannot be courted there. because international recognition of a self-proclaimed president weakens the opposition in the country and could be interpreted as international recognition of the undemocratic elections. that's why that reaction was right. we know that political change in this country requires a long breath. we also know that lukashenko has been in power for a very long time and that his reaction is typical of him. but given the humanitarian situation in the country, mrs. ashton, we can't wait. we must act quickly and ensure that political prisoners are released, that parents are returned to their children and that children are returned to their parents. because they have done nothing but demonstrate for their democratic rights and make it clear in the streets. the reactions to you were unwarranted. mrs ashton, i ask you to act quickly, to make it clear in every statement that these are political prisoners and not criminals. i send my greetings to andrei sannikau and the others who are in prison. i want them to know that they have our solidarity.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we witnessed in tunisia the rising of the people against an oppressive and abusive regime which has denied them basic human rights for years. it is a big source of shame for the eu that for many years we have been supportive of this dictatorship. to make things even worse the eu risks committing the same mistakes in tunisia’s neighbouring country, libya. if the commission and the council do not change course it will continue to prop up yet another dictator in the region in the name of stability and border control and migration. for years the gaddafi regime, one of ben ali’s best friends as we have seen recently again, has been systematically violating the human rights of its citizens and especially of migrant workers. nevertheless the eu and several of its member states have increasingly close relations with libya, and the eu is now even negotiating this framework agreement. i therefore urge the council and commission to notice the writing on the wall and ensure the following conditions are fully satisfied before we can conclude any agreement with libya: first of all, libya needs to ratify and implement the un refugee convention and grant the unchr full access to the country; secondly, it needs to guarantee adequate protection and rights for migrants and adopt asylum legislation including the principle of non-refoulement; thirdly, no readmission agreement with libya can be concluded until the high risk of inhuman and degrading treatment faced by migrants in libya has ceased to exist. and, on that matter, because i do not think this will come too soon, i really wish the commission to fail in the negotiations on the readmission agreement. furthermore, parliament needs to be fully informed at all stages of the negotiation process. the greens strongly object to any dirty deal with a dictator like gadaffi on the back of migrants and libyan citizens. continued eu support for this oppressive regime is neither in line with the eu’s values and legal commitments, nor does it serve its long-term interests in the region. as we have so vividly seen now in tunisia, only a democratic and free country will be truly stable and prosperous. let us make sure the eu does not commit the same mistake twice.
the commission has already done so. we have a responsibility to all the women, children and men who seek our protection because their lives are in danger. this responsibility derives from the moral values for which europe stands today, from the history of many europeans, which is all too often forgotten in this context, and from the legally guaranteed guarantees which derive from international treaties and conventions. if you're responsible, you're also prepared to take on burdens. this means that it must be distributed fairly among the member states. what this definitely does not mean is to put the responsibility on a few countries whose borders also happen to be the external borders of the eu, or - and this is the reprehensible thing i cannot approve of - to pay regimes like the gaddafi regime to prevent us from bearing the burden. let's get this straight: if you can discourage people from taking a dangerous journey that may put their lives in danger, that's a good thing. but gaddafi and his regime are not about saving lives or protecting lives. he's all about the hard-core math. and the european union should be careful not to become an accomplice to a regime that tramples on human rights. i myself was in camps in libya and i looked at this. we had the opportunity to speak with those in charge there. and it's not about human rights or protection, they've complained that we don't give them gunboats so they can better protect the borders, because we rightly don't supply boats to gaddafi, because they can be used as dual-use goods. we must also take that into account. and now, because we want economic benefits or a take-back agreement, to betray our values, that can't be! i also believe that the negotiating mandate must be considered by all members of parliament and not just a few. because it is not secret diplomacy that will get us further, especially after the experience we have had with the regime - and there is no other way to describe it - of gaddafi in the european union. this is another point which we should not forget here and i ask you to ensure that this is done. ana gomes has mentioned all the points which must be met in advance if there is to be any agreement at all.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. we have sometimes agreed here in the european parliament that we want to have a common european asylum system by 2012. but it also means that we have the same or similar conditions in the member states. but implementation is facing resistance, and this is mainly because we have insufficient information, sometimes no information, or sometimes even different information, when we are discussing the asylum package. in this respect, there is little or no information on the financial estimates of both the procedural directive and the costs in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the main issues are interpretation services, but also legal advice. it is not clear what effect this would actually have in the member states. on the other hand, we are also seeing, especially in the revision of the procedural directive, that it is possible to achieve a high-quality but also rapid procedural regulation, which is beneficial for both sides, because it is useful for a quick decision, so that people have clarity and a low error rate here too. the commission's proposal is therefore to be supported by the liberal group in its entirety. but we need arguments - also in the discussion with the member states - to see what the impact would be of revising this asylum package, specifically the procedural directive. we therefore ask the commission to really help us here to make this asylum package a reality by 2012 and to set up a common european asylum system.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. it is important that the eu addresses the problems of migration and asylum. the commission has put forward proposals to this effect. the commission has not yet carried out a precise analysis of the implementation of the existing legal framework. the council's proposals also lack sophisticated calculations and analyses. i would like to point out that the epp fully supports the right to asylum and the right to protection for those in need of protection. but unfortunately, the reality of the situation also leads us to the problem that the right to asylum is being used for quite different reasons or even being abused deliberately. the right to asylum and subsidiary protection is not a tool for general immigration into the 27 member states. we must also ensure that the organised traffickers in human beings do not have the opportunity to make their billions of dollars from our right to asylum and the fate of people. asylum procedures must be carried out with skill and care. the eu must guarantee protection for those who are persecuted. the new proposals therefore contain commitments by the commission to this end. i think a lot of it is right -- like interpreters, proper health care, consideration for the vulnerable. i would also like to mention some points which i consider to be problematic. the authorities of the member states are given far too few opportunities to prevent abuse. the possibility of carrying out accelerated procedures and frontier procedures should be restricted by means of a fee. if an applicant is in serious breach of its obligations to cooperate, there are few sanctions available. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. even if the application is manifestly unfounded, the accelerated procedure should be possible only after the second follow-up application. this means substantial cost increases. the free legal advice in the form of a lawyer - this is the current wording of the commission's draft - also means a considerable increase in costs for the states. i simply ask the commission to reconsider the practical consequences of its proposals, the financial implications and the problems facing the administrations of the member states. we want a high standard, but it must also be feasible and must not, above all, place completely impossible tasks on member states with particularly heavy burdens.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank you for allowing me to speak briefly again. i have a big request to make of you, commissioner füle. i want to start by saying that wrong assumptions lead to wrong cost estimates. we are not seeing a decline in the number of asylum seekers, but rather a marked increase. this is due to the visa facilitation arrangements for serbia and macedonia, for example. we are also seeing a massive increase in the abuse of the right of asylum in attempts to enter a country of the european union. if one starts from the false assumption that by contesting the first procedure in a more qualified form costs would be saved in further instances, one automatically assumes that all member states have a bad first procedure, so to speak. but that's not the case. if you raise the overall standards, then it means that there will be an increase in costs. increasing quality standards for all together and also the complication of procedures - i am willing to discuss this - in practical reality lead to more costs. i would therefore ask you once again to take the concerns of the countries seriously, because the practical reports from the countries are partly there and are also given.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. - mr president, i have to say something. competition policy is one of the most important and central policy areas of the eu. good competition policy makes for functioning markets. good competition policy also allows consumers to enjoy reasonable and affordable prices and a wide range of products. good competition policy also helps to bring growth back to europe. it is therefore essential to include all areas - as you have mentioned, commissioner - in competition policy. and it is important to strengthen small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the engines of growth in europe. this would require the removal of market barriers, and that would include the removal of excessive costs which still exist where competition does not work, for example in roaming, where there is no competition yet, which needs to be changed. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr derk jan eppink, for his excellent work and the commission. please be ambitious! (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation we have had. transport is also crucial in competition. because transport is responsible for 30 percent of co2 emissions, and i am grateful that it has been taken up that transport is also being integrated into the central demands of the europe 2020 strategy. but we have unfair competition and the commission must act. for example, in the air transport sector, the climate killer par excellence, we have vat exemption and kerosene tax exemption. in other words, the european taxpayer pays 30 billion euros a year for air transport to offer to fly from one metropolis to another at a taxi fare. the railroad has to pay for all this. we have a mandatory railroad toll for every locomotive on every mile of track. it must be raised, it is unlimited in height. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road toll is not increased. it is usually only applicable to motorways for trucks over 12 tonnes. so we have member states with high rail tolls and no road tolls at all. that can't be, because then we'll miss the target. because without a change in mobility, we're not going to be able to stop climate change. we have to! that is why you must also achieve fair competition in the transport sector!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission's report attests to the success of its competition policy. however, it must be borne in mind that unregulated competition can also contribute to rising unemployment and the gap between rich and poor. the european union still places free competition ahead of the social needs of its citizens. the free-market creed cannot hide the fact that not only do they fail time and again, but they are incapable of creating lasting social justice. a few cases of distortion of competition and price fixing will not solve this problem. a fair and at the same time social internal market can only work with strong and fair regulation. more is urgently needed. it is unacceptable, for example, to subject more and more public utilities to private competition. the report sets out guidelines for the commission's future competition policy. much stronger consumer protection, the removal of public services from the competition rules and the control of cartels - all this is urgently needed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. recommendation no 4 expects the commission to report in future on the treatment of the recommendations and to explain any deviations from them. i think that is a very sensible proposal and i would like to make it concrete. this parliament decided last year in the relevant debate that we would like to have a focus chapter on fair and non-discriminatory conditions of competition for small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission did not react. this recommendation is repeated in this recommendation for a decision by mr eppink. i would like to know from the commission whether it intends to implement this, if we decide to do so for the second time today, or at least to tell us what is preventing it from taking account in this way of the concerns of small and mediumsized enterprises in a special and concentrated way. the second point concerns the raw materials sector. i think it is very good that this report addresses the issue of the lack of transparency in the raw materials sector. and i think it's very good that he's touching on the subject of commodity speculation. i regret, however, that the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy was not taken up in its entirety, which provided that we not only - as the french presidency is doing now - address the question of speculation in agricultural raw materials, but that we also include speculation in metals. i think that's just as important.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, and the representatives of our arctic neighbours who are following this debate! it is a particular pleasure for me to present to you today the result of more than a year as rapporteur, a joint work with the shadow rapporteurs, other colleagues in the eu-arctic forum and numerous experts and representatives, also from the arctic. we have reached a broad consensus and claim to have formulated a sustainable policy towards the far north. the report analyses the new importance of the arctic region and describes how, from the european parliament's point of view, eu policy towards our northern neighbours should be shaped. my guiding principle is to offer cooperation to the states and institutions of our northern neighbourhood. we know what is already happening in bi- and multilateral cooperation between the coaches. norway and iceland are also fully linked to us in the european economic area and in schengen cooperation, apart from arctic issues. we are already involved as eu ad hoc observers in the arctic council, but i would like to make it clear that i thought it very desirable to give the eu permanent observer status. this is mainly because almost all the policies relevant to the region are at least partly decommunised. the proposal for cooperation is also formulated as such because we as the eu cannot act or initiate anything in the arctic on our own. we are largely dependent on the cooperation of the direct beneficiaries. i have also devoted a special section of this report to the human dimension. in all policy areas that can be pursued jointly, all parties must always bear in mind that it is the people of the arctic whose concerns must be given due consideration. this is true both of the indigenous peoples of the countries whose way of life and economy as such are based on the principle of sustainability and of the other citizens living there. we accept that these arctic people want to develop their habitat, not just fixate on the status quo like a national park. this is why we work with our partners to ensure that any intervention in nature and natural habitats is always carried out with the highest level of protection possible. the eu is an attractive partner for arctic states because we are pioneers in forward-looking policy areas such as environmental protection and climate change. whether or not the world's strongest single market has an ambitious environmental policy therefore makes a difference for this region. the eu is also attractive as a partner for cooperation because we are obvious customers for arctic resources - not just oil and gas, but also rare earths, for example. we should follow the good examples we see in the norwegian-russian cooperation in the shtokman field in the barents sea. the norwegian authorities cooperate in the exploitation of these resources in accordance with the highest norwegian environmental standards. on this occasion, i hope that the same will be true of the cooperation between russia and bp in the arctic sea, which was agreed last week. in the future, our earth observation satellites will be able to provide valuable support both in the environmental field and in the development of new sea routes, such as the north-east passage. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european shipping route to east asia. for an eu which claims some 40% of the world's merchant fleet, this is an important factor, especially in financial terms. our research framework programme provides valuable support for further scientific cooperation between the polar institutes on their research stations in the arctic. our partners in the north know the eu as a competent partner for cooperation. but we can do better in formulating, coordinating and implementing our policies by bringing together the relevant bodies within the commission in dg mare and also by setting up something similar in the eeas. in addition, an arctic information centre that collects and analyses all relevant information could further improve our database. the development of a circular co-financing and programming mechanism with the northern partners could also be an instrument for better and more efficient cooperation in research and development. i am confident that this policy will provide better guidance for a comprehensive and successful eu arctic policy that also benefits our northern neighbours.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i thank mr gahler for his report. it is becoming clear, and it has become clear here, that there is a great interest in the natural resources of the arctic. as a result of climate change, the region is becoming more and more capable of producing oil and gas and other resources. the better use of shipping routes has already been mentioned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution in the region. industrial development, particularly through oil and gas exploitation, the expansion of commercial fishing, increased shipping - all of this will inevitably lead to a disruption, perhaps even destruction, of the highly sensitive ecosystem - with devastating consequences. unfortunately, the report does not contain any effective strategies against these dangers, because it is still quite general. the increased geostrategic importance of the arctic has not been recognised by the eu alone and has not been discussed here. the neighbouring countries russia and the nato countries the usa, canada, denmark and norway have already started to militarize the arctic region and want to protect their interests there. climate change has led to this situation in the arctic. we must prevent its catastrophic progress, which can only lead to a rapid energy transition to renewable energies. this strategy is going in a completely different direction. we, the gue/ngl, demand that the arctic should not become the next geopolitical hotspot. we, like many environmental organizations, are calling for a moratorium on new oil-production projects in the arctic. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a permanent military presence in the arctic, and for the establishment of a permanent military presence in the arctic, in order to ensure that the arctic is not used for military purposes. since my group and i cannot agree with the outcome of the own-initiative report, the gue/ngl has tabled an alternative report. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not in favour of it, and it is not possible for us to order it from above. but there's always the question of who was spoken to. who are the states? who are the indigenous peoples? has anyone talked to the people who might benefit from the situation, or has anyone talked to the people who might lose their livelihood? i think we need to have another dialogue. the talks that have been held so far are not enough. we must try to make this dialogue very broad, and involve wider groups of the population, perhaps especially indigenous peoples.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and mr commissioner! i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr gahler, and all the shadow rapporteurs. it is true that europe must constantly face new realities and respond to changing political balances. for arctic policy, this means that we must see that the people of the region want to develop the region themselves, but also that they are open to cooperation. they do not want new contracts, but they want to develop existing conventions. climate change and global trade flows are not only risks, they are also opportunities. for the arctic, this means that the eu has the opportunity to enhance cooperation and development. because no one can tackle the impacts of climate change alone, and no one can develop the potential of the arctic region alone. the european union also has a long-term interest in the safe development of ... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − madam president, this has indeed been an interesting debate showing how many important subjects are covered by arctic cooperation, and how varied are the sensitivities in our society when discussing the arctic’s future. let me address five specific issues raised in this morning’s discussion. firstly, the arctic information centre. both the commission communication of 2008 and the council conclusions of 2009 ask the commission to explore the possibility of establishing a new arctic information centre. we are thoroughly examining the various possibilities in the european union, including the centre in rovaniemi, finland (lapland) and, above all, the role of this possible centre. secondly, the european union is the only arctic stakeholder to have recognised upfront that, as an industrialised entity, it is responsible along with other industrialised areas for the changes happening in the arctic. the commission communication gives priority to environmental protection, and the prominence of this point was maintained in the council conclusions of 2009. thirdly, we are proud of our sami eu citizens, and we are proud of the different provisions in the eu treaties and in the eu regional policy addressing the sami people. our cross-border cooperation and european instrument for democracy and human rights programmes are supporting the sami people of north-west russia and other indigenous peoples of the barents region. fourthly, the european union and member states are a leading force for arctic research in the world, and we are proud of it. this area has been mentioned in the framework programme. altogether, through the fifth, sixth and seventh framework programmes, the european union is investing eur 200 million in this field. however, trying to be the prominent and unilateral leader in overall arctic politics and policies, while not being an arctic coastal entity, will not be a wise policy to pursue. fifthly, the commission adopted in 2010 a communication on offshore drilling, which should guide our actions across the world, including the arctic region. it promotes a cautious approach that we will also apply in the arctic. this is totally in line with the eu principles of protecting the arctic and firmly asking for the highest environmental standards. mr president, honourable members, the parliament’s high north report gives a comprehensive overview of the european union’s activities, responsibilities and interests in the arctic region. it also consolidates the eu’s balanced approach to the arctic, combining its protection and its sustainable development. we are convinced that this is within our reach and that the european union will become an unavoidable and positive reference for arctic circumpolar cooperation.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to thank all the speakers. commissioner, in speaking of a policy towards our northern neighbours, i did not mean to suggest that you were now entering into a dispute with lady ashton over who should be in charge. i just wanted to make that clear. the following was clear from almost all the speeches: the challenges we face are to demonstrate through our policies that different interests and activities are compatible with each other or need to be made compatible. in a small way, you can see this from my point of view in norway, for example: they fish, they drill for oil and gas, they practice the highest environmental standards on land and in the sea, and they develop their northernmost regions for the people who live there. if we transfer this to the region as a whole by cooperating with the neighbours, we will be a model for other sensitive regions. what has changed in the political reality is that we do not believe we can force one or the other, but we are challenged to achieve all of these goals: a high standard of environmental protection, a limit on climate change, a sustainable fisheries policy, safe shipping routes, development for the inhabitants. if we try to set these goals together and achieve them, then we really achieve something in cooperation with the partners for the region and for us. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs in particular, and i am glad that this report will be the starting point for something that will continue to concern us. the vote is not supposed to end now.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for a very excellent piece of work, which has brought together many ideas in a comprehensive form, which will help us in our future work. we must ensure that this black sea cooperation is not confused with the eastern partnership, nor with our strategic relations with turkey and russia. they're different things, and it doesn't replace them. on the other hand, i find it extremely exciting that it is possible to bring these different groups together on certain issues in order to make a coherent common policy that can be in our interest and can help the countries, but through such cooperation it may also help to bring political and economic interests that are currently at odds a little closer together, in order to make conflicts in the future less dramatic and dangerous, so that for example our work with the eastern partnership is not perceived as being directed against someone, but that all this is complementary, which does not prevent us from having, for example, with the eastern partnership with these countries, different ideas about european perspectives than we can have with russia, for example, on development. we must be allowed to make this distinction, and the commissioner is certainly well aware that this is the way it should be. but for this reason, black sea cooperation is in the interests of the european union, in the interests of russia, in the interests of turkey and in the interests of the other countries in this region, most of which are members of the eastern partnership. i can imagine that this can make a significant contribution to stability in europe, both economically and politically, and i hope that we can work closely with the commissioner to promote this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the development of the black sea region into an area of stability, security, democracy and prosperity, and the meeting of these opportunities and challenges require a holistic strategy. the present resolution pursues this objective and is therefore supported by my group, also because it includes a number of proposals, such as dealing with the unresolved conflicts in the region, improving civil society cooperation, supporting people-to-people projects and giving priority to small projects in the context of crossborder cooperation. we also want a sustainable energy policy, greater energy efficiency and the creation of academic and student networks. what i do find fault with, however, is the lack of a clear position on the question of energy infrastructure in the region keywords nabuko and south stream. i cannot understand why our demand for increased monitoring of oil platforms in the black sea has been rejected. it should be a must-have after the gulf of mexico disaster. that is why we are tabled this amendment again today.
i thank you, madam president, for stopping because we have already asked you to speak, even though it is not a procedural motion, but out of courtesy to you, and also because of the substance of what you have said, i did not want to interrupt you. thank you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are also meeting with the other groups to clarify matters. we do not want to change the system in the eac, but to expand the capacities. that is why it is more precise in terms of the concept and we ask the members to accept it. we have also used the official title of the foreign service.
in paragraph 105 we would like to insert: 'calls on the member states and the commission, during the transitional period'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the violent death of the governor of punjab, salman taseer, who had always been a champion of religious tolerance, has brought to the attention of the whole world the strengthening of extremist forces in pakistan. tens of thousands of people took to the streets afterwards, not against the murder but for the assassin. taseer spoke out vehemently against the blasphemy law, which prescribes the death penalty for blasphemy. recently, a christian woman, asia bibi, was sentenced to death for allegedly insulting the prophet muhammad. as a moderate ppp politician, salman taseer was one of the strongest voices against extremism. his death weakens the government, which is struggling for political survival after the withdrawal of a coalition partner. of the 160 million pakistanis, only three million are christians. what can be done to them, a minority that has always been peaceful? europe must intervene and the south asia delegation, of which i am vice-president, will continue to support the human rights movement with determination. there must be a detailed investigation of the murder, the assassin and his accomplices must be held accountable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. pakistan is a fragile country in many ways. politically fragile, because the government is not strong enough to effectively enforce its moderate course of political and economic stabilization and because the army, by fighting extremists in the peripheral areas, is increasing their resistance. the country is economically fragile, as the global economic crisis and the devastating floods have set it back in development by years. social fragility, because the structures of society have not developed in such a way for decades that larger parts of society can participate in economic development. as the european union, we must conduct our dialogue with the political class there to promote the recognition that fundamental economic and social change is necessary to show people perspectives that are better than the alternative of turning to extremism and fundamentalism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the worst and bloodiest regimes were the anti-religious european regimes of the jacobins, the national socialists and the communists. that is why it is not helpful for mrs vergiat to attack religions in general terms. but unfortunately, religions are being misused for ideological purposes, and we have to fight against this, and this is the case in pakistan, for example. on the other hand, we must know that pakistan was created in the partition of british india on religious grounds! it has no history, but it was created as a muslim country at the time of decolonization by the colonial power. so we have to understand that it's an islamic country. but we must clearly fight for a tolerant organisation in this country, one which respects religious freedom and christians, and whose advocates we as the eu must be much more energetic than we have been so far. for who else but us europeans is going to speak for the christians of the world?
member of the commission. − mr president, the european union remains extremely concerned about the grave and deteriorating situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the islamic republic of iran. over the last two years, conditions have gone from being difficult to being near impossible for those who work to defend human rights. for nasrin sotoudeh and many others like her who work to defend the just causes of fundamental rights and freedom, working from jail is not an option. the impact of her arrest is clear: those in iran who are brave enough to stand up for those whom the state itself is supposed to protect risk being intimidated, imprisoned or worse. the european union has been speaking out; more than ten statements were released in 2010 by high representative and vice-president ashton on both the general situation and on individual cases. at the same time, the european union undertook discreet demarches with the iranian authorities seeking clarifications and explanations, and conveying clear messages on the need to improve the situation in iran. a statement on nasrin sotoudeh’s case was made by high representative and vice-president ashton on 14 january 2011, which mentioned both ms sotoudeh and ms shiva nazar ahari, a lawyer and a journalist, sentenced respectively to eleven and four years in prison. the islamic republic of iran was recently elected to the membership of the un commission on the status of women. mrs sotoudeh and ms ahari are two women who have been deprived of the very rights they were fighting to protect. the european union will continue reminding the iranian authorities that, first and foremost, they must comply with those international obligations stemming from the multilateral agreements and conventions they have signed and ratified. we will continue seeking ways to make our action in defence of human rights more effective, using all the means at our disposal. the iranian people deserve no less.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a completely unnecessary working party here in parliament on how to make the plenary more interesting. this group should have studied the plenary today. it's just a matter of time, so give us thursday afternoon. you need the right president, who's tough and flexible at the same time. then you have a lively and interesting plenary. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is a very important hour, because today, for the first time in the european parliament, we commemorate the victims of the holocaust of the roma and sinti. let me begin with the farewell letter written by a 14-year-old boy, robert reinhard, in 1943 before his deportation from a german orphanage to auschwitz. he wrote: "i have found my parents again. we're on our way to the concentration camp. i've fought my way through it, and i can take death. thank you again for everything you've done for me. greetings to all, see you in heaven. your robert. he was a good man. other this boy did not return, as did 500,000 other roma and sinti, and although roma and sinti were the first victims of factory-style mass killings, together with jews, the full truth about this is still unspoken today, 66 years later. the complicity of the majority society is also often covered up. we need the whole truth about this chapter of history. the holocaust of roma and sinti must be punished and recognised as a crime against humanity, so that this history does not repeat itself. we must fight prejudice against these people with passion. we must put an end to racist hostility and violence, as happened in hungary last year, with civil courage. freedom and equality and solidarity are not the privilege of individuals but the right of all, because human and civil rights are indivisible.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we in the socialist group held a hearing yesterday, during which we prepared the weekend's energy summit. my colleague, marita ulvskog, will be giving a more detailed account of some of the points we discussed there later, so i will confine myself to two essential elements: the 20-20-20 targets we have adopted and for which some governments in the european union have been celebrated, if we assess the implementation at national level at the present time, are at most 9% achievable. that is why the summit of this weekend is a crisis summit in terms of energy policy, and unless we make a massive reduction in our commitment, we shall not achieve these objectives. the second observation is that we are seeing a development in the energy price market which is leading to energy poverty in europe. energy and energy supply are becoming a privilege for a large proportion of households. the additional costs of rent are increasing in such a way that in future those with low incomes will have to wear a thick sweater because they cannot heat their apartment. the dependence of people on energy supplies is a matter of social injustice. this is another matter which must be addressed at an energy summit. (applause from the centre) but we shall of course be hearing other things at this summit, and i am referring to what the president of the commission said. the government of the federal republic of germany, led by the chancellor, has made a 180-degree turn. everything that was wrong about economic government, that was a socialist idea, is now right. well, better late than never. but the president of the commission is right on one point: after this u-turn, we must not allow a curve to develop which will throw the european institutions out of balance. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the commission is the central institution, and no other institution, for the following central reason: the commission is the institution that is parliamentarily bound here. and the parliamentary legitimacy of action on sovereignty issues and monetary issues are central sovereignty issues is indispensable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a basic condition for the european institutional balance. (applause from the centre) we are in a situation where europe is being challenged internally and we are being challenged in international politics. i am - i want to say this openly - appalled by the statements of some european politicians. i am appalled by the absence of europe in a historic process. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. mr van rompuy has spoken - and he has spoken well. mrs ashton is speaking - beautifully. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but there is no one there, no one on the ground, who is talking directly to the people who are defending their democracy there, about how we europeans can accompany and support this process. paper is patient, paper does not help us. we must not miss the opportunity that is there. i have to say that daniel cohn-bendit, as recently as last week, made me aware that there is a great opportunity. i have to admit, i didn't realize it at first glance, but the people who are demonstrating in the streets, the people who are leading this revolution, they have everything else in mind other than the god state. they want secularism. they want civil democracy. these are our partners! we must work with them, then it is a great opportunity for europe! (applause from the centre) and that includes mr. mubarak's resignation. that would be a good and encouraging sign. and if we talk about our values, if we talk about our democracy, if we talk about freedom of speech, then i'm glad that mrs. győri is here. i would like to say to you, mrs győri, that i have just read the reply from the hungarian government to the commission's letter. i have to say, the letter from the commission, that was great. that was the polite question: would you be willing to tell us if you could share our opinion that the law you made may not be quite right and all right? sorry we asked. and the answer is, why do you even ask us anything, we're fine. this is not how europe works! i 'll tell you again: this law is incompatible with european principles. (applause from the centre) it is not compatible with the audiovisual services directive. this is something mrs kroes herself has said in very noble terms. if this law is not changed, i feel betrayed by the president of the council. the president and prime minister of hungary said in this house: 'if the commission makes comments, we will change the law.' the commission has made the remarks, i expect hungary to amend this law. how can we talk about democracy in the mediterranean if we do not implement it in europe itself?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. i am watching hungarian domestic politics with great attention. i was in hungary a lot between 2002 and 2010. i also saw demonstrations of your uniformed jobbik party in budapest. i don't want to say what i remember about those demonstrations. as a german, i'll spare myself this. between 2002 and 2010 - to give you a clear answer - hungary was, as it is today, a democratic state governed by the rule of law, with a left-wing government that governed by democratic rules. i have no doubt that this will remain the same in hungary today under a conservative government. i know one thing for sure: your party is a right-wing, neo-fascist party! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the latest news coming from the southern mediterranean, from egypt, is that shots are being fired in cairo. the situation is escalating. i can only appeal to the european leaders, because of this news, not to wait until lunch on friday this week to agree on what the right message to send to egypt is. it is too late to make it clear to mr mubarak that his speedy withdrawal is the precondition for these unrest in egypt not to escalate but to develop along similar lines as those in tunisia. it would be a real shame if we just waited and saw what happened in egypt. (applause from the centre) this summit should be an energy summit. but when i look at his preparation, i am not surprised that other issues are now dominating the agenda. under the slogan 'we need security of energy supply', many contacts were established, including by you, mr barroso, with countries such as azerbaijan and turkmenistan. mr oettinger spoke the other day in the energy committee about how we are going to develop our energy relations with iraq, georgia and turkmenistan. i think that, in view of the events in the southern mediterranean, where we are also experiencing the consequences of our policy of interest and our foreign energy policy, this is an adventure. i know that we need diversification, because we also have a problematic and very difficult situation in the east with russia and the transit countries, belarus and ukraine. but diversification cannot mean that we should now engage more with countries in crisis and despots. energy efficiency and renewable energy are the answers to a better and more secure energy supply, and i have to say, mr barroso, you have tolerated a lot of that too. mr oettinger has neglected the field which mr piebalgs has well defined or - and this is the bad argument - he has re-engaged himself in not promoting future-oriented technologies such as renewable energy and energy efficiency and he is returning to the old energy mix. the fact that the summit is suddenly to discuss feed-in tariffs for nuclear power plants, for nuclear power - oh my goodness, where are we in this debate on modernisation and innovation? i just don't have the patience for it anymore. (applause from the centre) perhaps we have been too patient with the economic government. the germans now seem to be following the schäuble course. but what is on the table at the moment is not yet what corresponds to the state of knowledge. we need more than a minor change in the instrument of stability. we must urgently decide to change the terms of credit for greece and ireland, or we will break the necks of these countries. we need more money in the crisis instrument, otherwise we can soon forget about aid to spain and portugal. we need - so that we can understand each other clearly and clearly - a proposal at last on how we want to deal with the reconstruction of the debt. this is inevitable, everyone knows this, and we want to discuss this further in parliament.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! this european council is taking place at a time when there are an insane number of other pressing issues than those which were scheduled for discussion. mr schulz rightly pointed out that we all expect the european council to express itself and to deal with the question of egypt and what is happening there. that's right. mr schulz, i could have agreed with you 100% if you had not made the mistake in the second part of your speech of playing a cheap partisan game here, namely dealing with the hungarians. that has nothing to do with it at all, we are now talking about the council and then about the issues to be discussed. mrs harms, i have a clear message for you too. if you are right in saying that these pressing issues - economic issues, euro issues, egypt issues - must be dealt with, then you cannot at the same time reproach commissioner oettinger for not dealing sufficiently with the energy issue. this is absurd. this is because the situation requires the council to deal with other issues as well. energy policy is not good or bad if it suits your tastes or if others have a different opinion. this criterion does not allow the assessment to be made. i think the commissioner has made very thorough and sensible preparations for the summit in the last few months. the commission has not worked under the motto of constantly making new demands, but rather of preparing solidly and thoroughly and then taking action that actually leads to change. by the way, mr schulz, he is not listening at all, but that does not matter, this is the parliamentary debate game, you are obviously talking past each other (interruptions) you spoke of the poverty that can be created by energy prices. you're right about that, 80 percent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what's the problem? what part do we play in this by adopting policies that keep prices rising? that is part of it, not only that, but it is also part of an honest debate, and we must take that into account, the constantly changing conditions that are decided upon here from morning to evening. i think this summit is a great opportunity to finally take a step forward on the infrastructure issue and to make sure that investment in infrastructure and energy is made, because all the other issues depend on whether we can do that. the question is price, reliability and whether we are properly integrating renewable energies into the grid, and unfortunately we need considerable investment to do this. the state will not be able to shoulder this on its own. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. speaking of thorough preparation of the energy summit and political priorities, mr reul, how do you feel about mr oettinger warning the european union today in a major interview at the faz in germany against too ambitious targets for renewable energies? this is only a few weeks after the renewable energy directive, which we were all very proud of, came into force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are politicians who are always demanding something new, but never accomplishing anything. and there are politicians who are preparing solidly and implementing. and that's the point. i do not like the idea of constantly renewing demands, and mr oettinger is 100% right about that. let's get this organized first. mr schulz rightly pointed out that in many member states the question of efficiency is still to be solved and that in many member states the renewable energy quota is not yet reached. we're pretty good, but we're not good enough. that means we're a long way from where we want to be. sometimes it is wiser to achieve what you have set out to do before taking the second step. there are people who take the seventh step and then fall over their own legs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on friday, the first energy summit in the history of the european union will take place, because the union has direct competence in this sector for the first time with the treaty of lisbon. and i agree with mr barroso that energy policy can be the next big integration project in the european union. there are many aspects to this, and president buzek has always spoken of the need for an energy community in the eu. there were many expectations at this summit, many hopes that the strategic questions of the european union in the energy supply would be answered. what are the strategic issues? yes, mr saryusz-wolski, it is the eu's dependence on energy imports. it is the enormous waste of energy that still exists, and it is the negative consequences of the current energy system on ecosystems, particularly on the earth's atmosphere. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. it is in fact ill-prepared for the common vision we need and ill-prepared for the coherence of the means and instruments we are using. i would like to remind you that yesterday at the alternative energy summit of the s&d group a five-pillar approach was proposed on how we can answer these strategic questions, how we can reduce energy imports, reduce energy waste and of course also eliminate the negative impact on the environment. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a policy of energy efficiency but also of energy efficiency. this is a summit of innovation. i have not yet discovered that information technology plays a role as a strategic factor. so i think we need a technological revolution, and this summit should set the course. but i have a feeling he's going the wrong way.
in writing. it is shocking that christians continue to be persecuted and murdered worldwide. it is a sign of europe's poverty that the foreign ministers of the member states in the council are unable to react. you are defying the will of parliament. the eu must do something. i call on the council to show responsibility for the fundamental right of religious freedom. quickly develop a workable strategy to protect christians worldwide. and create your own unit for intercultural and religious affairs in the eu's foreign service. not now, sometime.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to repeat the request to you, mrs ashton, to provide us with the list of recipients of eu funds in these countries. there are legitimate concerns that the ben ali family clan and its companies are also benefiting from eu funds. i think we need to review our own work in this region, clarify the use of our funds and make a clear reorientation. the first thing that is needed for this clear change of direction is a new head of delegation in tunisia. i would like to read to you what he wrote to us today in an e-mail: la stratégie européenne en tunisie n'a pas besoin d'être revue. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the mediterranean region, and its efforts to promote the development of the mediterranean region have been marked by the success of the european union in the field of development cooperation. i think it is incredible that the head of delegation writes that we do not have to review our policies vis-à-vis tunisia. i call on you to take the responsibility to change the head of the delegation. if i may add one point concerning what was mentioned by ms de keyser; i think it's also time for you to support women in transition. for example, why not hold a big conference with your support where you go and support women for transition, highlighting their role and supporting them in order to strengthen and underline the secular and secular process in these countries. that could be a feminist agenda for you. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, madam high commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our response to the events in the arab world must be based on our humanity. every human being, whether muslim, jew, christian or non-confessional, has the same dignity and the same right to live in dignity. and if this is true, then it means the right of the people in the arab countries to live in freedom, in a democracy and in an order of life that respects the dignity of the human person. so today it is our duty, our responsibility and our important task for the future to say to the people of the arab world who are peacefully fighting for freedom and democracy, we stand with you in solidarity. we stand in solidarity with the peaceful muslims in the arab world. (applause from the centre) we made the mistake of turning a blind eye to totalitarian communism because we said we needed stability. we must not make that mistake today, because stability is a part of freedom and democracy, and we should support that. if what we are hearing these hours is true - i did not know that there was shooting in cairo, and so far the army has been restrained in both tunisia and egypt - that the army is using force, then it can only be for a short time. in europe we had the uprising in the gdr in 1953, in hungary in 1956, in czechoslovakia in 1968, and then solidarność. in the end, freedom will prevail, and that is why we must say to all those who are using violence today: stop shooting and give the people freedom through free elections. we should support this with our advice and action, with all our strength, including as the european parliament.
madam president, mrs ashton, i have to speak to you. i would call on you to be a little more courageous. you'll have to go to cairo before the foreign ministers' council. you will speak to the government and the opposition there, then come back to brussels and explain to your colleagues what you have seen and heard there. set the agenda and don't listen to 27 different opinions that make it very difficult to make something of them. if hugues mingarelli goes to tunis - which i think is very good - tell it in a way that we can hear it and the public can hear that europe is present. i first heard the american was there, and then i heard mingarelli was there. you are the european foreign minister, i would really advise you to do that on the one hand. on the other hand, as a european foreign minister, you do not have to jump through every hoop that is thrown at you. the comparison with 1989 has been made here today, and i think it is correct. i think tahrir square in cairo 2011 is what alexanderplatz in berlin was in 1989. there's a revolution going on. but let us remember the revolution of 1989. we had the same dilemma. we wanted freedom, stability and democracy, and we fail to recognize that this process, the transition from a stable dictatorship to a democracy, is rarely peaceful, rarely orderly, and rarely stable. in this respect, diplomacy, organization and caution also have their place. i don't want that to distract us from the joy we have in this revolution. it's a revolution against dictatorship and for freedom. i believe that europe cannot dictate the order of these countries. however, our joy must be clear, but one thing is also clear, even with limited influence: mr mubarak is certainly not a state to be made. with the violence in tahrir square today, the last vestige of legitimacy for this ruler in egypt is gone.
i have to say, madam president, lady ashton, please! my dear colleagues! what needs to be done has been said many times before and there is a broad consensus on this. our resolution is clear on tunisia, but we must make the necessary additions to the oral amendments on egypt. i think there's a reason for self-criticism. our executives in brussels and in the member states have been holding on to the status quo for too long. if we had taken our own principles seriously in day-to-day politics, in terms of the universality of human rights and democracy, we would have had to address the obvious shortcomings vis-à-vis tunisia and egypt. we knew that the measures against islamists and fundamentalists were not only against this group of people, but against any criticism of the respective government policies. it's not too late. the demand for democracy and human rights is neither an interference in internal affairs nor can it be denounced as contributing to the destabilization of the situation. no dictatorship, no authoritarian regime is inherently stable. so our policy so far has only gained time, but not stability. tunisia and egypt are examples for others. everyone knows more in the area. some are afraid to speak her name. for me, saudi arabia is one such candidate. in this situation, political leadership by the high commissioner is needed. but the 27 do not have different interests. if you have the right insights, don't wait until the last diplomatic objector has briefed his foreign minister. what senator john kerry said the other day and barack obama said tonight about egypt should have come from you too: emancipate yourself in the interests of the union, so that the eu can formulate policies for the future in its own neighbourhood and not in others. perhaps you can go to tunisia and egypt next week, and then report back to us in strasbourg the week after.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not will the situation of the people of south sudan now improve or is secession more in the interest of the west to control the oil resources? in any case, the south faces enormous challenges. without a functioning infrastructure and with the current catastrophic economy, civilian humanitarian aid will be needed for a long time. the danger of violent conflict is not, unfortunately, completely eliminated. but experts believe that these problems cannot be solved by military means. on the contrary, a focus on the military is hindering a real solution to the conflict. the necessary civilian assistance can be provided much more effectively without military escort. the military's takeover of civilian functions is hindering the sustainable development of civilian structures. an example of this is darfur. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. our demands are to concentrate on purely civilian conflict management and relief, i.e. to reduce the un mission to the civilian component and to avoid any possible use of eu/battlegroups, and we also call for a debt relief for sudan in the interests of development.
member of the commission. - mr president, catherine ashton asked me to listen to each and every one of you, and i did so attentively. i thank you for your understanding, as mrs ashton had to leave the house for imperative reasons after explaining her position as high representative on this extremely sensitive issue of sudan. in this large region of africa, we can see this clearly, and all your speeches demonstrate it, ladies and gentlemen, that what happens in one country can affect all the others in terms of development, peace or stability. it should be remembered that there are nine countries that border sudan. that's why what happened with the referendum is so important. mrs de keyser, whose role as chair of the monitoring committee i would like to commend, recalled, as did catherine ashton, the success of this referendum - an exemplary process and a transition which must be peaceful. i also want to thank the members and other actors for the good cooperation that this process has shown between the european institutions, and in particular the european parliament, since it has done so itself. many of you, ladies and gentlemen, have mentioned darfur. i have not forgotten when, as french foreign minister, i visited the el-facher camp in the heart of darfur in 2004, at the height of the crisis, and what i saw and heard. that is why i am pleased to be given the opportunity to raise this situation on behalf of catherine ashton. we are very attentive to this, and we are naturally following developments with great concern for what is happening today, naturally deploring the many human rights violations and kidnappings of un personnel. that is why we expect all parties to be involved in this peace process. naturally, this peace process must be accompanied. this is the aim of political action, of everything that is done for stability and of course, more concretely, of humanitarian aid. i would like to remind you that since 2003, mr president, the european union has contributed eur 776 million to humanitarian cooperation with sudan, particularly in darfur, which is in such great need, and in south sudan. i also want to remind or confirm that echo will remain proactive, and i want to thank all the staff who are working alongside echo in relation to the reintegration of people who would return from the north to the south in cooperation with the united nations. as regards cooperation with south sudan, the european union will provide more assistance in this very concrete area - and those who know me know my commitment today as commissioner and in other capacities before - to developing a rural development and agricultural production capacity that these populations so badly need, without always relying on imports that are becoming more expensive due to price volatility. the commission has spoken a great deal about this in its communication this morning. so in these vital sectors of rural development, agricultural development, basic services, education and health, the commission will continue to increase its assistance. we are planning to allocate 150 million euros to special funds for the most vulnerable people in sudan and, of course, in south sudan. i would like to make three further comments by telegram: one on the question of citizenship, raised by several members, expressing our full support for the work of the panel chaired by president mbeki, which is facilitating the negotiations on future citizenship and other issues which are related to this serious problem of citizenship. the european union will continue to support the international criminal court without reservation. we have repeatedly called on all authorities, and particularly those in sudan, to cooperate fully with the international criminal court. a final word on a subject which many of you have raised, mr president, namely the debt. i would like to recall the council's recent conclusions, which were very clear: the european union will support debt relief for this country, taking into account, like other partners, the progress we expect, which we want to support and encourage politically, economically and in terms of stability in the country. these are the answers i wanted to make on behalf of catherine ashton.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the appointment of senior officials of the european supervisory authorities.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, why are we here? mr barnier said: we are here because the european parliament has succeeded in creating european supervisory bodies worthy of the name. this was not part of the council's plan. this was not part of the member states' plan. and the commission also had doubts about how far our breath will actually go in creating this new institution. the council will understand - it will have to understand - and the commission will understand - perhaps even from its own point of view - why we are concerned. no, this european parliament - and i am making this statement across the political groups, not just for us social democrats - will not allow national games to be played which undermine the powers of these new supervisory bodies. and that's why we're interested in personnel selection. we have rights, we have to be asked. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. we get lists of individuals, we get lists where we can't really see that there was a gender criterion, we get suggestions where we - and i say this in appreciation of the people involved - don't see anyone we think couldn't do their job properly. these are obviously good people who have already proven themselves in their jobs, but the people we are presenting are not people who can tell national supervisors where they are in a conflict of interest on the basis of their own authority from their past work. and where there is european supervision, there is national momentum. we are surprised, we are upset and we must be alert. no, these procedures are unsatisfactory and i wonder why we cannot, for example, have the same working methods as those of olaf, where you are interested in the opinion of this house. why not? we still have a chance with the executive directors. you can still prove that you are interested in the opinion of the european parliament. you still have a chance. and i would urge both of them, the council representative, the honourable ex-colleague, and the esteemed commissioner, to seize this opportunity. you may take the objections of this house. you can make very clear how you want to work with us in the future. you can say very clearly what objectives you will support in the 2013 reform, how you will equip the institutions. and you'll be able to tell us very clearly if you're interested in our opinion on the pending recruitment. i therefore urge you, in the interests of europe, to settle this matter quickly.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in my view, the point now is to really use the possibilities of the law in the sense of strong financial supervision in europe, and we have doubts whether these possibilities are really being used institutionally. we see shortcomings in the procedure, we as a parliament have not yet received the list of candidates in advance, but only the final result. it would be a simple matter to send it to us now for the executive directors. we clearly have a lack of gender balance in the filling of the posts, and we have doubts, because of certain incidents in the process, that the member states are really filling this institution in the european interest. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but beyond that, of course, there is the question of the suitability of the individual, and each person must be judged individually and according to his or her competence. there are two big problems. we have seen in the hearings that one of the candidates refused to say that it was a european institution, but spoke of a network of supervisory authorities, and was not prepared to correct this even when asked. we have not received any clear statements on the question of whether they are prepared to make all lobbying contacts with the financial industry transparent. we have sent a letter to all three candidates and for us the outcome of the vote depends on whether we get clear and comprehensive answers to it.
the debate was closed by the tabling of three motions for resolutions1under rule 120 of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. the written declaration (article 149)
the next item is the joint debate on the recommendation by francesca balzani, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the geneva agreement on trade in bananas between the european union and brazil, costa rica, ecuador, guatemala, honduras, colombia, mexico, nicaragua, panama, peru and venezuela and of an agreement on trade in bananas between the european union and the united states of america [07782/2010 - c7-0148/2010 - 2010/0057(nle) ] (a7-0002/2011), the report by francesca balzani, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council regulation (ec) no 1964/2005 on customs duties on bananas [com (2010) 0096 - c74-0002010 - 2010/0056 (cod) ] (a7-0007-0007) and the commission's reply to the question on the conclusion of the agreement on trade in bananas by francesca balzani, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the bananas agreement (oj l 137, 13.11.2011, p.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the tuberculosis vaccination initiative by louis michel, charles goerens, antonyia parvanova, frédérique ries, olle schmidt, maria da graça carvalho, nessa childers, marc tarabella, bart staes, marina yannakoudakis, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-0203/2010 - b7-0006/2011).
the debate was closed by the tabling of four motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the one-minute explanations of vote on rule 150 of the rules of procedure on important political questions.
that concludes this item.
the next item is the joint debate on recommendation for second reading by charles goerens, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the development finance facility [16447/1/2010 - c7-0424/2010 - 2010/0059 (cod) ] (a7-0009/2011) recommendation for second reading by barbara lochbihler and kinga gál, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide [16446/1/2010 - c7-0427/2010 - 2009/b0060 (cod) ] (a7-0014/2011) recommendation for second reading by gay mitchell, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the development finance facility for international cooperation (a7-0047/2010 - c7-026/2010 (cod)) (a4-0044/2016) recommendation for second reading on the regulation establishing a financing instrument for international cooperation (a4-0026/2010 (cod)) on behalf of the committee on trade and cooperation, on development and cooperation, on international trade) regulation (a4-0047/2010 (a4-0060/2001) second reading on the regulation establishing a financing instrument for international cooperation for the development of industrial cooperation (a4-0070 (a4-0060/2016)
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the guarantee of human rights and the promotion and development of democratic structures, as well as the fight against corruption, are the central demands of those who are taking to the streets in tunisia, egypt and yemen - peacefully and in the hope of bringing about change. the people of the maghreb and the arab world should also be able to exercise their right to freedom of expression and freedom of the press, their right to free elections and their right to participate in society. our financing instrument for democracy and human rights aims to promote the implementation of these rights and has so far been able to act only to a very limited extent in the countries mentioned because the conditions in those countries are such that most of those who had a different opinion had to expect persecution and torture. i very much welcome the fact that, as we heard yesterday in the working party, the commission has already made detailed plans to use the financial instrument in such a way that it now comes to short, medium and longterm projects which are now supporting the democratic transformation in tunisia. it would be good if we could develop a model from this in the future which could also be applied when other countries undergo such a fundamental transformation. i very much hope that the commission will also take up the suggestions made by the parliament's delegation to tunisia, such as the reform of the judiciary. the instrument for democracy and human rights is structured to support those working to improve the human rights situation in different social structures. these can be governments, international human rights institutions or individuals who need support as human rights defenders. it is a good structure, because it may be possible to act without the consent of the government. i do not see this as interference in internal affairs, because the very nature of human rights is to provide the means of defence against state coercion and state violence against the population, against the individual citizen. we must of course review the individual projects, but also the priorities of the human rights and democracy instrument and subject them to constant critical evaluation. the instrument was still relatively new and it is not useful to make a meaningless assessment here. it is therefore all the more important that we now prepare and carry out the large-scale evaluation that lies ahead. it must be designed to clarify the effects of individual measures and to allow for possible reorientations of priorities and working methods. the complementarity between all financial instruments is a fundamental principle of this financial instrument as well. however, in practice we find that this relatively small financial instrument finances projects that could be clearly linked to a geographical instrument. the question also arises in the human rights dialogues. we must therefore not agree to any cuts in this small instrument and we must also ensure that there is no funding where it is not appropriate. finally, on the delegated acts, on which no agreement has yet been reached for all the financial instruments: in many policy areas, such as the environment and transport, there is no dispute over what is considered to be delegated acts. but in foreign policy this is seen as very controversial. but it is very important, especially after the treaty of lisbon, that we as parliament also have the right to take part in the decision-making process on the strategic programming of the financial instruments in the field of foreign policy.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i'm not going to tell you. i am not going to go into detail. the financial instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries will be fundamentally changed during this parliamentary term. we want to spend up to €348 million together on cooperation in areas such as science, academic exchanges - including erasmus mundus - culture, environmental protection and renewable energy, and stimulating bilateral trade relations. the commission will be able to take account of the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. the new ici plus will also be used to finance projects in developing countries, projects which do not fall within the general definition of development aid. this includes projects and measures such as the secondment of european students to universities in africa, asia or latin america - a new trend. the eu's responsibility for the partnership-based restructuring of cooperation with a growing number of countries has increased, and the possibility of self-determined development is particularly relevant. the new version of the regulation clearly identifies the opportunities and challenges arising from geographical enlargement. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the programme. the new instrument also requires that, when allocating funds, the regulation ensures that partner countries comply with the international labour organisation's core labour standards and are committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions as an important contribution to the international fight against climate change. equally important, the rule of law and decent work are being made the objective of cooperation. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i believe it is absolutely essential to ensure that no concessions are made to the basic principles of the european union when granting financial aid. in future, policy coherence will be required in supporting developing countries, in particular in relation to food security. in the first reading vote in plenary, we decided by a majority, albeit a narrow majority, not to reallocate funds to ici plus that were previously earmarked for development aid. we are going into the second reading with an accelerated understanding of this and all the financial instruments. we have adapted ici plus to the challenges of the future, following successful compromise negotiations between the council and the european parliament. our agreement on all the substantive issues was approved by a majority in the plenary. so far, so good - it seems. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the question of democracy, the socalled delegated acts, on which the european parliament, the commission and the council still have different views, is at stake. what's this about? we want to fulfil what we consider to be our duty to the voters. we want to see whether the multiannual strategic planning by the eda and the commission for the implementation of our regulations is also in line with the spirit of the legislators. in the past, the commission has unfortunately too often said: paper is patient. the treaty of lisbon gives us a new role and duty as legislators, and we are calling for a veto. all the rapporteurs for the various instruments of foreign policy financing, the committee chairmen and the group chairmen agree: we will fight for this democratic right! the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am here to replace andris piebalgs, who is abroad due to a long foreseen engagement, on the second debate on these external relations financial instruments. my first words are those of thanks to the rapporteurs, ms gál, ms lochbihler, mr mitchell, mr scholz and mr goerens. we have cooperated very well on these files and, apart from delegated acts, there is a lot of convergence in substance among the three institutions concerned. the remaining outstanding issues are due to the wider interinstitutional relationship in a new treaty environment. we now find ourselves at a difficult political and operational juncture that partners abroad do not understand, because implementation of basic acts is an internal eu affair. though as trade commissioner i am not responsible for any of these instruments, they do support a whole range of eu policy objectives, including trade, and allow us to remain relevant as foreign policy actors. since your last debate in october, the year ended without a first-reading agreement. you know the situation. parliament expects article 290 of the treaty, outlining the procedure known as delegated acts, to be applied to the adoption of strategy papers and multiannual action programmes. but in its first-reading position the council rejected those of your amendments relating to delegated acts. it is very important that we come to an agreement soon, in particular for ici plus and the proposal for banana accompanying measures. otherwise the commission is unable to implement the relevant budget. more specifically for ici plus, i think that everyone agrees that this instrument is designed to promote eu interests in industrialised countries, some of them key strategic partners who will not wait for us to be administratively ready. others are competing to fill in gaps we create, whether it be energy cooperation, business support, digital agenda objectives, etc. as for the banana accompanying measures, i can only stress, with some resonance i hope as trade commissioner, that they are integrally linked with the geneva agreement which brought an end to our longest trade dispute in wto and gatt, which lasted almost 20 years. the accompanying measures are intended to support 10 banana-exporting acp countries in their adaptation to a reduction in their preferential margin as a result of the geneva agreement. it is of the utmost importance, therefore, that we preserve the eu’s credibility as an international trade negotiator by honouring our commitments and, in this case, we owe it especially to acp banana-producing countries. look at the broader picture of world food trade at the moment and the hardship faced in some countries that are heavily dependent on export revenues from one or few commodities. i really feel a sense of urgency here. i understand parliament’s concern to be involved in the strategy papers and multiannual programming. the commission has come forward with proposals to enhance parliamentary scrutiny and offers other compromise solutions, but these have failed to gain traction both in parliament and in the council. i am here today to reiterate the commitment catherine ashton and andris piebalgs made to you last october to seek practical political solutions. let us, council, commission, parliament, work towards agreed outcomes now during the second reading and all engage purposefully to achieve this objective. further delays carry with them budgetary, political, legal and even socio-economic consequences. at the same time as the lisbon treaty changed the comitology system and assigned new powers to the european parliament, it endowed the eu with a stronger role and new structures to pursue foreign policy more coherently, more comprehensively and with greater commonality. thank you for your attention and i am looking forward to the debate.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to address a few points. first of all i want to raise the issue of flexibility of financing instruments in the external area. over the last few weeks and months we have all seen a lot of unforeseen catastrophes and events unfolding, and under the external heading we have almost no more margins left, while there are still a few years to go. at the same time there is one instrument which is flexible, namely the stability instrument, which is then often used for other purposes than it was actually created for. so i think we can agree that we need more flexibility in the foreign policy instruments, but we must underline that this can only go with enhanced democratic scrutiny at the same time. we are currently fighting on this issue, and we also need to signal that, while for the future of the financial instruments there needs to be more flexibility, we cannot go ahead with that without the enhanced democratic scrutiny that we ask for. second point: we have to rethink how we do our work and provide our aid in fragile states. just yesterday the un made once again the link between development and conflict, and pointed out that those countries that are in conflict are, of course, those that have the hardest time getting out of poverty. so far the eu instruments have not really been adapted. we have eu missions in some of these fragile states working alongside, but not always together with, our financial instruments. so we have to reflect on what would be a good way of combining these two. last point, quickly, the events in north africa have shown us the importance of human rights and democracy promotion, and for me also gender equality, and we need to be more daring in this regard in the future when revising the structures.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we should make it clear that we attach importance to distinguishing between legislative and executive functions in these financial instruments. it is not the role of a parliament to carry out detailed management tasks or to carry out projects. on the other hand, legislation cannot be a matter of giving a free hand for years and not intervening when something is done against the will of the legislator. that is why, whether it is a delegated act or not, we must have the possibility of reversing decisions where the legislator considers that the implementation is not in the spirit of the legislator. that is why the commission and the council must act on this issue, under whatever legal framework or, where appropriate, in the framework of delegated acts, in order to find a sensible and appropriate solution, because this will also mean that we will interfere less in executive matters and therefore, where things are going well, the executive arm will have more freedom. i would like to add my voice to what mrs brandtner said: parliament has for years been promoting the instrument of democracy and human rights, with the possibility of supporting civil society and democratic forces, bypassing governments and dictatorships. we are now seeing that, contrary to the will of the legislator, the commission and now the foreign office have not applied this instrument in any way in this sense, which is a crucial point for the situation we are in in north africa today. because this is a political failure, a failure to carry out the will of the legislator, the regulation must be changed, and we will fight for it.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i think that the debate on these delegated acts has made it very clear why we in parliament want this. we do not want micro-management, but we want to be able to handle the instrument in a responsible and informed way, so that we can also correct any errors if necessary. if we talk about parliament's position to the outside world, for example to human rights organisations, which could be affected, and if we - which i hope not - fail to reach an agreement and then individual projects cannot be implemented, then i find agreement and understanding for parliament's position. so it is not that parliament and the council are not understood here. let me say a few words about the criticism that too much money is being spent here in parliament on human rights and democratic development: i have to prove otherwise. if we look at this instrument for human rights and democracy promotion, it is already clear that - the instrument has only been in existence since 2004 - a lot can be done with relatively little money. we cannot put this in a blanket way, but we have to look at what these projects have done. and it was only in very rare cases that projects could not be continued. if you really want what is in the eu's core values, that you want people to be able to live freely, free from want and free from fear, then you have to promote human rights. and that is where the instrument is a very good complement to the policy we pursue when we ask other countries to do so. so it's not too much money - on the contrary, it needs to be supported financially much more clearly.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. yes, mr gucht, you are quite right, it is not understandable why we cannot reach an agreement with the council. the council is not even present at the debate, which i deeply regret, because that does not bode well for the conclusion of the second reading. we must therefore ask why a normal principle and right, enshrined in the treaty, is not being recognised. i think that mr brok has already explained this in detail, that the point is that we have the means to intervene. perhaps this is why i would like to give you another example: in the commission's multiannual plan for my ici instrument, the reference document is not the amended regulation, but the global europe strategy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the instrument is intended to address, quite literally, the difficulties faced by eu companies in penetrating certain markets. i can only repeat that the legislators did not plan the instrument for this and did not foresee the use of taxpayers' money. we believe that ici should be a modern cooperation programme, not a weapon of conquest. the commission has also made it clear that it is not only a matter of the countries of south-east asia being junior partners to us, as the commission has said, but that cooperation with central asia should not be limited to the eu's access to its gas reserves. the maghreb and the middle east are two examples of the need to think longterm and big things together. i hope that the new regulation will be sustainable. in addition, this financial instrument also benefits the equal exchange between the eu and third countries and helps to promote global openness and responsible support for sustainable development processes in the interest of citizens.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today.
the next item is the report by mr karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on waste electrical and electronic equipment (recast) (com (2008) 0810 - c6-0472/2008 - 2008/0241 (cod)) (a7-0229/2010).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the good people in this house and the commission who have helped me during this period. it wasn't that easy. the cooperation with the commission has been excellent and i would also like to express my sincere thanks to the staff of my office who have worked around the clock on this report. electronic waste is not about enforcing exaggerated environmental standards. on the one hand, it is very much about environmental standards, but on the other hand, it is also about how we can safeguard our raw materials in europe. because we all know that raw materials are going to be scarce in the foreseeable future, and what good is excellent technology if we run out of raw materials? we must therefore also look at this report from an economic point of view, and unfortunately we find that we have a lot of weaknesses. we collect in europe in very different ways: the best ones are in the north, they collect 16 kg per capita and the worst ones are in a country where my name comes from, and they only collect 1 kg per year. 16 to 1 the good collector must not be hidden, but the bad collector must also be named, and i am very happy to do so. we must finally arrive at uniform criteria in this directive. we haven't had that yet. everyone does what he wants, everyone defines how he wants. that is why those who collect so little are hardly liable to be sued, because they are doing the right thing by their own standards. this must change in the european union, because we live in a single market. sometimes it seems to be forgotten here. we must not give up the enormous advantages of this european union. so it's only right that this swiss cheese with holes finally becomes a cheese made of more cheese and fewer holes. the commission is now on the right track, but unfortunately it has been somewhat lax in its controls in recent years. i would have liked to see the commission much more involved in this. but that's in the past, and we hope that's better in the future. it is not so easy when the member states - and my country is not so easy - go their own way. it is right that we define the objectives of the collection better. it is right that we curb illegal exports. you're making your hair stand on end. we have information from countries with large ports, where 420 containers of high-quality electronic waste were examined, and 360 of them were illegal. our children are going to ask us some very unpleasant questions if we don't stop this, because a ton of tinplate has 200 grams of gold and a ton of ore has 2 grams of gold. we cannot afford to do that in the future, and i hope that the public will now finally become more aware of these economic issues as well. that's why we want to have a more dedicated take-back system. we want to make it clear that small appliances which are thrown away very quickly can also be given away free of charge. we can make exceptions for very small businesses, but in principle it should be easier to hand over electronic devices and not throw them in the garbage can, because we want to have the valuable raw material. that's our main objective. illegal shipments must be stopped. the scope of application must be changed. if you produce a lamp today, you have to register it in europe in all 27 member states before you can even sell it, just because of the waste directive. it has to be more modern and attractive, and that's what we're doing.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the amount of waste from old equipment is increasing dramatically. millions of tonnes of e-waste accumulate in the eu every year, posing a real threat to people and the environment. i am glad that mr florenz's report acknowledges this problem and that we have been able to achieve some welcome improvements across the political groups in the committee on the environment. the more stringent export regulations for electrical and electronic scrap are important. i hope that you, ladies and gentlemen, will confirm this regulation and thus protect, above all, the people in the countries concerned. i am still not in favour of excluding solar panels from the directive. i am very critical of the voluntary withdrawal of producers. the solar panels of a few manufacturers contain toxic cadmium. an additional risk is that the modules are often uninstalled by home improvement workers. nanomaterials can also become hazardous to humans and the environment in the recycling process. there is strong evidence that some nanomaterials may be harmful to health. i therefore call on the commission to examine nanomaterials more closely. products shall not be placed on the market unless it is clearly established that they do not present a risk. we have therefore tabled two amendments with the greens and we ask for your support. these are amendments nos 101 and 102.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to address the honourable member by name, but unfortunately i do not know him because i have never seen him in the debate on electronic waste. maybe it's because you've got a new haircut and i don't recognize you. but what answer will you give to the citizens when you find out in five or six years that our raw materials have run out and are lying somewhere in the water or in the garbage? you'll have to explain that. the second question is: please read the directive. it doesn't say anything about the taxpayer paying, but we have a producer responsibility. it's being intensified and continued. it's also right. i would like to hear your answer to these two questions again.
member of the commission. − madam president, many honourable members of this parliament mentioned implementation, which is truly a problem. unfortunately, it is not a problem in this area only, but a problem across the whole environmental spectrum. to be precise, i know my treaty duty, and i intend to do it to the full. we are also preparing a communication on implementation later this year, which would deal with the question of implementation in a more holistic way. we are already discussing it thoroughly together with the directorate, because i believe that this is one of the questions on which we should focus in the future, including, of course, in the proposals which we are discussing today. by the way, the recast proposal certainly facilitates implementation. secondly, the targets. it is of fundamental importance that we have ambitious targets. many of you mentioned that this is the fastest-growing waste stream. many of you mentioned that we are living in a world of electric and electronic devices, and this is something we certainly have to take into account when deciding on targets. thirdly, costs. whenever we propose any proposal, we also have to take into account the burden of the costs and make things as simple as possible. however, i want to be clear that the real cost to our society and our economy would come if we were not to deal with these questions. that would be the real cost, to which in the longer term we would not be able to respond. we published 14 days ago the so-called waste report. that very day i also visited unicor, which is one of the hi-tech companies that recycle electrical and electronic waste. i was struck by what i learned and saw there. it is extremely important that we understand that, for example, the mobile phones we hold in our hands in our daily lives, actually contain precious materials, from gold to platinum to rhodium, which are extremely important for the future. if we continue now and always to extract raw materials, we will never see the end of things. i held in my hands 20 kilos of gold produced from mobile phones. it was very difficult to lift, but to be honest it was even more difficult to leave it! many of you mentioned the most important term to be addressed in this context, and that is resource efficiency. i have already mentioned this fact many times, but it is extremely important that we never forget it. according to un data, in the 20th century the growth of our human population was four times, our output growth was 40 times, co2 emissions 17 times, energy consumption 16 times, fish catches 35 times and water consumption 9 times. if anybody thinks it can continue like that in the 21st century then they are simply terribly mistaken. we have to do things differently. that is why, as i mentioned, now that we are living in an ever more electric and electronic world, the proposal which is on the table today and which you will debate later, is extremely important for dealing with these questions. many of you also mentioned better reporting and better sorting. all of this should be given our attention. in conclusion i would just like to say that, after the first reading, i believe we have a good product, worthy to be worked on at second reading and finalised into something that i am sure will be even better.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. i can only support your last words, particularly on resource efficiency. but they will be the focus of the whole decision in the next few months, because now a common position will be developed. you have to decide and negotiate with the council, and i can tell you that in the last seven months the european council has not moved an inch, and that was not because of the belgian presidency. there are some very stubborn countries, and i can say, in the light of the great consensus, that the colleagues who have spoken with fire and flame for this report today must also please speak to their governments at home and say that things cannot go on as they have in the past. i could name a few old friends who could really get their hands on it. i think, therefore, commissioner, that we will have to have intensive consultations in the coming months. the council must remain firm, and it must also be pointed out once again that there is a strong desire for national regulation in waste policy. but this is counterproductive, because the single market has been born and we must now educate it properly. the problem is not the whole single market, but half of it. once again, the 16 to 1 keyword -- as richard seeber has made clear -- shows that we have a lot to do. if we agree on that, then we're on the right track. commissioner, i have no doubt that you know your duties. i would like to emphasize that you are doing your job very well, and we will toast you, sometimes a little strongly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. waste knows no borders, especially electronic and electrical waste. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the rules on disposal and recovery be harmonised between and within the member states of the european union and, above all, that any export of waste be prohibited without certified and environmentally sound disposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall speak again on voting behaviour, because i was unfortunately unable to speak yesterday. i would like to bow to the people of tunisia, who have peacefully swept away a dictatorship, and i hope that the transitional government in tunisia will see our resolution as an opportunity to find the way to democracy. at the same time, i would like to apologise once again to the citizens of tunisia, because it is obvious that we as the european union and as politicians were not prepared for this sudden change. we have underestimated the power of the people, if you will, and we should take this as an opportunity to analyse things better in the future and to be able to react appropriately to such phenomena if necessary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i hope that the citizens of campania will take the resolution adopted today as an encouragement. we were not about discrediting or bad-mouthing a region, nor were we about fighting any kind of internal political battles. the european union's fair offer to campania is: develop a holistic waste management concept that is logical, holistic, environmentally friendly, efficient and free from corruption. and the european union is helping you with financial resources. when this message arrives, i hope that we can discuss at some point that the emergency in campania is finally and permanently resolved.
in writing. the fdp in the european parliament generally supports the waste directive. the problem remains with photovoltaics. there is no comprehensible reason why an entire industry should be exempted from regulation. we regulate waste streams in many legislative areas, so it's not clear why an entire industry that is expected to have large waste streams is excluded. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks.
in writing. the fdp in the european parliament generally supports the waste directive. the problem remains with photovoltaics. there is no comprehensible reason why an entire industry should be exempted from regulation. we regulate waste flows in many pieces of legislation, so it is not clear why an entire industry, where large waste flows are expected, is excluded. that is why i abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. the fdp in the european parliament generally supports the waste directive. the problem remains with photovoltaics. there is no comprehensible reason why an entire industry should be exempted from regulation. we regulate waste streams in many legislative areas, so it's not clear why an entire industry that is expected to have large waste streams is excluded. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks.
in writing. the fdp in the european parliament generally supports the waste directive. the problem remains with photovoltaics. there is no comprehensible reason why an entire industry should be exempted from regulation. we regulate waste streams in many legislative areas, so it's not clear why an entire industry that is expected to have large waste streams is excluded. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks.
in writing. - i am in general in favour of the directive on waste disposal. the problem remains with photovoltaics. there is no comprehensible reason why an entire industry should be exempted from regulation. we regulate waste streams in many legislative areas, so it's not clear why an entire industry that is expected to have large waste streams is excluded. that is why i abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. the fdp in the european parliament generally supports the waste directive. the problem remains with photovoltaics. there is no reason why the solar industry should be exempt from regulation. we regulate waste streams in many laws, so it is not clear why an entire industry, where large waste streams are expected, is being excluded, especially since the solar industry will be a significant contributor to the waste stream in the foreseeable future when the first bulk solar panels installed on european roofs will need to be replaced. solar cells can contain toxins and be recycled. that is why i abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. - i naturally support the idea of improving the collection rates of electrical appliances throughout europe, not least to make it easier to recycle scarce raw materials. i would also like to stress that my home country, germany, is already well positioned in this area and has found balanced recycling solutions for consumers and businesses alike. the improvement in the use of raw materials does not require any change in this system. the eu commission also did not want to change this. the report now approved, however, unfortunately also contains many new burdens which may be disproportionate to trade and the electrical trades, especially smes. that's why i didn't agree. the obligation to take back also non-standard goods, which may involve the separation of products containing pollutants from those containing no pollutants and the separation of broken and recyclable products, entails additional costs and a high level of red tape. this cannot be the case for smes. the exception of micro-enterprises with very little space is not sufficient. the approach is commendable, but it does not address the whole problem, nor does it conform to the 'think small first' principle we have established for sme policy at eu level.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i think that on the one hand, because of the experience in the khodorkovsky case, we should definitely debate the state of the law in russia. but we have good reason to be concerned about the situation in this great neighbour to the east of the continent, given the duma elections which are due to take place this autumn. we are all faced with the question of whether we are doing enough to promote human rights, civil rights and freedom in our neighbourhood. many of us have also asked ourselves, with self-criticism, whether they have always debated what was necessary in relation to egypt and tunisia. i do not want us to allow ourselves such negligence on our own continent in the east and therefore i plead that we should absolutely raise the issue of the rule of law in russia this week - or more precisely tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. president we, the socialist group, have to make the same request. i would, however, like to recommend to mr mauro and the house that we be a little more precise. we are dealing with a very huge influx. italy, like any other mediterranean country, is certainly overwhelmed by the challenge of dealing with the present problem alone. and certainly italy will not be the only country that will face the mass influx of refugees. we can assume that malta, greece and spain will also be faced with the problem in the foreseeable future. we therefore ask that the title of the debate be very precise, namely a statement by the commission on immediate action by the european union to assist italy and other eu countries affected in managing the influx of refugees.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, i would like to make it very clear once again: we would like the commission to issue a statement on immediate european union action to help italy and other countries affected to cope with the current influx of refugees.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to ask for a clarification of the rules of procedure. i do not know whether we as the european parliament are in a position to have a fundamental debate on the european arrest warrant. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to decide on the issue of the arrest warrant. if that were the case, i would also like to present a few cases that we can discuss. but i would urge you not to make ongoing proceedings the subject of a fundamental debate in the european parliament.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the services directive has been discussed here in the european parliament for a long time, and in the discussions we have given a lot of thought to how it should be implemented and how we can ensure that service providers can move freely in the european union. that was a very important piece of policy. that is why we decided as a parliament that we would not only want to make the laws, but also to check how the services directive is actually being implemented in the member states. because we want it to be done right, correctly and well. the european commission has also promised to help us. i would therefore like to thank commissioner barnier, who has provided us with valuable information in this context. we have been thinking in particular about four specific topics: the evaluation procedure, the single points of contact, administrative cooperation and the scope of the directive. the first point i would like to make is this: the mutual evaluation is one of the key elements of what has been done, where we as parliament and i as rapporteur at the time said that we are actually against it because it means a lot of bureaucracy in the member states. i also hear from the member states today that they are complaining about the bureaucracy. but i would like to make it clear to the member states once again: you wanted this, not parliament! they have put this into law and then they are supposed to take responsibility for it themselves, even if, for example, the municipalities start discussing what the europeans have done to them. the second point is the contact persons: this is the answer to what we have done in a political sense. we have made it quite clear that the principle of the services directive is not the principle of the country of origin but the principle of the country of destination. this means that service providers must respect the law of the country in which they operate. it is therefore all the more important that they receive, through the contact points, not only the information on the law they have to respect, but also the necessary assistance to be able to apply the law in a truly consistent and good way in the member states. i find it very regrettable that these contact points have been set up in many countries - not yet in all - but are very inadequate. some of them are just web portals. this is not enough for us as the european parliament, there must be much more to it. there must be people behind it who can really help the service providers in this area. it's also about the language that's being offered. it is not enough to offer the mother tongue and perhaps english. i think it is important for service providers in particular to be able to speak the language of the neighbouring country. i say this with regard to my polish colleague, the president. in the border area between germany and poland, german should be offered in poland and polish in germany, so that the information and help can be really good, so that even small businesses, not all of which know english so well, can really move around in border traffic. administrative cooperation is a second important point. we're on the right track. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not affected by the failure of the member states to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the treaty. i expect the member states to respect that too. if they want to include these services in the scope of the services directive, that is their right. but then they should not blame it on the services directive, but rather it is their own political will and they should take responsibility for it. that is what i ask of the member states in this context.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. implementation reports are extremely demanding and they promise little media attention, but they are of great importance for the design of the european internal market, especially in this era. i would therefore like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to the report, in particular the rapporteur and our shadow rapporteur, malgorzata handzlik. the commissioner pointed out that 90% of all new jobs created in the european single market are in the tertiary sector, in the services sector. this means, from my point of view and from the point of view of the epp group, that the delay in implementation, which has occurred and is occurring in a few member states, but in some member states at least, must be stopped. we ask the commission to make a real effort to ensure that the services directive, which has been in force for some time, is actually implemented immediately. secondly, because 90% of all jobs are created in this sector, this also means that the scope of the directive must be reviewed regularly by the commission to see if there is a need to include other sectors, which may be admittedly very small, in the scope of the directive. thirdly, i would point out that the creation of the single point of contact - and this has been mentioned on several occasions - is the core of european administrative law. i therefore understand that the member states have complained at one time or another about bureaucratic procedures in the mutual evaluation process. but if you want the single market, you must also work to make it work and succeed. i am therefore very pleased, commissioner, that you have received at least a thousand proposals for notification in which member states have changed their national laws. i hope you get more. the whole thing is not intended to be a bureaucratic overhang for the local authorities, but to make the internal market viable for service providers.
mr president, commissioner barnier, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the european union does not have the best reputation. this is often due to the fact that the balance between freedom and safety of the workforce is not maintained or has to be restored in many places. the services directive is an example of this, because it is an important driver of the internal market, but it also highlights the limits of this internal market. the review is therefore correct. this is a complex problem to which evelyne gebhardt has given excellent answers. however, there are still some requirements that need to be fulfilled. the services directive must in no way undermine the basic principle of 'equal pay for equal work at the same place'. we must therefore, with all the means of control we have, ensure that this does not happen through crossborder services. the single point of contact must provide fair access to the market of the country in which the service is to be provided. but this is not just for the service providers themselves and the companies, for which, for example, in my home town of essen, six officials feel responsible for four cities, but also for the employees. the language spoken by these single contacts is therefore crucial. we have had a rather hopeless debate on this in the committee on regional development. i think that the languages of the neighbours should be used.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the free movement of workers, the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services are important pillars of our internal market. however, these must not be a gateway to social dumping. service providers must respect the law of the country in which they operate. the principle of the country of destination must therefore be applied consistently. all member states must do their homework to ensure that this is the case. my own country, germany, has not done this homework because it lacks a clear framework for fair mobility and social security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. we need - as my colleague mr geier has already said - counselling centres in different languages for posted workers, not just for companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the freedom to provide services is also a benefit for workers.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. the discussion was very interesting and enlightening. but i have also noticed that there are still people who have in mind the old proposal by mr bolkestein, which actually provided for liberalisation and deregulation, although that is really the past and the services directive as we have it today is about allowing people with their qualifications to offer their services throughout the european union. that is what the services directive is about and it is important to say that again and again! i would like to stress that again. and we've changed that very clearly. i would also like to remind you that we do have a social clause in the services directive. in article 1 we have inserted the fact that the application of the services directive cannot call into question the labour and social law of the member states. and when this happens in a member state - and i said this at the beginning - it is a misapplication of the services directive. when you talk about rüffert and other people, it has nothing to do with the services directive. this is a matter of the posting of workers directive and its implementation. and that has to do with the award guidelines. please don't compare apples and pears. apples and pears may make a good compote in the end, but in politics it is a totally wrong application. so we really need to be very careful about what happens. i repeat my appeal that we must ensure that the services directive is correctly implemented in the member states and is not used to abolish rights, to deregulate - that is not the task of the services directive!it is, of course, a clear requirement for us that we need in the european union in any case a legal framework to protect services of general economic interest. i am very much looking forward to what the commission will give us on this matter.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. this is the second time that the subject of enhanced cooperation has been discussed. we have already decided on closer cooperation under the lisbon treaty for the first time in the field of family law a few months ago, and now we are going to do it for the second time. it is a purely procedural decision to be made here. i say this explicitly because we are not discussing the content of the questions at present. that will happen at a later date. i should like to begin by saying that i was very pleased to see the hungarian presidency here today. this is a first, as it were, because i believe it is the first time in the history of the european parliament that the presidency is present on a monday evening. that perhaps also shows how important this dossier is to what we are dealing with here today. since 2001, we have been discussing the question of the european patent on the basis of a proposal from the european commission. the parliament has made a very specific and also solution-oriented statement on the first reading in the palacio report. the council was unable to reach agreement on the patent, and this was mainly due to two problems. the first concerns the problem of the courts which courts should be competent for which disputes , but above all the language problem. the judicial problem may be solved very soon by a decision of the european court of justice in an opinion at the beginning of march, when we will know exactly what is feasible and what is not. but we have not yet made any progress in the field of languages. the belgian presidency was forced to conclude last autumn that it was obvious that a solution to the language dispute was definitely not possible, at least not on the basis of unanimity as provided for in the lisbon treaty. there is simply a diametrical contradiction between the principle that there are 23 official languages in the european union, which are in principle equal, and the fact that a patent, in particular, is causing enormous costs through translations. in this context, we always have the problem that if we have a patent translated into all the languages, then, regardless of the risk of litigation that might arise in the various member states, small and mediumsized enterprises cannot really do anything with that patent because it becomes much too expensive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the patent is valid in all the member states. that is something that certainly needs to change. the european parliament has called for progress on the european patent dozens of times in resolutions since 2000 with a view to the lisbon process, with a view to the new 2020 process. i think that's enough. the belgian presidency has asked the commission to submit a specific proposal for the procedure for enhanced cooperation. the commission has taken up this initiative. the council has formally asked us for our consent. the legal committee voted strongly in favour, 16 to 5. the proposal has now been endorsed by 25 member states. it is simply time to take a step forward and give parliament's approval to this procedure, so that there is finally light at the end of the tunnel. i want to close with one last point. we don't have many resources in europe. what we have is our minds, is our creativity, is the ideas that are born on this continent. that is why it is of vital importance to us that these ideas are also protected. i wonder: how can we stand up to china, to india, to many other large developing nations in the world and say, "you have to protect intellectual property rights", when we ourselves are not able to do so even in europe? that is why we need this qualitative progress towards a european patent. that is why i am in favour of this proposal for closer cooperation and i appeal to you to support it!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the explanation given by the rapporteur is correct and there is nothing to add to it. my group will therefore also support enhanced cooperation. there were also some dissenting opinions - this is legitimate, they should also be heard. but what the rapporteur, the council presidency and the commissioner have said shows that now is the time, we cannot waste any more time. it is not as some people say that all this is coming up very quickly without any discussion. no, the argument is wrong, as are other arguments. the language question has not only been discussed since the commission put forward its last proposal last year, it has been discussed for a decade or more. so this is nothing new. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now we really have to break the knot! the second argument which is always made against this is that we would destroy the single market. we have no single market in patents, so it cannot be destroyed. if we are aware, as we have been for a long time, that the single market really needs a single patent to complete it, then the whole single market cannot be destroyed. the worst case scenario is that we stay with the status quo. but i think we're going to get there. the third argument, which is being put forward specifically, is that parliament would be giving up its rights by agreeing to enhanced cooperation: none of this is true. i would suggest that you look at the treaty of lisbon and our rules of procedure. we're not losing any rights. we are now giving our consent to enhanced cooperation, and when it begins we shall all have our rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we are not giving up any rights, quite the opposite!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many good arguments have been put forward. i would like to touch on a few of the main points. we should therefore support mr lehne's appeal and accept commissioner barnier's proposal. i would also like to mention specifically the successful work of the belgian presidency in this context and in other areas. the presidency has also done a great deal on other matters. this is a procedural decision. mr lehne has already mentioned this. it is not a question of which language is spoken in europe by how many people in the world and which is the most beautiful, but a procedural decision which the council wishes to take. this procedural decision - the green member who spoke earlier is quite right - should be carefully examined. but this is not the wish of a subgroup in the european council of ministers to create a language regime here, but it is 25 out of 27 member states. i therefore believe that, even if we are careful about the decision to approve enhanced cooperation, we as the european parliament can very well give our consent at this point.
member of the commission. - mrs handzlik, i am going back to your last remark to recall, before we get to the procedure, the substance of the things on which we have worked a lot, as has been said, with the belgian presidency and, in recent weeks, with the hungarian presidency. if a bulgarian, slovak, latvian or portuguese company wants to apply for a patent in its own language, it can do so with the proposal we are discussing, and the translation costs will be reimbursed. in the event of a dispute, the company will receive a manual translation into its own language. if, before receiving the translation, he does not respect the patent because he does not understand it well, his good faith will be protected. so she won't have to pay for the damages. i would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are talking about what is or will be on the table. i have proposed that a company wishing to apply for a patent should be able to do so, including in its own language. legal protection will be provided in one of the three languages of the european patent history, which is the munich convention. i didn't invent it, that convention, it's been around for a long time. there are three languages. one of these three languages will be used - english, french or german - to ensure automatic legal protection throughout the union. with the belgian presidency we have added a proposal which will probably be discussed, namely that in addition to one of these three languages for legal protection, two other languages may be used with a manual translation, languages which will not have legal value but which are of very high value for information and communication of what is contained in the patent. english, for example, could be used if you want to use english, or portuguese, or latvian, or dutch, with translation into any of the three languages. and this translation will also be free and supported. so here we are: one of the three languages for legal protection plus two other languages for information and communication. i would add for the last time that there will be no discrimination against any european company, including those located in a member state which has not joined enhanced cooperation. in other words, if a spanish company files a patent with the european formula, it will be able to use it without any discrimination if spain did not join the enhanced cooperation immediately. that is what it is all about and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i have worked very hard on this subject as i promised to do. i worked on it seriously, without ideology, without bias, taking into account all the obstacles and with the concern to move forward. that is why i think this is a proposal which is politically acceptable to the 27 member states and economically necessary for all businesses in the european union. mrs herczog has very well said - as president harbour and others have said - as mr schwab has - the economic importance of this case. we need to encourage, stimulate, protect, reward creativity and innovation. this is one of the areas where europe still has an advantage. let us guard that advantage, strengthen it, protect it. many small businesses, lacking this european patent, no longer have the financial capacity to protect their inventions. and what's going on? mrs roithová has just used the word 'counterfeit'. if you do not protect your patent because you cannot afford to protect it throughout the union, will it be protected in two or three member states? and in all the other states, the counterfeit goods will be allowed in? once they are in, they are in the internal market and jobs are being destroyed and public safety or health is being jeopardized. i am talking, for example, about the invention of medicines. this is a very serious matter and that is why we have dealt with it seriously, without ideology, with the sole concern of moving forward and finding a reasonable solution which i frankly believe is acceptable. finally, mr president, i would like to respond to a remark by mr lópez-istúriz, whom i listened to very carefully, and by mrs lichtenberger, who said that such enhanced cooperation, which today, as i speak, would include 25 out of 27 member states, could be used to fragment the single market. i sincerely believe that there is no such risk. why would you do that? because we are in a totally exceptional situation, in legislation relating to the single market, where unanimity is required. in almost all other single market regulations or legislation we are in the qualified majority. in that case, we need unanimity. that is why i believe that there is no risk of fragmentation beyond the vigilance of the european commission to avoid any form of fragmentation of the single market. i would like to thank mr lehne again for his willingness and commitment and the members of the legal affairs committee and thank you in advance for your support for this enhanced cooperation on the basis of this objective proposal.
the president of the council. - thank you very much, mr. president. in my first speech tonight, i spoke in one language which is the language of european patents and in two languages which are not yet the languages of european patents. let me speak in my native language, which is also not the language of european patents as things stand. a language spoken by only 15 million people in the world, 10 million of them in hungary. so i say to the spanish and italian delegates in particular, believe me, we are very concerned about the equality, the importance and the use of languages. and let me make a small exception on behalf of a member state which, until six weeks ago, i represented - i do not have a member state, but until six weeks ago i represented a member state which had a different view on the question of patents. the hungarian government has changed its previous position in recent months. it wasn't an easy decision. and what was the move that the hungarian government saw through was that we had a very serious dialogue with the business community, with the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises, and they clearly asked that the government change its previous reluctant, rather negative stance in order to allow hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises to be part of the single european patent and to achieve savings through a functioning language regime. the situation that has developed so far - 25 out of 27 - is far from ideal. we all, hungary, have always been in favour of the single market from the very beginning. we hope and believe that this will strengthen european growth, which many members have said is a necessity in the post-crisis european union. we have to do everything we can to stop it. the single european patent and the language regime as one element of this, i believe, must be seen in this context. and as commissioner barnier has said, i think that both italian and spanish companies will benefit from the creation of this single european patent system. i'd like to respond to two more comments. one is where this great hurry is going and why this great speed, since the commission only presented its proposal in july. in fact, you've already answered that question. let me just say that the debate on language regimes has been going on for ten years in the union, so i think there is no rush. another comment was made on the ultima ratio, whether we have really done everything to achieve a solution acceptable to all member states. i think the belgian presidency has done everything it can. if we look back over the autumn, we see how many new proposals were put forward with the intention of making the single market work in all 27 countries. unfortunately, despite all the efforts, 12 countries finally asked for enhanced cooperation in december, and as already mentioned, the number has now increased to 25. so there was nothing to do here, and the presidency had no choice but to resort to enhanced cooperation, and to that end it asked, and i now ask, for your support in voting. we need the single market, we need to strengthen it. we know, several studies show, that one of the main obstacles is the lack of uniform patent protection, so let's make sure that this does not hinder innovation and better performance, especially for our small and medium-sized enterprises.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in conclusion, i would like to make three points. commissioner barnier has already pointed out that enhanced cooperation was specifically created to overcome obstacles in the area of unanimity. unanimity is the absolute exception under the lisbon treaty. that means we're dealing with a very small number of cases. the procedure for enhanced cooperation was created for this very purpose. keyword language: that's not what today is about. i would like to emphasize once again that today is all about procedure. but i 'll tell you what . of course, we also discussed at the time, in the palacio report, that one language is even cheaper than three. but it has also been pointed out that we are dealing with the european patent convention (epc). the european patent office operates in the languages agreed in the epc. a change of regime would inevitably mean that we would have to change the epc. but the member states of the union cannot amend the epc alone, because all the countries of europe - i think with the exception of malta - are members of the epc. all of them would have to agree, including switzerland, for example. if we cannot agree with the 27 member states of the eu, how are we to agree with the 39 member states of the epc? if we ask for that, we'll have to postpone the whole thing until neverland. but we shall discuss this question when we look at the commission's substantive proposal. the legal services of all three institutions have, moreover, explicitly confirmed the possibility of closer cooperation in this area. i would like to make one further comment on the languages: the practitioners do not understand the dispute we are having here for political reasons anyway. the fact is that practitioners - those who apply for patents - are in fact working in one language in their research activities. and this fundamental language dispute is something that is hardly understandable to the parties involved. finally, on the subject of discrimination: if i have understood this correctly - and i am sure i have - this new european patent is open to all companies, all inventors, including those from countries which are not members of enhanced cooperation, and indeed to all countries in the world. it's obvious. there is no disadvantage for those countries which do not participate in enhanced cooperation. the european patent convention is still applicable to them. so if i want to get a bundle patent in these states, i have to get it translated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if a member state thinks that its language is so important that all patents must be translated into its own language, then let it do so! but please don't do it at the expense of the patent holders, the ones who are innovating and driving our economy forward. rather, the principle is that whoever orders the music must also pay for it. then it is up to the states and therefore the taxpayer to pay for it. if you consider your own language so important that you believe it must be used in all patents applicable in europe, then you should be consistent and have the patents legally translated into that language. then you'll have to pay for it yourself. this is perhaps my last point to bring the discussion to a head.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 february 2011. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by ivo belet, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation (euratom) laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactivity in food and feed in the event of a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency [com (2010) 0184 c7-0137/2010 2010/0098 (cns) ].
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we are dealing with these commission proposals because the existing regulation expired in 2010. in the course of working on this proposal i recalled working with one of my green predecessors here in parliament, undine von blottnitz, in the mid-1980s as a staff member on the consequences of chernobyl here in the house - which was still looking a little different at the time. one of the biggest problems after the chernobyl accident was the lack of transparency and the lack of the possibility of full democratic control. i find it shocking, to be honest, that we have to argue almost defensively here today that we cannot do what we have on the table here according to euratom rules, but that we must do consumer protection, civil protection in the event of major accidents in nuclear installations, based on the rules of the european treaty, so that we have complete control and say-so. i would like to appeal once again - and especially to mr barnier, who is from france - to see that this is changed. in france, at that time, it was as if the radioactive clouds were moving around france. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to point out that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road transport sector is not compromised by the fact that the road transport sector is not covered by the directive. the recommendations in the united states are ten times lower than what is recommended here today by the european commission, by euratom. i think you should really follow me and fiona hall on this one.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. a comprehensive danube strategy, bringing together all the regions concerned, their people and the member states, is a great asset and holds enormous potential for sustainable development for the whole river basin. economic and environmental aspects can be brought into a sensible and forward-looking balance. social problems can be solved by working together. the biodiversity and cultural diversity of the entire river basin can be successfully marketed in joint tourism projects. but the most important thing is that such cooperation prevents the destructive floods. we can well remember the years when poverty and misery marked the region in many parts. it is therefore important that the upstream and downstream regions cooperate in the common danube strategy of the european union and preserve the naturalness of the river. but it still means innovation and progress. it is possible to learn from past mistakes and not repeat them. that is why ships must adapt to the river, not the river to ships. we have a great opportunity because we have the technical know-how and the potential in the region. this can mean enormous innovation and a global marketing strategy for the river basin. in this context, it also seems to me important that the european parliament should correct the commission's proposal in one place in its resolution: there is already an international agreement on joint river cooperation, which is very important, similar to the one in the baltic region, and which is a consensus, and which has ensured that in this joint statement it is possible to develop the river in an environmentally friendly way and that the river can still be used as a shipping route. it is very important that the commission does not go beyond that. to make this possible, we need independent experts and, above all, transparency. the experience in the baltic region has shown that transparency and public participation are crucial to ensure that actions in the river basin are supported by all, that we work forward for the next generation and that such cooperation is successful. it is very sensible to use the money available here and to consider whether all the measures originally envisaged were correct and how this can be corrected in the interests of a sound ecologically and economically balanced cooperation and development of the whole river area.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not it is important that strategy development is an open process, not just a few influential actors. that means we also have to find solutions for conflicting interests. the commission has also proposed that the project be extended to include the danube, which is a natural and cultural heritage of the danube. the technical possibilities must be used to adapt the vessels to the river, not the other way around. this is the free-flowing danube in bavaria. the fact that a commission communication does not now attempt to use the most environmentally friendly and technically possible means is extremely critical. contrary to previous recommendations, the commission is adopting the type of equipment to enable category 4b vessels to operate all year round by 2015. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of the environment as a means of achieving economic and social cohesion. this presumption must be withdrawn. in conclusion, i also call for the eu roma inclusion strategy to be linked to the danube strategy. this must be reflected in our resolution in parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, scientific advances over recent decades have contributed to an increase in the use of cord blood stem cells in medicines. the use of such cells has led to positive results in treating patients with blood disorders such as leukaemia. in future, cord blood stem cells could possibly be used to treat other conditions, in particular genetic diseases. similarly, adult stem cells are also showing promising potential. however, research still needs to bring proof of such potential benefits for both kinds of stem cells. the transplantation of substances of human origin, including cells, carries risks of disease transmission and that is why there is a european legal framework in place to ensure the quality and safety of human tissues and cells throughout the union. however, let me make this very clear: member states alone decide whether and how to use cord blood stem cells. the eu has no competence to harmonise the use of cells. the tissues and cells directive explicitly mentions that the eu should not interfere with national decisions concerning the use or non-use of any specific type of human cells. if, however, a member state decides to use cord blood cells then it must fulfil the directive’s requirements on quality and safety, protect public health and guarantee respect for fundamental rights. i agree with you that it is important to provide accurate and objective information to citizens about the advantages and limitations of the use of cord blood stem cells. providing such information is, again, the competence of the member states. the commission encourages member states to take such action and some have indeed already done so. finally, i can reassure you that the commission regularly monitors the transposition and implementation of the tissues and cells directive. in fact, the commission adopted a communication on the application of the directive, which was sent to parliament in january 2010.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'm glad you're taking the time to discuss this important matter with us at this late hour. i am not going to go into detail. stem cell research offers great opportunities for patients who are not yet sufficiently helped. much of this is still in the basic research stage and uncertain, but there are also over 70 diseases for which adult stem cells and cord blood cells can be used to help patients in some way. the cord blood cells are now used primarily for allogeneic transplantation, that is, cord blood can be used to help children who do not have their own cord blood - for example, in the treatment of leukemia. but there are also approaches to autologous therapy, meaning that the child from whom the cord blood comes can benefit from it in a few narrowly defined areas today. i think that this is why we must have a policy to support, within the limits of our powers, public umbilical cord patients in particular. we can encourage it, we can't prescribe it. but we should not ban autologous treatment and its measures. in the end, it should be up to the parents themselves, but the government policy should inform about the opportunities and risks. we need clear standards of quality and safety. we must be vigilant to ensure that we do not offer cells which, when they are needed, are no longer useful because they have not met quality and safety standards. we need to prioritize research in this area, because it turns out that this kind of research is very patient-centric, and we also need to make sure that parents can decide that cord blood is not just thrown away, because in the future it might be valuable to other children, and maybe even to their own child. we should be focusing on this, as i said, within the framework of our powers, but we can already do a lot.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr callanan, and the shadow rapporteurs, on their efforts in reaching agreement on the commission proposal on light commercial vehicles. in the aftermath of the economic downturn, as mr callanan mentioned, these discussions were indeed difficult. let me be clear: the compromise package resulting from these interinstitutional discussions is less ambitious than the commission proposal on a number of points. mainly, full compliance with the short-term target is delayed by one year; the level of the penalty for non-compliance – the ‘excess emissions premium’ – has been lowered; and the ambition of the long-term target has been decreased. it will therefore not come as a surprise to anybody if i say that i would have preferred a more ambitious outcome, and many of you probably share that view. nevertheless, this compromise still represents an important step forward. by 2020, it will bring down the average co2 emissions of vans from the 2007 baseline of 203 grams of co2 per kilometre to 147 grams per kilometre. this will mean an average emission reduction in the van fleet of 28% over 13 years. in view of the expected growing demand for light commercial vehicles, the increased efficiency will represent an important contribution to the reduction of transport emissions. the compromise will also generate lifetime net savings for consumers, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, of over eur 2 200 per vehicle. moreover, the targets will stimulate innovation in industry and enable manufacturers to take advantage of the transition to a low-carbon economy and thus enhance their long-term competitiveness. let us not forget that this regulation should give manufacturers a first mover advantage in world markets where similar co2 standards are likely to follow and the demand for efficient vehicles is expected to rise. in addition, this regulation will close a major regulatory gap between cars and vans and therefore minimise potential perverse effects on the regulation on co2 in passenger cars. large cars will not be able to escape the co2 emission standards simply by changing the vehicle’s category to ‘van’ when type-approved. finally, as you know, transport is today emitting more than in 1990, thus offsetting to a large extent the reductions made in other sectors. this is, of course, not sustainable. transport must make a substantial contribution to the eu’s overall co2 targets. this regulation is one more instrument that will help the member states to meet their 2020 commitments to reduce co2 from sectors outside the eu ets. i believe that this agreement is yet more proof of the european union’s commitment towards meeting its climate goals and i hope that you will lend your support to the compromise package when you vote later today.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. - mr president, i have to say something. the first reading should be the exception. in this case it was possible because we found a compromise on the most contentious issue between the commission's proposals, the proposals of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the proposals of the committee on industry, research and energy. the fact that we entered into these negotiations with a joint negotiating mandate from all the political groups has made it possible to achieve this result. i would like to thank martin callanan in particular for his commitment. the result can be seen. it is largely identical to the proposal of the committee on industry. i believe that we have launched an ambitious project, which can be achieved by industry and which will enable users in particular to benefit from affordable, yet modern, less carbon-intensive vehicles, in particular smes, small and medium-sized enterprises, craftsmen, retailers and micro-enterprises that use these vehicles. (the president cut the speaker off) in my dossier to the committee on industry there is one item which was not adopted, but which was adopted by a narrow majority. these were the proposed speed limiters. that is a matter for the member states. this has to be arranged individually. that is why we are satisfied with the compromise as a whole. the committee on industry can help with all this.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to begin by thanking you for your constructive cooperation. we are deciding today on a good compromise between ecological and economic aspects. even if we could have gone further in terms of the limit, i think that what we are voting on today is the strictest legislation in the world on light commercial vehicles. we should not forget that. the commissioner has already said that, apart from the emissions trading system, these small sectoral legislative procedures which we are launching are very important in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. not only for the climate, but also for the air quality, there is an added value in vehicles consuming less. the limit of 147 g, or 5.6 litres of diesel, also reduces emissions. that means our cities are getting better air quality. this is an important step we're taking today. my group agrees with this compromise package because it includes an important point, namely that by 2014 at the latest it will be examined whether the values we have decided today are being met or exceeded and whether there is a need for further adjustments. that was a basic requirement for our group. i have had a long discussion with my colleague mario pirillo on what this compromise should look like, and that was a basic prerequisite for this compromise package. the first reading has already been discussed. we should make sure that in future we do not conclude so many first reading agreements. in this case, it's fine, because in the end, the negotiations only turned out to be about 2 grams. that should not have been brought up in the second reading. but parliament is depriving itself of its own rights if we conclude everything here at first reading. i would like to mention one more point: the test cycle. it will be very important in the future to have a uniform test cycle, which hopefully will also be global at some point, and which corresponds to the realities. the test cycles as they exist today do not correspond to reality. this needs to be fixed. international negotiations are under way and i hope that these negotiations will be brought to a successful conclusion, because then the real driving cycles will be reflected in such legislative procedures. thank you again to everyone involved. today is a good day for the european union's climate policy and also for environmental policy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the debate on whether it is sensible or not to agree on the first reading should not be conducted with the same principle as i have heard from some colleagues. that should depend on the file. how do the lines of discussion go, how controversial is that? in the present case, the co2 regulation of light commercial vehicles, it is clear that the institutions were not that far apart. it would not have been worthwhile to have a second reading, except on a subject which is now being discussed very intensely, namely the long-term objective. the eu commission has never really explained and the impact assessments do not show how a step towards reducing emissions - ms hedegaard just mentioned the figures - from 203 g today to 135 g within ten years is to be economically feasible. that's a 34% drop. this goes way beyond the climate targets we normally set for ourselves. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. we did. i am glad that mathias groote has taken up my argument here and now, because at 147 g fleet average we are a long way from what the commission once proposed, but it is still by far the most ambitious thing we will ever find in the world. we should not convince ourselves that a co2 limit for light commercial vehicles will save the world's climate! i thank the rapporteur for his cooperation. i am glad that we have achieved a large majority for this compromise.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. before i get to light commercial vehicles, i would like to remind you that european car manufacturers will have met the eu co2 emission targets for passenger cars many years before the 2015 deadline, and that will be by technical measures. it is now clear that manufacturers have greatly exaggerated when the period and targets for co2 reduction measures for passenger cars were negotiated and weakened. the same lobbying pattern was repeated by manufacturers in the light commercial vehicle co2 reduction targets. i wonder how a majority of the people in this parliament who have eyes to see can repeat this mistake, this falling to their knees before the car industry. in times of climate change, i am concerned about the environment and the future of humanity. if parliament were to follow the commission's proposal, the european car industry could become a pioneer in technical developments and remain competitive. the commission had proposed a co2 reduction target of 135 grams co2/km. manufacturers should comply with this limit only in 2020 after a transitional period. i think that would have been possible. instead, a lazy compromise was negotiated behind closed doors under pressure from the council. the car manufacturers are now only required to reduce co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles to 197 grams co2/km by 2020. this is a gift to industry! super credits, phase-in and pooling are moving further up the already weak threshold. the lobbying of manufacturers in the house and the pressure exerted by the german, french and italian autonomous communities in the council have led to this poor result with a whole range of loopholes. the report presented is untenable! it is contrary to the eu's climate objectives and hinders technological innovation. the gue/ngl will vote against this report.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we should not be having a climate debate today, but we should simply be doing what is possible. i welcome the compromise reached. with the limitation of emissions to 147 g/km from 2020, we are now setting very clear targets. this creates incentives for new technologies for energy efficiency and climate protection. the users of the vehicles also benefit from the innovations, because they save fuel and thus money. small vans are used primarily by small and mediumsized businesses, but also by agriculture and wine-growing. and they're mostly used for short distances, often for many years, until the company is passed on to the successor. the costs must be kept within the limits of the budget. higher investment costs must be financed by energy efficiency and energy savings. the long-term target of 2020 now allows sufficient time for transitional periods to allow research and industry to develop and manufacture new engines. the objective we set for ourselves is realistic, achievable and yet efficient. i hope for broad support.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not a very long process has come to an end. that's good news. there are some positive aspects to this. one is that, for example, the basic rights guarantee the right of information and access for people with disabilities. it is also positive that the compensation for smes is now at a reasonable level, which was not the case from the beginning. and it is positive, of course, that we have reached an agreement, because it could have been that we did not agree in the mediation process. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. i have to say something negative, because we have not reached a truly european solution. although we say that the mobility of people, goods and services is a european creed, we have no european solution in this area if three countries are not involved and some other countries do not have such long bus routes. the right of disabled people to have an accompanying person, which is often necessary to drive, is guaranteed only for long distances. and it is also the case that the force majeure clause, which does not apply in the air sector - the ash cloud had to be compensated - applies to buses and that therefore passengers with small wallets on short distances do not receive compensation, have no rights. this is not good. we therefore abstained in the conciliation procedure at the midnight session - there are positives and negatives - and we will do so again today.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i welcome the outcome of the conciliation procedure. the implementation of the regulation will now also ensure that, firstly, a high level of protection for all passengers, including people with reduced mobility, comparable to the standard of other modes of transport is achieved in the field of bus and coach transport; secondly, a high level of protection for consumers in general is ensured; and thirdly, the specific character of the transport sector is taken into account, since it is dominated by small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in all member states. bus services that benefit citizens in general must also provide a high quality service for disabled people and persons with reduced mobility. you should be entitled to help. in the interests of social integration, this should be free of charge.
i have to say, madam president, it is good that we now have passenger rights for all modes of transport, but even these rights cannot ignore the fact that the environmentally friendly railways are once again extremely disadvantaged here. the railway pays track charges for each kilometre, in bus transport there are no track charges an advantage for the bus. the railways are included in the emissions trading scheme, the buses are excluded - an advantage for the buses, a disadvantage for the railways. in the case of railway delays, 25% of the fare is refunded after one hour, here after two hours. all these advantages are unacceptable. that is why we need an integrated approach. we need passenger rights for all modes of transport, but also fair conditions. it is not possible that one will be compensated after three or five hours and the other after one hour. there's a lot of work to be done here. it was not a good compromise in that respect. why is the environmentally friendly railway system being permanently disadvantaged? i don't know what you're talking about.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the russian federation, despite a flawless constitution, is still not a state governed by the rule of law, and there is a great disparity between constitutional law and constitutional reality. the basic conditions for a functioning rule of law are, unfortunately, the absence of an independent judiciary and a free press. "the best russian food is in strasbourg", he sarcastically recommends. in fact, about one third of the cases brought before the european court of human rights come from russia. russian citizens have no confidence in their own courts and rarely get justice there. this is also reflected in the decline in the number of appeals. although president medvedev and prime minister putin are two lawyers at the head of the state who have repeatedly announced that they would fight legal nihilism, their words, followed by opposite actions, turn out to be more like legal cynicism. no court in russia dares to pass judgment without consulting the higher authorities. this telephonic justice system has created dependent judges who are more concerned with their own safety and well-being than with justice. this is also shown by the khodorkovsky case. a court official has just testified that judge danilkin's sentence was dictated from above. the repeated conviction of khodorkovsky and lebedev has left the russian state of law in the gulag. as in soviet times, the political leadership was the one who prejudged. so, directed democracy goes hand in hand with directed justice. although the russian judiciary is primarily a punitive state, it is a complete failure in the investigation, prosecution and conviction of politically motivated crimes. the attacks and killings of journalists have created a climate of fear and oppression. conditions in the penitentiary are also appalling. this is exemplified by the case of sergei magnitsky, a lawyer who exposed corruption and for this, in an unprecedented act of will, went to prison and died there in a cruel manner because of the lack of medical care. a modernisation agreement between the eu and russia will only succeed if it contains at its core a modernisation agreement between the russian leadership and its own people. this means respecting the constitutionally guaranteed civil rights and fulfilling the commitments made in the osce and the council of europe. russia needs to make the transition from a directed democracy to a development democracy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i regret that our debate today was put on the agenda so shortly that the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy cannot be here. catherine ashton has worked with the council over the past months to improve eu-internal coordination on cooperation with our strategic partners, including russia. in view of their efforts to achieve a coordinated position, i would have thought it sensible not to have this debate without them. no other strategic partner of the eu is as close to us as russia, both geographically and also in terms of historical experience. that is why we are taking a very active part in the developments in the internal market. i would like to refer specifically to the work programme drawn up jointly by the coordinators of the partnership for modernisation on the russian side and on our side. this joint work programme on modernisation contains important and correct approaches to actively support the development of the rule of law in russia. it is also the right way to bring real value to our partnership. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. with his initiative to modernise russia, the russian president has given his international partners the opportunity to work fruitfully with russia. so let's use them too! the commission has already made it clear that if modernisation is to be sustainable, it cannot be a question of pursuing technological modernisation alone. a modernised russian economy is built on sound principles of the rule of law. only when citizens and businesses can rely on the rule of law framework will they have the courage to innovate and invest. so let us reach out and help russia to achieve this modernization.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in addition to the broad areas of cooperation in the economic field, but also in the face of global challenges, i believe it is important - and this has been reflected here - that we keep the situation of the rule of law in russia on the agenda in our discussions. we have spoken a great deal in recent weeks about stability in the mediterranean region too, and we have defined what stability is not, namely authoritarian structures. but at the same time, it also means that stability for russia cannot be based on political influence on courts, on the persecution of journalists and people who work for human rights. so i think it is always a good time to talk about this. i hope that in the operational relations we will be establishing with russia in the near future, we can make it clear to russia that it is risking its own future if it does not allow its own rule of law to work.
madam president, i am sorry, i was not listening. ( the speaker agreed to take a question under the blue-card procedure (rule 149(8)).
madam president, i will vote for the resolution, yes.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to explain why the alde group abstained in large numbers on this directive: it's good that we have a choice and that the rights of people with disabilities are protected. but that's only true over longer distances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. for example, because this directive applies only from 250 kilometres, we have many countries which are really out of the question: cyprus, malta and luxembourg also have no rights, as do some other member states which have no bus lines over 250 kilometres. it is a core requirement of europe to have free movement of people, goods and services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's air transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. that is why we abstained. on the one hand, there are some positive aspects, but there are also many negative aspects, which is why we have abstained.
i have to say, madam president, i voted for the report because it is clearly an improvement on the present situation. we have been able to achieve a balanced solution which protects the rights of bus passengers and at the same time safeguards the existence of small and medium-sized operators. the scope of the regulation covers journeys of up to 250 kilometres, and bus passengers are now entitled to compensation for cancellation, overbooking or delay of more than two hours. bus operators in particular are often small and medium-sized enterprises which can put excessive claims for damages on the edge of their existence. we have succeeded in preventing the compensation from going to waste. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, the european parliament has been able to push through its ambitious long-term target to the council and commission of limiting the co2 emissions of small haulage vehicles to a maximum of 147 grams per kilometre by 2020. the ambitious but realistic threshold can be reached with innovative environmental technology. the vehicles will be much cleaner, but still affordable for the average user. this was particularly important to us, because it is not good for the climate at all if the price of new cars remains unaffordable and then the old cars continue to pollute our roads and thus, above all, our environment. i am glad that the motion was put to the vote today and that it was adopted by such a large majority.
in writing. - i have agreed to the agreement because it is a further logical step towards harmonized cooperation with the efta countries. as vice-president of the delegation, i am pleased that we are continuing on the path of privileged partnership.
in writing. − i have agreed to the agreement because these countries have no problems in quality and reliability and therefore pose no security risk to the eu.
in writing. - i have agreed to the agreement on liechtenstein's accession to schengen, as this is a logical step which poses no problems for us. the agreement is expected to run smoothly.
in writing. - i was pleased to approve the agreement on liechtenstein's accession to the eu asylum system. this will eliminate the possibility of multiple asylum applications in the eu and liechtenstein. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. at the same time as simplifying, it will achieve further harmonisation.
in writing. − this regulation is a step in the right direction as it creates an eu set of rights for bus passengers. however, except for some basic rights, it applies to regular services equal to, or longer than, 250 km. such a limited scope can hardly be a basis for truly european legislation in the interest of all bus passengers and alde cannot support such a deal. we also oppose the force majeure clause exempting carriers from the obligation to provide accommodation for passengers in case of cancellations or delays if these are caused by severe weather conditions or major natural disasters, as it can set a precedent for other eu passenger rights legislation. even though this is not a triumph, it is an improvement, especially for travellers with disabilities and reduced mobility. we managed to ensure non-discriminatory access conditions, disability-related training for the staff of carriers and terminal authorities who deal directly with passengers and compensation for damage or loss of mobility equipment on all routes, regardless of distance. keeping that in mind, and with a view of creating a harmonised eu set of rights for all passengers, we did not oppose the agreement and abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - i abstained today because i could not accept the compromise that was negotiated; the commission's proposal is too short - 147 grams as a long-term target is too low. but since the compromise is quick and allows the necessary innovation to take place so quickly, i did not vote against it. high environmental standards do not harm industry - on the contrary. only by setting ambitious targets can we create the pressure to innovate and keep our industry at the forefront of technology. the watered-down long-term goal in particular is proof to me that even after the legislation on co2 limits for cars two years ago, the car industry still hasn't learned that only clean cars will sell in the future. the car industry does not seem to trust its customers with this kind of common sense. instead of exploring new technologies, the car industry has used all available forces to fight the proposed regulations. it has exhausted all lines of defence and has shown no willingness to cooperate constructively. this is disappointing. we have also missed the opportunity to make it clear once again that we are not doing our industry any good by protecting it in this way. the future is calling, but we can't hear it. just yesterday, at the detroit motor show, vw unveiled its one-liter car. this shows that it can be done!
president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has today adopted a favourable opinion on the decision taken by the european council last december to make a limited amendment to article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. as you know, the aim is to enable the member states whose currency is the euro to create a permanent mechanism to ensure the financial stability of the euro area as a whole. this european stability mechanism will replace in 2013 the current temporary instruments of stability, the european financial stability facility and the european financial stability mechanism, which we all know are very useful. this is a decision which is essential to confirm our determination to defend our common currency and to guarantee financial stability in the face of the imbalance in the economies of certain member states, which must be corrected. this is a necessary mechanism to complete the treaty framework. that being the case, and as i myself stressed at the last european council, any initiative - including in the field of competitiveness and convergence of the european economy, and i say competitiveness and convergence because it is also about the convergence of our economies - any initiative, i said, must be made in compliance with the treaty and the principles and rules laid down for the union and its institutions. the commission will therefore take all necessary initiatives - legislative or otherwise - to ensure consistency between the future stability mechanism and the economic governance of the union within the euro area. the respect of the treaty is of course very important and i am reassured that the european council of 4 february last explicitly recognised this. the mechanisms for strengthening the competitiveness and convergence of the european economy of the 17 current members of the euro and of the 27 as a whole will be carried out in compliance with the treaties, that is to say with the competences of the union and its institutions, and in particular with the competences of parliament and the commission. the opinion which the commission has just adopted expressly states this. what we are talking about today is a matter of general european interest. it is clear that the safeguarding of the euro is not in the interest of the euro area member states alone. this is why member states outside the euro area can be associated, if they so wish, with the work on the establishment of the permanent mechanism. they may also decide, where appropriate, to participate in operations carried out under this future mechanism, as some have already done under the current temporary mechanisms. what we are talking about today is also our overall response to the crisis, of which the establishment of the future european stability mechanism is one of the key elements. we must move quickly and well on this issue. urgency does not mean haste and certainly does not preclude time for joint reflection. the decisions we are going to take in the coming weeks to learn from the crisis are fundamental decisions for our common future. we must therefore be very clear about the direction in which we want to go. we all agree that we must get on the reform bandwagon to preserve financial stability, increase the competitiveness and convergence of our economies and unlock the full potential for sustainable growth and job creation. it is now up to us to decide on the rails on which we are going to move this train, and i believe that the best way to move the train of europe forward is on community rails. the way in which we are going to set up the european stability mechanism will go a long way towards answering this question. as regards procedure, the commission considers that the conditions are met for a simplified revision of the treaty as provided for in article 48 (6) of the treaty on european union. i know that many of you are wondering about the largely intergovernmental nature of this permanent mechanism. we too would have preferred a more rapid progress, more firmly rooted in the union system. however, we recognize that this new step does not reduce the current competences of the union and its institutions. it increases our collective capacity to respond to challenges that were not explicitly foreseen in the treaty. i should like to stress here a few of the points of substance which have been highlighted in the commission's opinion. i believe they will help us to move towards a union which is more solidary, more responsible, more united and stronger. first of all, solidarity is needed. we are talking about a fundamental value of the european union and i want to be very specific about this. throughout the discussions on the draft limited amendment to the treaty, the commission recalled that in no case should this amendment affect the solidarity mechanisms provided for in article 122 of the treaty on the functioning of the union in the event of difficulties or serious threats of difficulties in a member state. therefore, contrary to the opinion of some, article 122 is not amended. solidarity in the union also means responsibility. there can be no solidarity in europe without responsibility, and of course no responsibility without solidarity. this applies in particular to solidarity and financial responsibility and is the whole spirit of the transitional stability mechanisms. it will also be the case for the permanent mechanism, whose conditions will be very strict. let us be very clear: all member states must respect a responsible financial policy. solidarity and responsibility within the european union can only be strengthened by greater coordination and better supervision. this is precisely the key lesson we have learned from the crisis. the economic governance of the union within the euro area will thus form the basis on which the future stability mechanism will necessarily have to be based. we need to strengthen european economic governance, that is to say, to broaden and deepen it in order to guarantee the stability of the euro area in particular and of the european union as a whole. expand economic governance to include not only fiscal policies but also economic policies and structural reforms. this is the whole purpose of the european semester process that we have agreed on. this process was launched with the presentation of the annual growth review prepared by the commission. this document says and shows clearly that the current policies are not enough. we must do more to meet today's challenges. do more together and not apart. do more to create more convergence and not to create new divergence. as far as deepening economic governance is concerned, this is the whole point of the package of six proposals which have been put forward by the commission and for which i know we will be able to count on strong support from parliament, and i thank you for that support. you can be sure that the commission will support and facilitate this process to its conclusion in the interest of an ambitious result. it is therefore precisely within this set of reforms that the future european stability mechanism is to be built and that the strengthening of the european financial stability fund must be built more immediately. i am convinced that our approach is the right one and that each of us has a role to play in this. the commission will take full responsibility for its own work and intends in particular to participate actively in the work on the establishment of the future european stability mechanism. now, it is not enough to have the right approach, it is also necessary to apply it. i believe that we will succeed in implementing our approach if we all follow a few simple and clear rules of conduct. i am thinking here of democratic legitimacy based on the control of the european parliament. i am also thinking of the strength we derive from permanent institutions, which act in a transparent manner and are common to all 27, thus also guaranteeing the coherence of the union as a whole. i am also thinking of the principle of equality of member states before the treaty and the principle of loyal cooperation, according to which actions decided by the member states cannot affect, alter or undermine the effectiveness of cooperation at european union level. we must ensure that no carriage falls off the track and the whole train is derailed. we need to invest more in confidence between member states and between member states and european institutions. we are a union and we must act as a union to emerge from the crisis and build a strong foundation for a more competitive, more prosperous, more stable, more inclusive europe. it is in this spirit that our actions must be, it is in this spirit that the commission has acted and will continue to act. i think i can say that we can count on your support in this.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are fully aware that we need a contractual arrangement to create legal certainty. this is a constitutional necessity in my own country, and that is why we are talking about a necessary treaty amendment to ensure that the stability of the euro is really secured in the long term. we could think of a number of other possibilities, going beyond a broader treaty amendment to include this fully in community policy, or to do so elsewhere within the relevant article with different wording. but on the other hand, we also see the danger that the simplified procedure will not be possible, that this will lead to referendums and that we will not be able to reach decisions in time, which will lead to the difficulties we will then feel in the financial markets. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. there must be no way - neither in the stability mechanism nor in the competitiveness pact - of undermining this community competence! the treaty has shortcomings which, unfortunately, due to the circumstances described, can only be remedied intergovernmentally. but there are also examples of member states agreeing common rules, for example in enhanced cooperation, but using the community institutions to do the job. this should be possible only in this context. this is particularly the case with the commission. it would be wrong to build parallel structures which are increasingly divergent and which in the long run cannot hold the community as a whole together. this must be avoided at all costs. i see the beginning of a split if we do not act responsibly and correctly in these weeks. it should also be made clear that the community method and the intergovernmental method do not have the same status. the intergovernmental method is an auxiliary method when the community method is not available for contractual reasons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means an avant-garde solution, but at the same time it means that we have clear legal structures, that the countries which are not now part of it have the certainty that they can be included if they meet the conditions, and that the equality of the small countries is guaranteed, especially since we also know that the community structures in the long term guarantee not only cohesion but also decision-making power. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have three areas: the stability and growth pact, where we have the normal legislation and also the community method. we now have the treaty amendment, which is in danger of breaking up, and the competitiveness pact certainly needs some further discussion. we want to show our responsibility as a parliament and also within our group. we know how important the date of 24 march is and we know how important the following monday is. i do not think we are seeking our ideal solution, but if we are showing responsibility, then the other institutions, particularly the council, should also show responsibility. we are proposing that the intergovernmental approach be accepted as a transitional solution, that this be linked to the responsibilities of the institutions, in particular the commission, in this matter, and that the council be available for discussions in the coming days. that is to say, we are prepared to hold talks on this subject in order to overcome the resentment we have here in the house, because small countries and non-euro countries feel disadvantaged because the competitiveness pact was launched in the way it was launched. all this makes business difficult. i would like to help us get a majority for this plan, and i would like to do it within the time frame. i hope that the council will give us the opportunity to bring this majority together in talks.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i think it is quite clear that the european parliament understands why the treaty amendment is being done under the simplified procedure. it's an emergency we've been dealing with. it is also clear that the european parliament does not think it is right that the way in which the crisis mechanism is being implemented should lead to the community method being abandoned in the future and the european parliament being left out, as is partly the european commission. i would like to offer one more explanation for our very critical attitude to the growing intergovernmentalism: i think that in europe at the moment fewer and fewer citizens understand what is actually being decided when on what situation. the germans are angry with the greeks, the greeks are angry with the germans. the irish think they're bailing out the german banks at their expense. this misunderstanding of the situation is due to the 'black box advice' method and the fact that decisions are always made on the last person to click. we must be more transparent about this, otherwise we will lose the citizens' trust faster and faster than we can even see. so if you want us to make ourselves small at this point in the simplified procedure, you should be prepared to strengthen parliament's role in the council and the commission as the representative of the citizens, as everyone promised before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it is not just you, mr barroso, but also the leaders of our countries who have campaigned for this treaty and for more democracy in europe. i want that to happen now. i am not going to go into detail about the commission's proposals. the beaches are to be privatised so that the debt can be serviced. we are also seeing the end of the way we have been dealing with the crisis. the total orientation towards a pure austerity policy, which of course comes very strongly from germany, is leading these deficit countries further into disaster. this is something that needs to be checked. the formulation of this crisis policy and the so-called solidarity policy must be discussed with us here. how else is there to be an understanding of what we have to do in this crisis anywhere in europe? i think we must prepare ourselves for solidarity with other countries in europe. the funds we have now are not enough. today in brussels it was decided to provide more liquidity. we'll have to talk about this again soon. we'll also have to talk about eurobonds. we have already heard mr verhofstadt give the correct reasoning. but we will also have to talk about how we want to shape revenue policy from here in the future. i'm sorry i was out of line. but we also need more room for this debate, so that we can get to the end of this and not always be on the defensive. (the president cut the speaker off)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the lisbon treaty has only been in existence for a short time. however, it is now being amended for the second time in a few months, on the pretext of urgency, and the amendment of the treaty is not being left to the democratic process laid down in the lisbon treaty. it's to be decided by expedited procedure. we have seen how the billions in bailouts for the banks have been passed over the parliaments in a hurry. the european council is now again pressed for time, and some heads of government want to bring about the new treaty change by the apparently tried and tested fast track. gue/ngl rejects such an approach, which threatens to become the norm, and calls for treaty amendments to be dealt with by the normal procedures required by the lisbon treaty including the convention .
president of the commission. - first of all, i thank you for your speeches, and i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr brok and mr gualtieri, in particular, for their remarks on the importance of the community method and their attention to what could be an intergovernmental drift. i can only thank them for this attention. in this particular case, let us be absolutely clear, the commission has supported this revision because we believe that it is a challenge, in a competence which was not provided for in the treaty. the treaty did not establish a permanent stability mechanism. the member states have therefore unanimously decided to create a mechanism and to do so on an intergovernmental basis instead. it was a unanimous decision of the member states. indeed, i'm not hiding from you and i've said it very clearly that i'll be with all those who want to go faster. intergovernmental action may be progress, but we prefer to move faster in a community-wide way. but we know that in the history of european integration there have been great steps for europe that started with intergovernmental initiatives, whether it be schengen or, for example, the area of freedom and justice. the question of political responsibility was therefore whether or not we should support something which, while not entirely in line with our preferences, namely the community method, nevertheless represents a strengthening of our collective capacity to respond to challenges which were not expressly provided for in the treaty. and our answer is yes, i think we should respond in the affirmative. the commission's opinion is therefore positive in relation to this reform of the treaty. but i say very openly that the commission prefers the community approach. this is the debate we had when we were preparing this decision. some wanted - and even proposed - to change article 122, to eliminate a jurisdiction which has existed since the treaties of rome. i myself have opposed it. i think it is therefore fair to say that this new competence can now be developed together, even if it does not fall strictly within the community method. but at the same time we are very clear in our opinion, and i quote: 'the commission will take all the initiatives, legislative or otherwise, to ensure that this future mechanism is consistent with the economic governance of the union, particularly within the euro area, in accordance with the powers conferred by the treaty on the union and its institutions.' it is an absolutely clear position and i would like to share that intention with you. some people in the debate spoke, for example, of opposition or differences between one member state and another, between the united kingdom and the euro zone. i normally do not like to make this distinction, but there are some differences, the main one being that the debt of the euro area is much lower than that of the united kingdom. the uk's debt is much higher than that of the euro area as a whole. that is why the problem that exists in the euro area - as some of you have pointed out - is really a problem of relative competitiveness. that is why we are now seeking a solution for competitiveness and convergence - and i emphasize convergence - in the union. even if some disagree, let's go in the direction of greater convergence in the euro zone and in the union for those who want to move forward because now it's not just the federalists or the integrationists who want more governance in the european union. it is the markets that demand this governance and this must be heard. today, markets are demanding not only a determination to defend the euro area, but also a clearer system of governance. and it is true that the community approach is normally more secure than an approach which is too often left to the whims of the leaders. (applause) it is in this sense that we are now working on other projects, in particular on the competitiveness and convergence project, but that will be another debate for another day. in any case, i think that the commission has taken the right position on this point: a clear, favourable opinion in favour of this limited revision of the treaty, while at the same time calling on everyone to pay greater attention to the need not to create mechanisms which, as mr elmar brok has said, could create divisions because it is the community institutions which can guarantee the union as a whole, because the commission, for its part, acts for the euro area and for the states which are not in the euro area. so let us be attentive to this aspect. let us not create now, for the sake of responding to urgent challenges, questions that could create for us greater problems in the future. let us ensure greater governance, while at the same time guaranteeing the union as a whole in the spirit that must of course be the spirit of the union: that of solidarity and responsibility.
mr president, mr president of the commission! the necessary and correct treaty amendment and the institutional debate we are having show that, after just over a year of the lisbon treaty, we are no longer able to solve the challenges that the world is presenting to us with the treaty as it stands. that is what today's debate shows. on the other hand, when we talk about today's treaty, we are met with opposition because of the situation in the member states - in particular in the united kingdom and the czech republic - and because it is unthinkable, if not hopeless, to have a wider discussion of the treaty. this is the real tension field we're moving in. we need more, but we can't get it from the nation states. the european parliament must give an answer! if we listen to the citizens today, they will sense that we need changes, including today in the treaty. you hear questions like 'how do we even manage the markets today?' 'that's why we need a strong europe. but we should ask ourselves a more important question: what does our european project mean at the end of the day? that's what peace-keeping has been for decades, to end war on our continent. i had a group of visitors from a school this morning. for young people, thank god, this is no longer an issue, war is no longer imaginable today, thank god. if we argue today, we are threatening globalization, we are arguing that we need europe to get a grip on this evil globalization - a negative argument. if we want to reach not only the minds but the hearts of the people, then we have to go a step further in asking what the project is carrying. we must then talk about the images and ask ourselves what this europe is, what the mission of this europe is. when the world powers are sitting together today -- america, japan, europe, brazil, india and so on -- who is going to raise their hand and ask, are we thinking enough about social issues? china's not going to do that, we have to do that. who will raise their hand and say, "we have to think about environmental issues"? that is not what the americans will do, it is what we will have to do. who will say "we want to maintain peace on this earth and not to fight conflicts with war"? we shall have to do so with our historical experience. if we look at tunisia, we see people there who say they want to have this model, as we live in europe, for themselves. we have a very attractive lifestyle. that is why, when we discuss treaty issues, when we talk about how our continent works and the task we have to do, we have to talk in big pictures so that we can reach not only the heads of people for this project, but the hearts of people. then we will be able to win back acceptance at the national level. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
firstly, it is true that the member states are the masters of the treaties, which is why the amendment must also be introduced at this level. secondly, there's a question in the room that resonates with a lot of the questions that i've tried to address: whether we're reflecting, whether we're taking enough time, whether we're having enough time to discuss everything intensively, or whether people's expectations are so high and the pressure of global challenges is so great that we have to move faster and act faster. that is why i would not see the time problem as a problem, but we must give answers. that's what we need to focus on.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a letter to you personally, mr president, and not to the chamber. amendments to contracts are always complicated, even simplified amendments to contracts. what we're discussing here shows that we're in an extremely difficult situation. the term 'simplified procedure' also misleads as to the fact that this simplified procedure may fail. it can fail here, but it can fail elsewhere. and we are told that if it fails, we are in an extremely difficult situation. so again, the question is: what can we do to make sure that it doesn't fail? but we are heard. the failure of not only this ratification process but also the euro project as a whole depends on the will of the heads of government to act in a coherent and united manner. a lot of good has been said about that. i would therefore like to add three considerations which are of fundamental importance. today, one year after the start of this serious crisis, i ask you: what is the external value of our currency today? it's only $1.35. when we introduced the euro, it was $1.17. now we're at $1.35. the value of an international currency is also measured by its external value. the external value of the euro has been massively stable for a year. what is not stable is the internal structure of the euro. it is not stable because the heads of state and government are soon to be unsurpassed in their ambiguity, in their duplicity. the problem is not that europe cannot act in unity. the instruments are there. the problem is that europe cannot agree on a common approach. and if we say that europe cannot agree, then we must say that we are not here. it is not the european parliament, it is not the commission, it is the governments of sovereign member states which have created a strong monetary area capable of acting externally, but which are not prepared internally to create the self-contained instruments needed to pursue a strong economic and social policy, or indeed a strong government policy, in parallel with a strong currency. that's the crucial point! secondly, everything that happens in europe happens within the framework of the treaties. but if it is done within the treaties and you do not want to create something arbitrarily outside the treaties - that is also the reason for the consideration of one or the other - then it is clear to us as the european parliament that the institution which is the central institution within the framework of the treaties, and that is the commission, must be at the centre. the commission is the only institution that can give democratic legitimacy to action at european level, namely in direct relation to the european parliament. that is why you are right in what you have said, and so are the rapporteurs brok and gualtieri. thirdly, the risk for europe is that if it acts as a single entity in the world's largest economy, with 500 million inhabitants, it is strong, but if it allows itself to be divided into its 27 individual parts, it becomes irrelevant. unfortunately, this has been seen in developments on the other side of the mediterranean. the european union is not a single entity. the single line: then europe, with its social and economic model, is the engine of the world economy and an influential partner in international politics. what we are discussing here in this simplified procedure is the question of whether europe has a future or whether it is going to sink into insignificance and irrelevance as a single state. that is the point we are discussing here.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the participants in the debate and the members of the european parliament for their clear support for a communitarian approach, for a strong european union and for an appropriate role in the future mechanism which we are discussing today. our opinion was very clear, which is that we fully support the creation of the european stabilisation mechanism and see it as a very important part of the mosaic for a stronger and more economically prosperous europe. we are working on increased supervision of financial markets, on better economic governance, with our six legislative proposals on the table. we started the first european semester with our annual growth survey, and this should be the last piece of the puzzle. i also think that with this and with our debate today, and what i believe will be a positive decision in march, we are sending very clear signals to all those who are betting against the euro. if you bet against the euro, you will lose your money. that is a very important message to send out. therefore, the decision on this issue will be absolutely crucial, but i know that for this house it is also very important that we respect fully the competences of the union, we respect fully the prerogatives and role of the union’s institutions. of course, the commission will definitely see to it that european law is always respected. as we stated in our opinion, the commission also stands ready to use its expertise in handling these mechanisms, because i believe that they should be in full coherence with improved economic governance, especially as regards the coordination and surveillance of economic and financial policies in the member states, in particular those of the euro zone. some of you have been concerned that we should not create a two-tier europe. i think that the commission’s position on this is also very clear: even though the primary responsibility for the euro currency remains with the euro zone member states, it is very clear that any future cooperation mechanism must be open to others and that all the work we are doing to increase competitiveness and convergence must be for all 27 member states. so i believe that the process which we are going through, and in which financial markets also played a role in accelerating our integration, in accelerating our cooperation in the field of economic governance, should be very much welcomed, because it is definitely making our union stronger. i would like to thank particularly the two rapporteurs, mr brok and mr gualtieri, for their close cooperation, for the ideas which have been brought to the table and for the consultations which the commission has with the two rapporteurs on an ongoing basis. i believe that their good work will lead to a report which will be approved by this house in time, before the decision of the european council is taken. my last remark is to mr higgins from ireland. he very correctly pointed to the quote from commissioner rehn, stating that the agreement was struck with ireland – not with the government but with ireland as a country. of course, we expect that any future government would respect the deal. having said that, it is very clear and it is very obvious that the commission is very sympathetic to the current difficulties that ireland is going through and will do its utmost to support a swift return to growth in ireland. the european institutions – be it the european union, the commission, or the european central bank, or indeed the imf – have contributed a lot to stabilising the situation in ireland. i am sure that all together we will do our utmost to bring back growth and prosperity to ireland as well.
the agenda calls into question the situation of the common european asylum system following the recent decision of the european court of human rights.
member of the commission. − mr president, the european court of human rights ruling of 21 january on the case of m.s.s. versus greece and belgium clearly showed that the eu urgently needs to establish a common european asylum system and that we need to support member states in meeting their obligation to provide adequate international protection. the commission has always said that in the application of the eu acquis – and the dublin regulation is an important element of the current eu acquis on asylum – member states are never discharged of the obligation to ensure the protection of fundamental rights. the european court of justice recalled that principle in its judgment. the judgment does not affect the underlying principles of the functioning of the dublin system: to have a clear system to identify which member state is responsible, to examine an asylum application, to guarantee effective access to the procedures of determining refugee status, and to prevent abuse of asylum procedures in the form of multiple applications. however, the evaluation of the dublin system made by the commission has shown that there is room for improvement. already in 2008, the commission proposed a revised dublin regulation to address the identified gaps. it aimed to increase both the standards of protection for the asylum applicants concerned, as well as the level of efficiency of the dublin system for the benefit of the member states. i welcome the european parliament’s strong support for the commission proposals and i invite the council and the european parliament to work together for a balanced compromise leading to an improved dublin 2 regulation. such a compromise must also include an emergency mechanism for suspension of transfers in situations of exceptional and particular pressure on the asylum system as a matter of last resort. it would provide a common, comprehensive solution to cases which today are treated in a discretionary manner in order to build more trust and a genuine support between the dublin partners. the commission has been aware of the deficiencies of the greek asylum system, which is confronted with exceptional pressure due to high numbers of mixed migration flows on its territory and the lack of a proper functioning national asylum system. we have already taken steps to review them. the commission initiated infringement proceedings against greece in november 2009, setting out concerns about various provisions of eu law. greece itself has committed to reforming its asylum system, based on an action plan submitted to the commission in august last year setting out immediate and long-term measures. since then, important legislative developments have taken place in greece. at the same time, the commission is engaged in substantial efforts towards assisting greece, together with the member states, the unhcr and eu agencies. this support combines significant financial and practical assistance for the reform of the national asylum system, border and return management, and more efficient use of the eu funds for migration management and also better cooperation with neighbouring countries, in particular turkey. let me finish by recalling that our union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. asylum is one of the human rights which the european union is committed to respecting and promoting. the commission is firmly committed to working towards a fair, efficient and protection-oriented common european asylum system. that is the best way to jointly uphold human rights as one of the important pillars of the area of freedom, justice and security.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the refugee policy is topical, as we are now seeing in lampedusa, as we have seen in greece. and it moves people in europe. first of all, we can be proud of what europe has developed here, that we have developed common standards on how to handle a procedure properly, how to deal with children, how to deal with families - we should be proud of that. europe is a space that offers help and partnership to the persecuted on this earth. the decisive factor is not the paper we put down in the committees of parliament, the commission and the council, but what people actually do. we have seen that belgium and greece have been condemned by court judgments for their apparent failure to implement and comply with the existing legislation. that's why we have to say that the execution is not working. i would ask the commission to move more quickly in addition to the present action plans. that we are able to push through and implement the standards we care about in the european union more quickly. in the case of greece, i would like to point out that we have a border that can be secured from two sides. i am already disappointed in turkey's behaviour as a partner here. we have concluded a readmission agreement with turkey, which god knows does not include what turkey would have to do if it were a member of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. solidarity is undeniable. we want to help with the european refugee fund and frontex, with concrete practical help, both in the case of greece - it is already being done there - and in the case of lampedusa/italy. european solidarity is not in question. and now it's more demanding than ever.
the commission has already done so. we are talking today about the judgment of the european court of human rights. in the end, this is belgium, but it concerns every member state within the european union. germany has also decided not to return asylum seekers to greece. we must ask ourselves - as the honourable member has said - whether we want to build walls around europe or whether we want to continue to have and to shape the right to asylum, which i, as a liberal, very clearly support. but it also means that we must give every asylum seeker the chance to have a proper and proper process. it is not a matter of solidarity, let alone acceptance, for the southern countries to bear the whole burden alone. because of their geographical location, these countries are facing increased pressure - again in lampedusa at the moment, due to the events in tunisia. but this is a permanent condition that the local asylum authorities cannot tolerate. germany too experienced a huge upsurge a few weeks ago when there were liberalisations in relation to kosovo. we also had the problem that we could not immediately carry out all the procedures properly. so if we really want to have this right to asylum, we must in future come to a transformation of solidarity. dublin ii cannot continue in this form.
the commission has already done so. the fact is, we certainly don't need a wall on the asylum issue. it was suggested to draw a wall that's why i volunteered. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we are concerned with the protection of fundamental rights and human rights. if someone is fleeing a country and seeking asylum with us - for whatever reason - if someone voluntarily gets into a boat full of people and risks his life, it is certainly not something we can say: 'we want to push these people away from the start'. we need to have reasonable asylum procedures for these people, which must be properly run, and we cannot leave the southern european countries to which they arrive alone. i agree with mrs deersh on this point. it is also wrong to say from another point of view: 'we want to leave them all outside and not take them in.' we have a demographic change, we need integration in the future and certainly asylum seekers who want to stay with us. it is not only a question of humanity, but also a question of reason in europe. so we need solutions in this case soon.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what is missing is the concern for the refugees who are crossing the mediterranean. if we are serious about our own principles of refugee protection, we must first ensure and assess on a case-by-case basis the situation they are in and guarantee them the protection of their human rights. we must not allow people to be turned away and borders to be closed. it is often mentioned how the frontex border guard agency can help in this situation. it could be if it puts the protection and rescue of refugees at the centre of its actions. the rejection of refugee boats, as we have seen in the past, must not happen. we are currently working in parliament on the new mandate for frontex and it is to be hoped that it will succeed in achieving concrete improvements with more transparency and concrete guidelines for the fulfilment of its tasks in accordance with human rights. of course, we must also help tunisia to rebuild its economy quickly so that people can have confidence that they will have a chance of making a living in their own country. we must enable tunisia to achieve rapid positive economic development through trade with the eu, through the promotion of projects - one of the main requirements of the democratic transformation in tunisia. it is completely incomprehensible that, for the first time, many eu member states are leaving the mediterranean countries to their own devices with unpredictable movements of refugees. the call for volunteers to help islands such as lampedusa or malta is being ignored. we must reach an agreement here that states in the interior and north of the eu should also take in refugees. the infrastructure is there, but the political will and the concrete solidarity are lacking.
the commission has already done so. we were all excited, and the general public was delighted by the revolution in egypt and tunisia and that values like freedom and democracy were on the agenda. these images have dominated the last few days. however, for the last two or three days, the images of floods of refugees, of people in boats, have dominated the news on television and in the newspapers. we need to act quickly so that we don't end up missing this historic moment and just have the images of refugees hanging there, but that we really remember what these countries have achieved. what we also need to convey to the general public is that while many people are coming now, a large proportion of those people will go back because they do not have the right to asylum in our sense. we must also, of course, address the question of economic refugees, which is frequently asked here. one thing is clear: if these young people have no prospects, they will come back. maybe not the same, but different. that is why we must deal with this issue in detail.
i have to say, madam president, it is gratifying that an own-initiative report is not hidden away on a monday and is dealt with in a few minutes. the reason: 463 amendments in the committee on employment, 211 in the associated economic and monetary committee. i would have liked to have been given a commitment to continue the successful occupational pension systems in germany, luxembourg, finland and austria. unfortunately, it was decided by a majority to recommend new minimum standards and the application of solvency ii to occupational pensions. as a result, the risk of significantly higher costs - up to 40% in germany alone - arises for voluntarily paid occupational pensions. what has been created by the social partners in consensus must not be destroyed. i was able to contribute to the compromise, for example by deciding that in future all the effects of minimum standards and solvency ii will have to be examined in detail by means of a detailed impact assessment. this is progress, but it is not a guarantee that the old age pension will continue. the positive is that we do not have a uniform definition of the adequacy of pension payments. the commission is also opposed to a single retirement age for the eu. chancellor merkel and president sarkozy are right to advocate a gradual approximation of pension systems and retirement ages. as birth rates and life expectancy vary, each national pension system needs to be adapted to demographic trends. the compromise was reached under great time pressure. i hope that we will all debate the white paper in greater detail and incorporate experience from the workplace. the voluntary occupational pensions alone are worth more than the current eu rescue package. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
i have to say, madam president, we have had two reports from two committees. it recommends the application of solvency ii to occupational pension schemes. from my point of view, this cannot work. in countries like france, this is the experience, but not in other member states of the european union. we should really look into the matter in detail. we have this opportunity when we think about the white paper and talk about it at length, and then really convince everyone of it, because many people cannot have the experience, they do not know it in their member states yet. so we can very well work on each other.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the wealth of a country is the value that people create with their work. social work must be included more in future. people want to be properly and safely cared for in old age. the crisis has shown that only public and state pensions are reliable and stable. on the other hand, corporate and private provisioning have been sunk into the risks of the stock market by the millions. it would be absurd to want to put people's pensions even more heavily into private and capital-backed systems. the people have financed the bailout of the big banks. they are also paying for a brutal austerity policy in the european union. now they are also supposed to reform the households with pension cuts and a higher retirement age! the pension reforms introduced so far are already leading to increasing poverty among the elderly. the only way to do this is to strengthen secure public pension systems.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the pension must be sufficient to support the whole of europe. a key prerequisite for this is that people have decent jobs, because cheap jobs lead to old age poverty and low pensions. if there are people in this house who think that people can simply take out supplementary private insurance for their old age, i have to say that many people can hardly live on the money they earn, let alone pay for supplementary private pension insurance. the first pillar of the pension is therefore of particular importance. the solidarity system financed by contributions must be the foundation of european pensions and must be able to make a living from it. we cannot say 'that is a matter for the member states'. the message must be sent from here: we need pensions that people can live on. my colleague thomas mann has dealt in great detail with the german occupational pension system. i would like to do the same without going into detail here. i come to the same conclusion in my assessment of the green paper. that is why we have worked together on the proposals in the committee. i therefore ask the commission to ensure that whatever is done in the future, national specificities - what is really going well and what is vital for the survival of pension systems in the member states - are not left out of the picture.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i ask whether it makes sense to respond to this debate and to this report with a white paper and not to solve the really urgent problems instead. in my view, there are two: firstly, the fact that the actual retirement age and the statutory retirement age are massively different, i.e. that anti-discrimination measures really need to be put in place - through commission action, through commission control, to improve this, because that is what makes pensions sustainable. secondly, the report clearly calls for action to be taken now on the portability of occupational pensions, i.e. to consider the new directive. this is much more urgent because here mobile workers are losing a lot of money in their pensions, which would ensure them a secure life in old age. that is why steps are necessary here. the white paper is a waste of time.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's a nightmare: someone is sick, someone is desperate, someone gets medication, and then those medications don't work, they're ineffective because they're fake. we are grateful to the commission for coming forward with this proposal. it's true, we've been discussing this for some time. we started the discussions in the last parliamentary term and i would like to thank mr adamou, who is no longer a member of this parliament, for the preparatory work he did for mrs matias. i think we have a good compromise here. mrs grossetête said it. sure, it could have gone further. we're all impatient, we want to be more secure. but it's a good compromise. what have we achieved? we have achieved that the safety of patients is at the heart of the legislation. what security have we achieved? we have ensured that the traceability of the entire distribution chain is guaranteed. from the manufacturer to the pharmacy, the drug is traceable. with an identity feature that immediately makes it clear whether it is a fake or a duplicate, whether there is an irregularity that can then be investigated. we have also done it deliberately in a way that the cost of this system is bearable for all involved and that there is no excess, but still the safety of the patients is not compromised. this traceability is also accompanied by the fact that the package must be intact, that the patient receiving a package also sees that the package is unopened because of a seal. there are no more packages being cut up, as we have seen time and again. all of this is for the safety and confidence of patients. what else have we accomplished? we've also achieved an early warning system. it's wonderful that we have the same thing here that we've taken for granted in food for decades. there is an early warning system for food that is contaminated throughout the european union. it's not like that hasn't been done before for drugs! now, if a counterfeit drug is discovered, there's an early warning system. the member states must find the patient concerned, they must inform everyone, they must ensure that the risks associated with a medicinal product in circulation are made public. what is taken for granted in cars and food has not been taken for granted in something as vital as medicine! the internet: anyone who goes to an illegal website needs to be able to see that. we have to certify the websites, and in future they will be linked to a website of the national licensing authority. they will have a logo that the european commission will develop. anyone who buys medicines online can do so on their own responsibility. it can see if it's a safe and legal website or an illegal website. all of this together is a milestone, a quantum leap in patient safety. if we pass this legislation tomorrow, we can be proud of it and we should also make that clear to the public.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. europe is rightly considered the place with the greatest pharmaceutical safety in the world. the legislation we have been discussing for a long time - i think two years - is a service to this security. i would like to thank mrs matias very much for taking on a report of such complexity as a new member of parliament. this was a mammoth task respect! and most importantly it was a lot of teamwork thank you for this! we did a really good job. but we must also remember that one cannot regulate one hundred percent safety. that doesn't work anywhere, not even in pharmaceutical safety. we have rightly focused on the essentials, on the distinctiveness of packaging, on traceability in the supply chain. we have also made a good distinction between prescription and non-prescription medicines, because we must always bear in mind that any legislation, any making of products safer, naturally also costs money. it is therefore perhaps responsible that not every aspirin bottle or every non-prescription medicine is automatically included from the outset, but that the commission or the agency has the task of monitoring the market and monitoring developments. so i think we can be proud of what we've done here, we're creating legislation here that brings real benefits, but most patients probably don't even know that they're due to eu legislation, and that's why we should say it out loud!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs marisa matias. but i also thank mrs grossetête, the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, and mrs roth-behrendt. the two of them have already done important preparatory work for this directive in the last parliament. it is indeed a growing problem. the number of cases that stand out reached 7.5 million in 2009, a multiple of the previous years. and these are just the ones we find. there's a high unknown number, so you have to really assume that it's a big problem. if lifestyle drugs simply don't contain a substance, that's extremely annoying, but if life-saving drugs, for example, to treat cancer, don't contain a substance, or contain the wrong substance or the wrong dosage, that's life-threatening for the patient. that is why it was urgent that we act here. we have been very careful. the issue of data protection was very sensitive, and we found the right balance. we're risk-oriented because we're focused on prescription drugs first. there is an opt-out if there is a reasonable assumption that there is no danger. for non-prescription medicines, there is an opt-in if there is a reasonable suspicion that it is a counterfeit medicinal product. this is a very good compromise, and i would like to congratulate all those who have contributed to it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs who have done an excellent job. we had a very controversial discussion about this issue at the beginning. but perhaps the results of the medi-fake action in december 2008 have had an effect, with 34 million counterfeit tablets found at the external borders of the european union in two months. it was a warning and it accelerated our work. so we now have a result that you can actually be satisfied with. traceability is assured. every pharmacist can use his scanner to immediately detect whether the product has been smuggled in or whether it is genuine. but i would like to ask one thing: when selling online - sure, the sites are now controlled and they have a logo, but that too can be faked - publicity is necessary to educate citizens about the dangers of online trading. i am also very pleased that parallel trade has been preserved. he has a worse reputation than he deserves. it's secure. one final note. we should perhaps consider - for the sake of public safety and understanding - that the problem of the very different pack sizes in the various countries should be tackled in order to achieve uniformity.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for inviting me to speak on albania this evening. although on the european mainland, albania was isolated for a large part of the 20th century. however, albania is now open and accessible. it has become a country with a european perspective. today, albania is in political crisis. the developments in tirana on friday, 21 january 2011 were tragic. the increasingly bitter political stalemate has resulted in four needless deaths. the tone in tirana needs to change. the dangerous downward spiral must end. the political crisis must be resolved. this is the shared responsibility of the political leaders in albania. that is what the citizens of albania expect, and they are right. democratically elected representatives must act as such: represent the people and find democratic compromise. if the solution to the crisis lies in domestic hands, we as outsiders must do all we can to help facilitate such a solution. the external action service managing director, miroslav lajčák, visited tirana twice to meet the president, the prime minister and the leader of the opposition, and i am happy he has joined me today. his messages on behalf of the high representative and vice-president of the commission, cathy ashton, and myself were clear: first, stop the violence and investigate the events of 21 january correctly. these investigations should be conducted by the judicial authorities without political interference. second, stop the verbal abuse and the implicit and explicit undermining of state institutions. third, get the political dialogue back on track: acknowledge that you have a shared responsibility to secure a more positive future for albania. in the near future, this means jointly ensuring the conduct of free, fair and transparent local elections. fourth, begin the important task of implementing the 12 priorities outlined in the 2010 commission opinion. the government and opposition must do it together. the reactions of the political leaders and the general public to miroslav lajčák’s visit were encouraging and positive respectively. there is some momentum which can and should be used to turn the crisis into opportunity. the two albanian leaders welcome the attention given to them, but they are stuck in their own internal impasse, and european union goodwill and assistance cannot replace dialogue between the leaders. we can help to bridge the gap through our active engagement. however, we cannot do so before both sides signal a genuine willingness to put the european future of albania above party politics and personal mistrust. there is no place for cherry-picking. albania must meet all the copenhagen criteria, including interactive political dialogue and a functioning parliament – or nothing. the following is on the table for albania: an eu perspective in line with the council conclusions and based on the copenhagen criteria; a clear identification in the 2010 commission opinion of the 12 priorities whose effective implementation would enable albania to begin accession negotiations with the european union. these 12 priorities include, among others, improving the functioning of democratic institutions and the political dialogue, the rule of law and reform of the judiciary, the fight against organised crime and the protection of human rights. these 12 priorities and the copenhagen criteria are not just an exercise for politicians. rather, they bring clear, measurable benefits for citizens. albania’s politicians urgently need to put the interests of albania’s citizens first. let us turn these priorities into a european framework to address the current political challenges in albania. for this reason, i sent a letter to prime minister berisha one week before the january demonstrations, in which i set out a road map based on these 12 priorities, to help albania emerge from the current impasse. we all witnessed the tragic events that ensued. it is not too late. if we receive irreversible signals that there is a mutual willingness to use this european framework to gradually overcome the political stalemate and the recent crisis, then we will respond positively. the european parliament also has a vital role to play. you as politicians can send a clear message to politicians. a clear united message from this house and the whole european union with the readiness to engage would make all in albania reflect upon the best course of action. let me use this opportunity to call on the prime minister of albania, mr berisha, to create a truly inclusive political environment in albania. other political forces and civil society organisations would benefit from european integration. let me also call on the leaders of the socialist party, mr rama, to ensure that his party is a truly constructive opposition – one which enjoys the benefits but also the responsibilities of this inclusive political environment we wish to see in albania.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, thank you for your clear words. i think this came in. i believe that democratic development and the rule of law are essential for albania to begin the process of joining the eu. this includes the functioning and use of democratic institutions. parliament is the place where the democratic debate must take place. that is why you have been sent to parliament by the citizens. the road cannot replace this forum, and certainly not in the way mr rama tried to do it on 21 january. i call on the socialist party to cooperate fully in parliament and to develop political alternatives there. it's time to stop questioning the election results. take responsibility as the opposition in parliament. i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to make concrete proposals for the future in the parliamentary committee of inquiry. there are also osce and odihr recommendations to improve the electoral environment. it is important that the socialists cooperate in this too. i understand that mr rama has also promised here in strasbourg to take part in the local elections on 8 may. i appreciate that. i hope that this assurance was given without conditions or back doors. it is clear that mr rama is listening to the good advice he is receiving from his socialist comrades, but also in discussions with other groups in this house. i can assure you that many in our group are also active in albania in our sense and in that respect support this inclusive approach that the commissioner has mentioned. in this way we have contributed together to albania's future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what we are talking about today did not begin on 21 january. so we have to ask ourselves, and i'm asking you: why did the commission and other international actors not put out the fire when it started to flare up, in mid-2009? the 2009 elections were the best ever, and they were based on an electoral law that you hear and marvel was passed by the socialists and the democrats who are fighting today, together in consensus it's a novelty in albania that you do something in consensus! i mean, this is important. all the socialist election committees at the time, the odihr, the election observers, we ourselves, called the election correct. the subsequent formation of a government was also a novelty in albania. two people who can't smell each other have gotten together! the democratic party on the one hand and the smaller social democratic party on the other. there were two hostile brothers who came together, and they joined together to bring albania forward, to bring it forward. the country is in nato, it now has the visa regime, unfortunately it is still denied the candidate status. but it was only at this moment, when this government was formed, that the opposition realized that these elections were not in order and demanded the opening of the ballot boxes. what government can open ballot boxes? not in my country, not in yours! you have to go to the constitutional court, or you have to go to the electoral commission. the protests we have seen, the hunger strikes, the refusal to cooperate with important legislation in parliament, that is simply not possible! you have to say that. and that's what you have to say about the name. you can't always put everything on the same level. i would ask that you also say once where the most important, the most difficult points really are. the accusations that have been made recently and from the beginning have concerned the opening of the ballot box. it can't be because the constitution doesn't say so. how can you negotiate if you can't negotiate? and now it's escalated. we have four dead. it is good that you have tried to present a roadmap today - i am exaggerating a little. i would very much like, above all, for mr lajčák and you, mr füle, to use this road map to pave the way for a better future for the people of this country.
author. − mr president, today 1.5 billion people are currently without access to electricity, but access to energy is a prerequisite for the eradication of the poverty that these people live in. the right to energy implies that energy supplies achieve universal and reliable access: equitable access that bridges the gap between urban and rural areas and is also affordable. it is also crucial for a country to develop a sustainable and secure energy supply, and the most reliable and secure one is a decentralised use of renewables. but energy does not only need to be secure and reliable; its production also needs to take into account other issues such as climate change, deforestation, environmental degradation, human health, and the poverty it causes. these problems cannot be tackled by fossil fuels. fossil fuels have a disastrous impact on health, environment and climate. at the same time, the climate crisis is doing more damage to those living in extreme poverty. fossil fuels create pollution that endangers both human health and a healthy environment, and they are expensive and their prices increase the more we run out of oil and gas. fossil fuels create centralised, hierarchic and inflexible energy distribution. we have to focus on renewables. we have to assist developing countries to leapfrog our destructive fossil fuel path. only renewables can bring a solution to these problems. renewable energy uses resources that will never run out and that many developing countries have in abundance: sun and wind mainly. they can be employed locally on a very small and inexpensive scale, which is also in a very literal sense empowering people. decentralised power supplies are in the hands of the people. they are democratic. nevertheless, the world bank continues to push fossils in its energy strategy. recent increases in lending for renewable and energy sufficiency remain tiny and cannot cover up the obvious preferences. fossil fuel investments are also taking place through financial intermediaries which the world bank does not sufficiently monitor. there is an under-reporting of fossil fuels. the bank continues to make significant investment in coal-fired power plants, locking developing countries into coal-based energy for decades to come. this is not what an energy revolution looks like. the world bank’s energy policy suffers from a lack of transparency. this problem should be addressed through the definition of clear requirements that financial intermediaries must meet in order to be eligible for multilateral financing. 40% of world bank loans to the private sector are transferred through those financial intermediaries and a large part of those loans goes to the energy sector, in particular extractives. however, unlike direct bank project investments, there is no information publicly available on these individual sub-project investments, making it very difficult to track what ultimately happens to financial intermediaries’ funding. when we look at what sort of energy is counted as low-carbon, we can find large hydropower plants in the strategy. such large hydroplants destroy vast amounts of nature and drive people from their homes. this is not sustainable and this is not in the interests of the people and of society. also carbon capture and storage do not make coal power low-carbon. the co2 is still there and nobody can predict what will happen to it underground. none of us can say for sure that it will stay there, calmly for the next millennia. this is fortune telling and not research and certainly not policy making. the same goes for nuclear energy. uranium mining produces huge amounts of co2 and nobody knows what to do with the waste we are producing. this is not low-carbon and this is not sustainable. this is why the green/efa group will vote against the resolution unless the low-carbon wording is replaced. however, we also see some good points in the resolution: for example, the focus on off-grid renewables for rural areas and small-scale local production, as well as the concern about the dominance of export orientation, large-scale plants and bio fuels. a last word: we also very much focus on the call for enhanced technology transfer. in particular, technology transfer will not need much if intellectual property rights are left intact. the overriding goal should be to treat intellectual property rights in a manner that allows access to technology at affordable prices. this is what we promised at the climate negotiations, and we should stick to our promise. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
author. − mr president, indeed we have been discussing these issues for more than two decades, and i really hope that the world bank will learn from these discussions since everybody agrees that the future lies with renewables. we have seen a slight change in this strategy. for instance, it has moved a bit more towards renewables, but this is a little step and not enough by far. there is still too much dominance of fossils and, when it comes to renewables, too much focus on hydropower plants – and they are not renewable, they are not sustainable, not for anybody. so i hope that this parliament can make a strong statement on where we want the european energy policy and the policy that we promote for energy in the world to go. i hope for your support to remove the wording on low carbon and go for proper, sustainable, renewable energy.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on croatia, mr hannes swoboda, and express my appreciation for his fair and balanced report. it acknowledges the impressive progress achieved by croatia in meeting the criteria for accession, while recognising the efforts that are still necessary to conclude the negotiations. the european union and croatia have provisionally closed 28 of the 35 negotiating chapters. the ministerial accession conference of 19 april should be able to provisionally close additional chapters where croatia has either fulfilled, or is very close to fulfilling, the closing benchmarks. as noted by the december 2010 general affairs council, the conclusion of negotiations is within reach. as with all negotiations, the most difficult issues remain to be tackled in the final phase. as minister martonyi has just underlined, the hungarian presidency announced earlier its goal to finish negotiations in the first half of 2011, if all criteria and benchmarks are fulfilled. this is an ambitious goal which can only be achieved if croatia continues to make an exceptional effort to fulfil the remaining requirements in time. the main outstanding challenges are the closing benchmarks for chapter 23: judiciary and fundamental rights and chapter 8: competition policy. croatia has been working hard in both areas, but now is the time to go the final mile. as regards the judiciary and fundamental rights, the main areas where croatia is called upon to deliver on its commitments are: establishing a credible and sustainable track-record in the fight against corruption; strengthening the independence, accountability, impartiality and professionalism of the judiciary; addressing the issue of impunity for war crimes; meeting targets in the housing care programme for refugees and improving the implementation of minority rights. full cooperation with icty remains a requirement. in each of these areas, there are clear benchmarks to be met. the commission is currently taking stock of the progress achieved by croatia for each of the benchmarks, on which we will report in our upcoming interim report on this chapter due by the middle of march. i had a very useful and constructive meeting with prime minister kosor yesterday. we discussed the importance of maintaining the momentum of the accession negotiations and of tackling the remaining outstanding issues. the croatian authorities are well aware of what they still need to do. indeed, i was very pleased to be reassured of the prime minister’s personal commitment to ensuring that the work continues at full speed until the european union accession process can be concluded. i could not agree more with those who call on the european union neither to make ‘special discounts’ nor to impose artificial hurdles on croatia. the principles of full respect for the conditionality that applies to the candidate countries, and full respect for the commitments that the european union has made, remain the cornerstones of the enlargement process. this is the essence of its credibility. the commission will continue to give its full support to croatia, which is working hard to achieve its goal of accession to the european union. i am sure, and here i am following the line of minister martonyi, that the member states will decide that accession negotiations can be concluded as soon as we can ascertain that the remaining closing benchmarks have been met. i am equally sure that, when parliament is requested to give its consent on the draft accession treaty, it will play this critical role in accordance with the very constructive approach that it has shown with regard to croatia’s accession process. along with your rapporteur, mr swoboda, i firmly believe that the citizens of croatia, after being called upon to endorse their country’s accession to the european union, will be able to vote for their representatives in the next elections to the european parliament.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. dear colleagues, i have to admit, i'm very moved today. because this year marks 20 years since the democratic movement in slovenia and croatia was consolidated, it was one year old, people were celebrating as in hungary, as in the czech republic and elsewhere. then came the brutal raid by the yugoslav people's army on june 28, 1991. at the time, everything seemed to be reversed. i was there when the flourishing little europe was destroyed by vukovar and hundreds of thousands of people lost their homes and thousands lost their lives. since then, i have been able to accompany croatia on its way to the european union. it must be made clear that croatia has made enormous efforts to get on this path. the commissioner has spoken the decisive word today. he spoke of fairness. the swoboda report could be headlined 'fairness for croatia'. that's what this is about. not for any privileges or discounts - that was rightly said - but for fairness. croatia is now ready to join the european union. there are still some final efforts to be made in the coming months. but we must not put up artificial barriers to this country, as has unfortunately been the case over and over again in recent years. croatia is part of a historical and cultural context with slovenia and hungary. it should have been accepted into the european union together with these central european countries - croatia is also a deeply central european country. this has not happened on the basis of a wealth of facts. but now the time has come. that's why we're pushing. we're not putting data in, we're sticking to our line that criteria are above data. but we insist that no artificial barriers be erected and that this country be treated fairly and justly.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to join those who have thanked mr swoboda for the good cooperation last year and, for the first time, this year. i agree with mr posselt that it is a fair report. we very much look forward to welcoming croatia – as has been said – as soon as it has met all the criteria. it is a special country to be joining, and the eu will have a special responsibility to make sure afterwards that all the other countries in the western balkans will be able to join too. it is from that regional perspective that croatia needs to be the best in the class now, so that its fellow classmates can join afterwards. we have a responsibility to the other countries, because if we fail now and make mistakes now it will be much harder for others to join. we cannot give up on this objective for the western balkans. some of you have mentioned chapter 23 on corruption. we believe that the eu also has to be honest about itself, and really to consider to what extent it was also implicated in corruption. therefore, we also call on olaf to look at what the implications are for the eu. i urge all groups to join that effort, as we need to be honest with ourselves too. my last point is that how we deal with the past is an important part of joining the eu. the icty has been mentioned. this is crucial, but we also feel that the local war crimes tribunals need to work better. a report by amnesty international highlights that there are still a number of pitfalls and deficiencies. we feel there is room for improvement, for example on witness protection, and we would like to see improvement there as well. we feel it is crucial for the eu to insist on that aspect of the past and working with the past. apart from this, we are all looking forward to welcoming croatia to this house.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in fact, we are now in the final round of accession, as far as we have to deal with this in the community institutions, because then there will be the ratification process in the national parliaments, which is certainly not easy either. but having closely observed the previous 12 enlargement member states during my time as chairman of the foreign affairs committee, i can say that croatia is a country that has worked significantly on meeting the conditions on a large scale over a long period of time and that for this reason the development towards a yes is a positive one. we should support this for political reasons. this is also a signal to other countries which may have to wait a long time before the door to europe is open and not closed in general. the general political message is important. however, based on experience with other countries, i would say that croatia must also work in its own interest - independently of the accession process - in particular on the reform of the judicial and administrative system. if processes are delayed for too long, corruption allegations are made, but the processes take too long, then this is detrimental to the overall development. this is where further efforts should be made.
member of the commission. − mr president, as you know, the commission adopted the first annual growth survey in connection with the europe 2020 strategy last month. the annual growth survey makes a break with the past and sets in motion the first cycle of economic policy coordination under the european semester. the main idea behind the european semester is very simple: to ensure the stability of economic and monetary union, we have no choice but to carry out ex-ante coordination of economic policies within the eu. the recent debt crisis in some euro area countries illustrates this all too clearly. this more robust and demanding approach shows that the european union recognises how closely interlinked the member states’ economies are and how policy choices in one member state can have an impact on the others. managing the european semester will be a real test for the eu. strengthening political ownership of the strategy and local partnerships has been a key priority for us. the challenge now is to demonstrate that the union can collectively identify the key policy reforms most urgently needed and provide the right policy responses. the annual growth survey is very clear about the top priorities. it sets out an integrated approach to recovery with 10 priority actions under three main headings: first, a rigorous fiscal consolidation and restructuring of the financial sector to step up macroeconomic stability; second, structural reforms for higher employment; and finally, growth-enhancing measures. we have taken good note of your concerns on the key messages of the annual growth survey, to the effect that they may seem to depart from the integrated guidelines. however, i want to be clear on this. the commission has deliberately chosen to focus this year’s annual growth survey on the most immediate challenges stemming from the current economic crisis and on the need to frontload the reforms that are necessary for economic recovery and job creation. the annual growth survey is fully consistent with the integrated guidelines, including the employment guidelines. i welcome parliament’s support to the commission’s proposal to maintain the employment guidelines unchanged for 2011. indeed, it is vital to ensure a stable policy framework until the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy in 2014 for member states to have enough time to implement the necessary reforms. the employment guidelines also provide the basis for the draft joint employment report (part of the annual growth survey), which identifies the most urgent measures in the area of employment, including: first, introducing employment-friendly taxation systems, namely by shifting taxes away from labour; second, reducing labour market segmentation; third, removing barriers to balancing private and work life; fourth, supporting unemployed people, through high-quality training and job search services, to get back into work and go into self-employment; and finally, increasing the participation of older workers in labour markets. more importantly, the employment guidelines will form the basis for possible country-specific recommendations which the council may address to member states on the basis of article 148 of the treaty. the annual growth survey provides the basis for discussion at the spring european council in march and for the economic policy guidance to be addressed to the member states. the commission expects the member states to take this guidance into account when they draft their stability or convergence programmes and the national reform programmes under the europe 2020 strategy. the commission will examine the national reform programmes, which are due in the second half of april. on the basis of that examination and in line with the treaty, we will propose country-specific policy guidance and recommendations that member states should take into account when finalising their budgets for 2012. the policy guidance and recommendations should be adopted by the council before the summer. let me close by stressing the importance of your role in the successful implementation of europe 2020 and specifically the seven flagship initiatives. your role as co legislator is fundamental to their successful implementation. setting the right framework conditions is vital if we are to meet the europe 2020 targets. discussion of the new multiannual financial framework will start soon. the commission will present its proposals by june. your role as a budgetary authority together with the council will be crucial to ensuring that the europe 2020 priorities are reflected in the eu budget. if we are to be credible we need to make sure our financial priorities are in line with our strategies and political priorities. at a time of fiscal constraints, it is more important than ever to show that the eu has added value and that a euro spent at eu level can have a greater impact than a euro spent at national level. to ensure the success of europe 2020 we need political ownership at all levels. only if everyone plays their part can we achieve our objectives and set the right course for future growth.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have listened to you carefully, commissioner, mr president of the council, i have read the annual growth report, i have read the conclusions of the ecofin, and since then one thing has become absolutely clear to me: the european union is not only in an economic crisis, it is in a political crisis. what you're recommending is not new. have your staff present documents from the last ten years. it always says the same thing, that government spending is too high, that the only adjustment mechanism in new times is wages, and they are always too high. i haven't seen any other references. whether it's raining, whether it's snowing, whether we're in crisis or booming, it's always the same ideology, but it has nothing to do with empirical economic reality. i would suggest that you send those who write this down to you, those who do the economic analysis in the council and the commission, to the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we want to know their economic models. we want to discuss with them whether they do not see that europe is on the verge of recession. if you subtract the german export figures, the german growth figures, you will see what i mean. and then i ask you why there's no word on investing -- at the lowest investment rate ever, when we can't afford it ourselves -- why there's no word on income improvement, no word on cyclical equity or about us finally learning to grow together, about how we're coming out of the crisis. not a word of this in your documents! you have missed the start this year and you must make a great effort to live up to the expectations of the citizens of europe! but i 'll tell you this: if that is the spirit in which you want to take a decision in march on the economic governance package, on the reform of the stability and growth pact, my group will not be available for that.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i think that the commissioner has made a very good point. it is hardly anyone outside the eu who understands which strategy, which stability mechanism, which pact is being supplemented, implemented or amended by whom and according to which rules. it is clear that the europe 2020 strategy has not yet offered a solution to the problems of the population in crisis. on the contrary, i am. it continues to rely on the eu's failed policies that contributed to the crisis. it continues to rely on the stability and growth pact. the commission is also proposing to strengthen the sanctions mechanisms. in practice, this is a matter of austerity at the expense of the citizens. it is about extending working life, and therefore reducing pensions. whether it is to abolish wage indexation, restrict the bargaining power of the social partners or make working time arrangements more flexible, the issue is one of wage restraint and reduction. and it is about reducing the constructive interference of the public sector in the economic life of society. some people call this the debt brake. i do not care whether you call it economic governance or stability and growth policy or the competitiveness pact or the commission's recommendation based on the annual growth report. this is an anti-social policy which my group and i do not support! but of course it makes a difference whether or not parliaments have a say in this policy. the debate yesterday on the treaty amendment procedure gives reason to hope that the members of the european parliament will agree on one point. we should not allow ourselves to be drawn back to the 19th century policy of government secrecy. nobody wants to. but we should not allow ourselves to retreat into a two-speed europe either.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are in the midst of a major economic crisis. we have been talking about it for months, that is all true. but we usually talk in the headlines and then decide to go on as if nothing had happened. i think that is because we are not being concrete enough and honest enough here in parliament, but are pursuing a sort of headline policy. what are we really doing to promote growth and stability? are we helping to make our finances more orderly and wiser? are we really doing a critical examination of whether we are spending the right money, or does not each one of us have a new idea every day of where to spend money? if we do not have the power to focus the funds on the projects of the future - and that means arguing and debating and deciding - then there is no point in talking about innovation and research but not providing the funds for it. that's relatively dishonest. if we want to revive the economy, we must also make policies that stimulate the economy and not think about how to disrupt industry or the economy from morning to night. we are still making decisions with a vigour, and we are still calling for new decisions which are disrupting the economic development. does anyone think that the issue of mandatory energy efficiency - to give just one example - is going to help drive the economy forward? do you really think that the decisions we have taken on energy have stimulated the economy? or did we disturb them? i wish we could talk about this a little more honestly and then make a little less decisions, but maybe make the decisions that really move us forward. it is more tiring, more laborious, it will also mean quarrels, but that is the meaning of democracy!
if you look at the measures that have been decided here in recent months and add up the costs we have caused, it has not always been, but very often has been, a contribution to the disruption of economic development. so we should think more carefully. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the europe 2020 strategy is very important not only for the development of european social and economic policy but also for national social and economic policy. we must be careful that this strategy is not misused to practice social slashing in the member states at european level. i am extremely shocked that the commission is proposing in its annual growth report wage cuts and a worsening of social protection. some speakers have already mentioned this: the effect on the people on the ground is catastrophic. it is not possible for the people, the workers, to pay the costs of budgetary consolidation alone. i too would appeal to all member states to use the integrated guidelines as the only guiding principles when drawing up their national reform programmes, as they allow for a much better balance between social protection and economic growth. the annual growth report now mentions open ended contracts again, as in the new skills for new jobs agenda. mr andor, we have already discussed this in november 2010: it is not possible that the weakening of workers' rights will lead to the integration of young people into the labour market. experience in europe has shown that this relaxation only transfers to precarious employment and does not create new jobs. we need concrete actions to help the most vulnerable people, not side-by-side and unconnected flagship initiatives.
mr president, in relation to the next two amendments, i am withdrawing our amendment no 8. in return, as discussed with mr swoboda, the rapporteur, and his shadows, we have an oral amendment to amendment no 7 which reads, ‘in order to address remaining shortcomings with regard to the domestic prosecution of war crimes ... ’ the text would then continue with that in amendment no 7 by mr swoboda.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have agreed with the report by mrs oomen-ruijten and i would like to stress two points. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the community cannot of course refinance this injustice. this is where european coordination is needed. the second point i like very much about this report is that the principle of subsidiarity clearly states that the member states are responsible for pension provision themselves. that's right, you're right. i therefore consider this report to be a step in the right direction, that we in europe, on the one hand, recognise that our citizens want more coordination in the social field in europe because they feel they are being treated unfairly, and that on the other hand we make clear where the main responsibility lies, namely in the member states. this report goes in that direction. we shall do our utmost to ensure that the white paper continues to do so.
in writing. - i am very pleased that parliament and the council have been able to agree on a compromise on the problem of falsified medicines. this is particularly important as the counterfeiting of medicines has become a very serious problem, extending to vital products. the measures adopted have been an important step in the right direction, but without excessive bureaucracy. the main objectives are to introduce new safety features on packaging and to improve the monitoring of distribution channels. this is a way of ensuring greater patient safety, which is a necessary requirement given the scale of counterfeiting, without imposing an undue burden on all concerned.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report because it opens up new ground in the fight against medicines which are not genuine. in stages, medicines that are susceptible to falsification are offered in safe packaging, and later other medicines are offered. pharma-marketing is prevented by the query and readability procedure. consumer protection is being strengthened. the costs are clear to industry.
in writing. − support for small and medium-sized enterprises safeguards many jobs and strengthens the innovation potential of the european economy. it is therefore absolutely right to provide these firms with a sensible source of external capital, because only then can they make the necessary investments. the increase in risk capital, as called for by the european parliament, must, however, be rejected in principle. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the resolution, which is entitled 'scarecrow for all', calls in part for private equity firms to make it easier to do business. in this way, small businesses in particular would be even more powerful than they are now, and would be the plaything of investors who are often looking for absurdly high double-digit returns, and who can usually only achieve this by cutting up and selling the acquired companies in piles.
in writing. - i abstained on the european parliament's report on a european pension system. it is, however, a matter of principle that the european union should consider how to support the efforts of the member states to achieve adequate pensions. however, pension policy is and remains a matter for the individual nation states, and the eu should act with the utmost sensitivity and consideration for national circumstances. the current decisions are not particularly favourable to the german occupational pension model. i believe that at european level there must be no arrangements which endanger the occupational pension system which has been successfully implemented in many european countries. there is still a great deal of improvement to be made.
in writing. - i have approved the oomen-ruijten report on the green paper on pensions. the result of the negotiations is, in the view of the cdu, sound and lays the foundations for the following white paper. in the further course of the german occupational pensions, the duration of the employment relationship and a risk insurance for the insolvency of existing commitments are important. under no circumstances may occupational pensions be transferred to a compulsory european system.
in writing. - we strongly support croatia's early membership of the european union. the people of croatia have high expectations of such membership. however, these can only be met if croatia is truly ready for accession and fulfils all the accession criteria. croatia is already further along in this process than many of today's eu member states were when they joined. however, the commission's progress report clearly shows that there is still some homework to be done. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. for us, accuracy is more important than speed and reliable execution is more important than promises. old mistakes must not be repeated. anything else is not in the interests of the european union or of croatia and its people. that is why we abstained today.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as a development politician, i always wonder why it is so difficult to learn from past crises and disasters. it seems to me that the drama of the 2008 hunger riots has not yet been fully captured in the minds and hearts of those who have political and economic power, and also those who speculate unscrupulously on the agricultural commodity markets. the number of hungry people worldwide has risen again to over one billion, and the so-called price inflation in food markets is affecting the world's poorest people most. they have to spend more than 80% of their money on food every day. the global pledges made in 2009 to provide more than $20 billion in agricultural aid to developing countries, including $6 billion through the world bank, to fight hunger, have not been met. so far, only $925 million has been paid. speculation in agricultural commodity markets is no longer about foodstuffs but almost exclusively about financial market activities and transactions that have a direct impact on food prices. i am therefore pleased that the commission is now beginning to drop its reservations in this connection. however, speculation on price developments has not become more transparent, nor is it controlled or restricted. but that is crucial to be able to act effectively and to achieve change here. i therefore call on the council, the commission and the member states to give the fight against hunger the highest priority in all policies, agendas and strategies and to consider new methods and new forms, such as food sovereignty, so that, in the end, those who farm also have more control and influence over the provision of food to their own people in their regions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. food and drink hardly anything should be more commonplace and natural to us. but what we take for granted becomes a serious, almost insurmountable challenge for many people. food prices have risen rapidly, making the situation of many people even worse. to counter the multiple causes of price increases, a package of measures is needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. the dominant position of some food groups and retail chains must also be examined. the developing countries also need our greater support in developing their agriculture. it is the only way to feed the poorest and to improve their economic situation. let us be clear: fair prices for agricultural raw materials are not the problem, they are the solution. i believe that fair prices for agricultural raw materials - fair means free from speculation - are the crucial prerequisite for the establishment of agriculture in the developing countries. adequate food is a human right, and hunger is a crime against humanity. the provision of affordable, high-quality food to the population of the european union, and indeed of the world, must therefore be the central concern of european agricultural policy!
i have to say, madam president, food prices have reached new record highs. food price volatility has increased in recent years for a variety of reasons. this is a matter of great concern. climate change is causing extreme weather conditions, destroying entire crops in some countries. the commission has also been asked to take a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the financial crisis. moreover, the poor are increasingly competing with the rich in their food and driving. we must find ways of giving farmers sufficient incentive to produce food and only use land that is not used for food production for the production of biofuels, for example. as a social democrat, i believe it is important that all people have access to healthy food at reasonable prices and that farmers are able to earn a decent income from their work.
i have to say, madam president, market fluctuations are important for the functioning of markets to create incentives for buying and selling goods. for us farmers, the heating business is an essential part of the buying and selling of crops. they provide an important means of maintaining planning certainty by securing prices and quantities at an early stage. the rising food prices are a problem, in contrast to our rich industrialized countries, especially in the poor regions of the world where the population has to spend a large part of its income on food. we must not try to combat natural fluctuations by new market interventions every time prices change. but without an international framework for financial markets, we do not need to think about regulating commodity markets. because when there is too much money in the financial markets, it seeks its equivalent, and commodities are highly valued at the moment. it is not surprising that agricultural raw materials are now a coveted target for trade.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 17 february 2011. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in egypt. the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, mr füle, has the floor.
mr president, commissioner, honourable members of the presidency of the council! we have to see again what we have not yet learned, which is that we often have to work with undemocratic regimes because many countries in this world are ruled by dictators. but we must not forget to work with civil society. we must do this at the same time, in order to support human rights and develop democracy in this way. the second point is that we need to see that stability is not the only thing that matters. the only way to achieve real stability is to play the card of freedom. if we do not seize the opportunity now and offer help to the brave people in these countries, we risk running into a void and not achieving a change, a wind of change, as we had in central and eastern europe in 1989, but experiencing a situation like 1979 in iran. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am therefore grateful that, after the difficulties encountered in the initial phase of our new service, the foreign office and the commission are now obviously stepping forward and coming up with sensible proposals. it is important that we not only improve and strengthen the aid structurally, but also make offers - whether they are accepted depends on the people there - that you help these countries to build democratic structures so that they are able to enter into a democratic competition so that the democrats win elections, and not so that those who are perhaps organized through a military regime or through the muslim brotherhood eventually win the elections. and this is where we have to be a little bit bolder and maybe design our programs a little bit smarter than we have done in the past. i hope we're on the right track here. if we can do that, we will not make some of the mistakes of the past and we should see this as an opportunity for us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. revolutions are rarely predictable in their course. it was not the american one, it was not the french one, it was not the great european one of 1989/91. the important thing is that we are clear about one thing: this is and will remain the egyptian revolution. it is not a european revolution that we can control, but it is the right thing for mrs ashton to do there, namely to listen and not to try to establish a european dictate there. but one thing is already central: egypt must not only hold an election in august, but the egyptians must also have a real election. it is good that the muslim brotherhood has got involved in the process of changing the constitution, it is forming a party, it will participate in elections, but the secular forces must also be involved so that the egyptians have a real choice in this revolution of freedom. a word about adjusting the instruments. it's jargon, you can barely understand it. what do you mean, "i'm not"? first of all, more money for the european investment bank to do something. but then? we need a european foundation for democracy so that we can work more effectively, more quickly and more democratically with these civil societies in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i come from berlin, and the whole world rejoiced with us berliners when the border in our city fell and the borders opened up all over eastern europe. now, in the case of egypt, we have reacted too late, too reluctantly and, above all, too emotionally. where was our joy? every other word we said was "preserving stability". but freedom is the most important thing for every person in the world. we germans know what we're talking about. what we had in egypt was not stability, it was oppression. freedom and stability can always go hand in hand. that is why we cannot tell the egyptians who to vote for. if the elections are fair and democratic, we must accept the result and not presume - as we did in palestine or algeria - to judge whether we recognize the elected representatives or not. we must recognize the choice.
mr president, i would like to say to mr füle that we really need to focus on insisting on a transition to civilian government, and on making sure that the military regime now in place will fulfil its promises. i think that a committee has now been set up to work on the constitution, but there is not a single woman in it. that it is rather a pity when we consider how many women – young women – were in the streets making sure that this democratic transition, this revolution, includes the whole of society. so, we need to support them, we need to demand, when you go there and when baroness ashton goes there, to meet with women: to meet not only those who might be called ‘the usual suspects’ but also those who were involved in the revolution and whose voices are not so often heard. we have to insist on all prisoners being released and on an investigation being conducted into the violence that has occurred. lastly, i think that baroness ashton is right: this is a time to think big. this is about eu trade, about visas, about money – and it is about courage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. there is no need for self-righteousness on the part of the ppe. the fact that there are now changes to the hungarian media law gives the right to those who have prosecuted them. mr orbán was not one of them at the beginning. i say as clearly as i can that the changes that are happening now are not enough. we still have a supervisory authority that is staffed for nine years by fides members only. this is not compatible with legislation at european level. there's still no source protection in place. so it's not really a democratic media law. mrs kroes, in my view you have gone too far, you have obviously been more interested in peace and in the fact that the hungarian presidency of the council is not disturbed than in a truly democratic media law. i would remind you that anti-communist democratic liberal intellectuals such as györgy konrad, agnes heller and michael woida have appealed to the european institutions for help. we haven't reached that yet. i think that this law should be revised in a truly democratic way.
mr president, commissioner kroes, and the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking you, mrs kroes, for having taken up the debate so quickly and for having entered into negotiations with the hungarian government. but above all i would like to thank the hungarian government for having kept what it promised in all the hearings and in all the discussions in the run-up to and at the beginning of the debate, namely that if there is a need for change, it will implement those changes adequately. freedom of the media and media pluralism are important core values in our european union. but the media also have a very special responsibility in our society. they must respect individual rights, they must not discriminate and above all they must tell the truth. they're not moving in a law-free space. this is also a big step forward in the new media law in hungary. the media enjoy very special protection, particularly under the current legal framework of the european union. the commission has done very well in the past as the guardian of these laws. the debate we are having today would have been superfluous if more confidence had been placed in the commission's work as guardian of these laws. the system is working, as the results we have heard today show, and the changes are being made in areas where the law is not 100% eu-compliant. this is a great success. i think that the ideological debates which are being held here, and in this context, are totally out of place. it is clear that the factual and cooperative examination of the issues in dispute on the basis of the applicable law in the context of the discussions and negotiations has helped to clarify matters and has produced good results. i hope that the various political groups will also stop playing political games and withdraw the relevant resolutions.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members for all the efforts which parliament in general, and the committee on international trade (inta) in particular, has put into securing prompt assessment – and, i hope, ratification – of the eu-korea free trade agreement (fta). this will permit its entry into force. this complex task comprised two major processes: finalisation of negotiations on the korea safeguard regulation, implementing the bilateral safeguard clause of the eu-korea fta, and the preparation of consent to this treaty. i welcome the first-reading agreement between the council and parliament on the safeguard regulation. the work that was done has not only secured legislation which will provide necessary protection for eu industry, but it has also confirmed the joint commitment of parliament, the council and the commission to efficient law making. this was also the first trade dossier on which parliament acted as co-legislator under the lisbon treaty. the outcome of its involvement is indeed impressive. i will not repeat the list of benefits which the eu-korea fta is expected to bring to the eu economy: we have thoroughly debated them here in the past, and mr sturdy has just summed them up. let me instead open a brief parenthesis to place the agreement with korea in the wider perspective of the future of eu trade policy, as sketched out by the commission in its communication of 9 november 2010, and to recap the basic tenets of our policy line. first of all, we continue to favour the multilateral channel of the wto as the first-best way to liberalise trade and lay down the rules to govern global commerce. despite the setbacks and the deadlock since mid-2008, we continue to push actively for the conclusion of the doha development round, 10 years now after its inception. it is still well worth clinching a deal, both for the economic gains and in the interests of furthering the wto. that is why i took the initiative of bringing together in davos the trade ministers of the world’s seven most important trading countries to discuss, in concrete terms, how we can now proceed and enter the end-game, following the impetus given by the g20 in seoul. i believe our meeting was a success, and senior officials are now working intensively in an attempt to stage a political breakthrough in the summer. however, as we said back in november, the bilateral and the multilateral are not enemies. indeed, it may well be the case that liberalisation fuels liberalisation. we have pursued bilateral trade deals that generate genuine value added compared with what can be achieved through the wto, and we will keep on doing so because the pace of multilateral progress is unavoidably slow. this has been, and is, our fundamental motivation for pursuing the fta with korea. i will reiterate today the commission’s commitments to the european parliament, which it made in relation to the implementation of the korea safeguard regulation and the eu-korea fta. as provided for in the safeguard regulation, ‘the commission will present a yearly report to the european parliament and council on the implementation of the eu-korea fta and will be ready to discuss with the inta committee any issues arising from the implementation of the agreement.‘ the commission will closely monitor the implementation by korea of its commitments on regulatory issues, including in particular the commitments relating to technical regulations in the car sector. the monitoring shall include all aspects of non-tariff barriers and its results shall be documented and reported to the european parliament and the council.‘ particular importance will be attached to the effective implementation of commitments on labour and environment of chapter 13: trade and sustainable development of the fta. in this connection, the commission will seek the advice of the domestic advisory group, which will include representatives of business organisations, trade unions and non-governmental organisations. the implementation of chapter 13 of the fta shall be duly documented and reported to the european parliament and the council.‘ the commission also agrees on the importance of providing effective protection in the case of sudden surges of imports in sensitive sectors, including small cars. monitoring of sensitive sectors shall include cars, textiles and consumer electronics. in this connection, the commission notes that the small-car sector can be considered a relevant market for the purpose of a safeguard investigation.‘ the commission notes that the designation of outward processing zones in the korean peninsula, in accordance with the provisions of article 12 of the protocol on rules of origin, would require an international agreement between the parties to which the european parliament would have to give its consent. the commission will keep parliament fully informed of the deliberations by the committee on outward processing zones in the korean peninsula.‘ the commission also notes that if, due to exceptional circumstances, it decides to extend the duration of an investigation pursuant to article 4(3) of the korea safeguard regulation, it will ensure that such an extended timing does not go beyond the expiry date of any provisional measures introduced pursuant to article 5.‘ moreover, the commission and the european parliament agree on the importance of close cooperation in monitoring the implementation of the eu-korea fta and the safeguard regulation.‘ to this end, in case the ep adopts a recommendation to initiate a safeguard investigation, the commission will carefully examine whether the conditions under the regulation for ex-officio initiation are fulfilled. in case the commission considers that the conditions are not fulfilled, it will present a report to the inta committee including an explanation of all factors relevant to the initiation of such an investigation. ‘upon request by the inta committee, the commission shall report to the committee on any specific concerns relating to the implementation by korea of its commitments on non-tariff measures or on chapter 13 of the fta.’ that is the end of the quotation. finally, let me elaborate on two issues which are of interest to you: the korean co2 legislation on car emissions, and the supplementary agreement on the draft korea-us fta (korus), which was finalised in december 2010. on 24 january 2011, korea confirmed that certain changes will be introduced to its previous draft co2 legislation, which satisfactorily address a number of concerns expressed by european car makers, while retaining korea’s ambitious emission reduction objectives. the changes, which the commission welcomes, will not alter overall emissions, but will provide for fairer burden sharing between korean and eu car makers. rest assured that the eu position on the korea co2 legislation was closely coordinated at all stages within the commission and, in particular, with my colleague connie hedegaard and dg clima, to avoid undermining korea’s environmental protection efforts. as for the supplementary agreement to the draft korea-us fta reached in december 2010, the commission has not identified elements therein that could have a negative impact on the eu. i will, however, contact my korean counterpart to ensure that no competitive disadvantage arises in future for the eu automotive sector insofar as non-harmonised automotive safety standards will not be applied in a more restrictive manner than was the case at the time of the negotiations. the commission will be closely monitoring the implementation of this provision. in particular, the working group on motor vehicles and parts established by the fta will examine practical aspects of implementation to ensure that market access problems are addressed in an effective and speedy manner. to conclude, i wish to emphasise that the eu-korea fta will not only provide important benefits for european exporters to the korean market, but will also be a clear signal of our determination to pursue new opportunities in key asian economies. we are also addressing the concerns of some stakeholders by means of an efficient and effective safeguard regulation. as this is subject to the ordinary legislative procedure, both the council and this house have been able to introduce mechanisms for responding to perceived risks should they materialise. with this fta and the safeguard regulation we have an excellent package that i hope you will support tomorrow.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. international trade and exports are an important source of growth and employment in europe. the free trade agreement we are discussing today will strengthen the european union's competitiveness and give our companies much better access to a highly dynamic growth region. both the european and the korean economies benefit considerably. our gross domestic product will increase. this can lead to the creation of new jobs. our exports to korea are expected to double in the next few years as tariffs and non-tariff barriers to trade are removed; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. the european union will experience substantial new trade in goods and services worth up to eur 19 billion. i am particularly pleased that the commission has taken full account in the negotiations of the negotiating recommendations that we, as the european parliament, set out in the martin report in 2008. i am also pleased that the european commission has taken account of the concerns expressed by both parliament and the business community and has been able to dispel some of them, particularly in the last few weeks. and what i've never experienced in the field of foreign trade: the positive feedback is even coming from the agricultural sector, which is more of a worrying child in the trade negotiations. to address the agricultural sector: the agreement facilitates the access of european agricultural products to south korea as from 1 july 2011. so far, only 2% of our agricultural products have been released from customs duties on the south korean market. the annual duties on pigmeat are worth eur 240 million and on milk and milk products around eur 100 million. all these barriers to market access for our domestic agriculture are now falling. i would be glad if the european commission would consider, in this particular area, how to set up a kind of market access programme not only for small and mediumsized enterprises but also for agriculture in the countries benefiting from free trade agreements. i would be glad if we would also make sure that our partners in south korea are now actually implementing the trade facilitations promised in the agreement. i call for clear monitoring of the introduction of new barriers to trade and i would like to congratulate the commission on this. the commission's achievements, and those of the parliament's rapporteurs, particularly in the trilogue negotiations, are exemplary. i hope that there will be a large majority in this house tomorrow in favour of this agreement.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the lisbon treaty has indeed given a new impetus to trade policy. the eu has sole responsibility for trade policy and parliament votes in favour or against. we have a new responsibility. we can only shape this new responsibility if we act together. we have proved that very well in this question. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs. trade policy is not an end in itself. trade policy is intended to strengthen jobs and industrial development in the european union and to improve the living conditions of people in other countries of the world. that must be the aim of trade policy. we must therefore look at this agreement from this point of view. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to meet the needs of the regions. however, we have found some criticisms, for example the question of the customs refund in south korea, which unilaterally gives competitive advantages to certain industries in south korea, especially in sensitive areas such as the automobile industry. it was therefore right that we spoke very intensively about a safeguard clause and that we also jointly enforced it, which involves strong monitoring of precisely these points, so that we can be sure that what is possible with the customs refund in south korea does not lead to a distortion of competition in europe. parliament has put in place some real safety screws here. secondly, this agreement also has the task of improving the situation in south korea among our colleagues there. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of workers from industrial accidents. two very important core labour standards - no. 87 and no. 98, collective rights - have not been implemented, have not been ratified. in the penal code, there's a section 314, disturbing the peace of the workplace. neither of these is in accordance with the nature and the terms of this agreement. in this respect, commissioner, i am counting on you, i am counting on the statement you made accompanying the safeguard clause, that this will also be changed in south korea so that this agreement becomes a blueprint for future agreements, so that globalisation can be made fair.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are now in a historic situation, because the free trade agreement with south korea which we are discussing and which we want to adopt is the first free trade agreement to be dealt with under the new lisbon rule of full parliamentary participation. this makes an important area of policy - trade policy - more democratic. we in parliament think that is important. the debate in parliament has also shown that we have been able to incorporate important concerns raised by workers, companies and associations into an improved safeguard clause, which in future will protect the interests of industry and above all jobs by creating a level playing field, fair competition and avoiding asymmetries. that is what we have been concentrating on as the liberal and democratic group. as the shadow rapporteur for our group, i am glad that we have been able to achieve success here. the customs refund mechanism, which initially caused us concern, has now been explicitly included in the safeguard clause and there is the possibility that industry, but also parliament, can now ask the commission to carry out an inquiry. a monitoring process is planned, transparency is to be established through an online platform, and there is a greater range of examination of the factors that determine whether significant damage has occurred to european industry. the commission also provides for monitoring mechanisms, particularly for sensitive sectors in the event of increased imports. this is a good start and will help to highlight the benefits of the south korea agreement, such as the substantial reduction in customs duties. the commission expects that this will help to relieve european businesses of eur 1.6 billion. i therefore thank commissioner de gucht, who has personally worked hard to ensure that we reach a compromise, including with the council. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs, in particular robert sturdy and pablo zalba bidegain, for their good work. we've done some real good here!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the eu-south korea free trade agreement, signed in october 2010 and described by the commission and the council as the most ambitious agreement of its kind ever negotiated between the eu and a highly industrialized country, is expected to reduce around 98% of bilateral safeguard duties over the next five years. trade between the eu and korea is set to double in the medium term, accelerating economic growth, job creation and prosperity. i have a legitimate doubt about this forecast, and so does my group. apart from the mantra of free trade as a quasi-savior for the dangerously disordered world economy, which is also reflected in the free trade agreement itself, this agreement does not yet show whether it is willing and able to contribute to the global challenges arising from climate change and the necessary fundamental economic restructuring. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. at the same time, mr commissioner, the free trade agreement concluded contains little reference to sustainability, to change-oriented policies, to international economic cooperation. the agreement is being concluded in violation of the basic standards of the international labour organisation. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i stress that we need a win-win situation. we have a new generation. that's good. the agreement with south korea includes a chapter on sustainable development, covering labour standards, environmental policy and a monitoring mechanism involving civil society. that's good too. the free trade agreement is a step in the right direction and i thank everyone and emphasize: it was a good job. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is not just the final product that should be considered, it is not just the agricultural industry that should benefit, but the farmers. in the interests of european consumers and our farmers, it is essential that the liberalisation of trade flows imposes that agricultural products imported into the european union meet our high standards of environmental, animal and consumer protection, both at the origin and in the production chain. i shall be supporting the position of the committee on international trade tomorrow, but i am firmly calling for the food sector and farmers to be taken into account in the further liberalization efforts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i can still remember how, just as now in egypt or tunisia, people, especially young people, in korea took to the streets and fought against police brutality and gun violence for freedom, democracy, self-determination. it's amazing what's happened since then. it is amazing how much korea has achieved in terms of democracy, self-determination, freedom, but also in terms of economy and now increasingly in the environmental field. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the fact that we are rejecting this agreement today has a number of specific reasons, some of which my colleague mr jadot has already mentioned. i would also mention, for example, the regulation of the financial sector, which we believe is going in the wrong direction. but there are also fundamental reasons. we are making more and more free trade agreements, each one giving rise to another. what we need is not a patchwork of new and new individual agreements, but fair and just rules for world trade as a whole.
the president of the council. − the council's opinion on the development of the rule of law in serbia is contained in the council conclusions of 14 december 2010. in this conclusion, the council welcomed the continuation of the implementation of the reform agenda by serbia and the further progress made in the implementation of the provisions of the interim agreement with the european union. in its conclusions, the council also noted that serbia continues to perform well in the fulfilment of its obligations under the saa. however, further efforts are needed, in particular in the areas of public administration reform, the rule of law, including judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime, and improving the business environment. the council has not discussed the development of the rule of law in serbia in relation to the specific procedure to which the honourable member refers.
after i tabled the question, a group of serbian citizens of albanian nationality were sentenced to maximum penalties by a special court in a show trial, accused of acts in kosovo. shouldn't this have been handled by eulex rather than serbia? could you please take care of that and specifically inform yourself about this case i asked about?
the president of the council. - thank you very much, congressman. he should know that the council's position on any enlargement and any stabilisation and association agreement is determined by the fact that the european council in copenhagen in 1993 laid down the so-called accession criteria, and that this includes respect for human and minority rights, and that the council cannot take more importance than this principle in the negotiations. i can tell you that your request is of course taken into account by the hungarian presidency, which represents the council, and that it feels the weight of the story and, as in all accession and association agreements, pays particular attention to these issues.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have one more question to put to the council in relation to mr posselt's question. my colleague has already asked whether the council could imagine contacting the government and the local authorities again in this particular case. i would therefore ask the presidency once again: can the presidency of the council envisage in this particular case contacting the local authorities?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to begin by thanking mr kalfin for his ambitious report and remind you once again that it was the european court of justice which requested that the external mandate be decided in the context of co-decision. that means that we are also talking about more rights for parliament, and we welcome that as confident meps. the european union has set itself a number of laudable objectives in the lisbon treaty: conservation of natural resources, the fight against poverty, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. it is therefore right that the eib should be an instrument working towards these objectives, not against them, and that every effort should be made to ensure that the eib is also involved in achieving these objectives. it is also about environmental infrastructure, better water supply, sanitation and more money for health and education, because we know that this will help to secure the future of third countries and is a very important contribution to the fight against poverty. the optional mandate in the field of climate protection is also very positive from a green point of view. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am equally pleased with what mr kalfin has now proposed, that the eib must also help economic development and democratic change in the mediterranean region - particularly now in tunisia and egypt. that is why we think these amendments, which we shall be voting on later, are right. we have a great interest in greater transparency of the european investment bank. the commission must now submit a report every year. but that alone is not enough for us, we are interested in real transparency. we also want ngos and other qualified forces to be involved in the decision-making process earlier in the run-up to decisions. we believe that this transparency contributes to the acceptance of the eib and does not undermine it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore hope that there will be a rapid process so that we can then make common policies for the benefit of citizens in third countries as well.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the lisbon treaty places new demands on the european union's external and development policies. one of them has been mentioned here: coherence, i.e. the unified action of our various instruments, the european external action service, the european investment bank and the commission. the lisbon treaty also provides for greater parliamentary control, greater transparency and joint decisions on these issues. the whole thing will do a great deal of good for the quality of the debate on foreign policy, especially if we have more transparency through the involvement of the relevant committees in this house - primarily the foreign affairs committee and the development committee. one result of this transparency is that this parliament has decided to remove belarus from the list of countries where the european investment bank can operate without having a second debate in this house. is there respect for human rights? have the opposition politicians been released? does the state respect the property of its citizens? is there freedom of the press? can entrepreneurs act freely? are there free unions? these are all issues which, in a relationship with such an important neighbour, which is right on the border of the european union, must be debated before the european investment bank takes action there. i am very pleased that this house has followed that suggestion and i would ask the council to do the same. yesterday we had the debate on egypt. there was a discussion about the instruments, about what we can do. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. parliament is happy to follow suit. we need to work better with egypt and tunisia, with north africa. that's right, you're right. and this is a good example of how this parliament can also react quickly. the council is now called upon to do the same and must act accordingly. i believe that with our external instruments - especially if they are market-oriented, as the european investment bank is with its loans - we can do a good job of development and economic development in north africa. that's exactly what it is. if there is development there, if there is democracy there, then we have fewer refugees at our borders. i would like to say this to the colleagues on the far right: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are facing a new wave of implementation of eu funds through the eib. that is why i am speaking here, also because i want to give us a little warning. the eib currently has a liability of eur 20 billion to the eu budget. if those liabilities were to expire, we'd have a problem. i would therefore ask us to look very carefully and very carefully at the future implementation of eu funds through the eib. in third countries, the eib has fewer than 500 employees, while the european commission has 3 700. it is still the case that the commission would be much better placed to control eu funds itself than through the eib. i think there is a lot of confusion about the real motive behind the eib's mandate. i would ask you to stop thinking that we can allow the privatisation of other people's profits and the socialisation of their losses. we will have to justify this to the taxpayers and the voters in our home countries. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to table an oral amendment on behalf of my group to strengthen equal opportunities and the gender dimension in the eu 2020 strategy. i shall now read the english text, new paragraph 10a: insists that gender equality is a key target for achievement of the ambitions of eu 2020. calls therefore for the full participation of women in the labour market and the full inclusion of female workers in vocational training. so calls for an agenda to eradicate the pay gap that exists between women and men. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we support the movement for democracy in egypt with great enthusiasm, but we must know that free elections are not enough. we need an integrated approach to give people a perspective, a kind of mediterranean plan, a kind of marshall plan for north africa and egypt. the aim will be to give people a social perspective, to strengthen education policy, to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, to ensure that crime and corruption are combated and, above all, to establish close cooperation in the field of energy policy, where north africa and europe have a lot to offer each other in the field of solar energy. the real big tasks are still ahead of us. the first job was done by the democrats in egypt, but now we are also called upon to do it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this resolution is another step in the right direction, but no more. after all, as commissioner hahn has proposed, we are now talking about a danube strategy and not a danube strategy, because what is at stake is not the rehabilitation of the river, as important as it is, but cooperation in a large region consisting of bavaria and baden-württemberg, the former danube monarchy and large parts of the balkans. i am happy that countries such as bohemia and slovenia are also included in the list, as we wished, even though they are not directly on the danube. in this sense, i would like to see projects such as the main railway line from strasbourg to pressburg and budapest, ten 17, and other projects which do not always run directly on the danube but cross it again and again, but which are of strategic importance for the danube region, included in the future. i particularly welcome articles 36 to 40 which deal with culture and the involvement of civil society, because without them this danube strategy will not succeed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the tiny beginnings of the rule of law in russia are disappearing, and the country is not only not moving forward, it is moving backwards. the man in charge of this is mr putin. mr putin is the one who is running this privatization. we must see that he is not the solution to the problem, but an essential part and cause of the problem. president medvedev must first prove - i agree with tunne kelam - that he is not merely the pretty mask of mr putin, the somewhat friendlier mask, but that he is actually trying or is able to anchor a little more rule of law in this member state of the council of europe, which is obliged to uphold the rule of law under the human rights convention. we must be very critical, we must of course maintain dialogue, but we must also ensure that the rule of law is respected here. it is shocking that the court which sentenced mr khodorkovsky has now publicly stated that it received instructions from moscow for its verdict. this has nothing to do with the rule of law!
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the incidents on the thai-cambodian border.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. fighting on the thai-cambodian border earlier this month has brought this decades-long conflict over access to the preah vihear temple back into the international public consciousness. the european union is also committed to the peace process, and we are convinced that the peace process must be conducted in a democratic manner. the asean, un and eu are called upon to work with increased intensity now and not to wait to react when the situation escalates again. in recent fighting, civilians and soldiers on both sides have been injured and killed. the use of cluster bombs was particularly treacherous. these cluster munitions have a devastating effect on civilians long after they've been dropped. up to 30% of cluster bombs do not explode, they remain in situ and explode when touched, for example, by children playing. thailand and cambodia are called upon to immediately stop the use of these cruel weapons. and we call on both governments to join the international convention to ban cluster bombs. the european union is also calling on the government of thailand and the government of cambodia to make every effort to avoid this conflict being fought with arms. civilians on both sides will continue to suffer. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. in fact, mrs lochbihler is right: firstly, there are the people, the dead and the wounded, and this scandalous use of cluster munitions. the second is, of course, to contain and resolve a border conflict peacefully and to ensure that it does not escalate into war. the third point - and this is also the one we are going to address - concerns the irreplaceable world cultural heritage of the temple complex in this border region. our former colleague karl von habsburg, son of otto von habsburg, is responsible for these matters at unesco and will be here in strasbourg at the march plenary to give us more information on these matters. i believe, in fact, that we must make a concerted effort to combine peace efforts and the protection of people with the protection of cultural property. we in europe know what terrible snow wars can bring to the cultural landscape. that is why we must engage in all parts of the world where cultural heritage is threatened.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i can confirm that the commission is following the events along the thai-cambodian border closely. on 7 february 2011, the vice-president of the commission/high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, baroness ashton, expressed her concern about the armed clashes. she called on both countries to exercise the utmost restraint, to take the necessary steps to reduce tension, and to resume dialogue with a view to resolving their differences peacefully. the points raised by the parliament’s draft resolution were discussed on 14 february 2011 in the united nations security council, in the presence of the foreign ministers of thailand, cambodia and indonesia, the latter in its capacity as current chair of asean. we agree with the conclusions of un under-secretary pascoe that the situation is indeed serious. the issue is not only about a world heritage site. it is also about – perceived or real – national and cultural identities and national pride. most importantly, the issue is about human lives and about regional stability. there are two questions: what can the region do to redress the situation, and how can the eu contribute to a peaceful settlement? it is obvious that this kind of conflict cannot be solved by armed force. asean has a role to play, and we are pleased to see that asean is assuming its responsibility. the indonesian foreign minister has rightly invoked the treaty of amity and cooperation. this agreement requires all parties to settle their differences by peaceful means. we welcome the decision by indonesia to convene a special asean foreign ministers’ meeting on this subject on 22 february 2011 in jakarta. there is broad agreement in the united nations on not letting this issue get out of hand. members of the security council have called on both parties to refrain from provocation and from deploying military reinforcements along the border. it is becoming clear that regional efforts offer the most promising avenue for a peaceful resolution to the conflict. for the eu, this implies giving full support to asean. the external action service is following the matter in detail and will be considering options for supporting asean, if such support is appropriate and is requested from their side.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the final debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the following subjects: yemen death penalty for juvenile offenders, in particular the case of muhammed taher thabet samoum.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the european union, in implementing its well-established death penalty guidelines, has long been active in fighting the death penalty in yemen, both generally and by targeting individual cases. the capital punishment of juvenile offenders has always taken place in yemen. in earlier times, however, cases were largely unknown and civil society was not as active. the eu-funded and unicef-implemented juvenile justice programme has contributed significantly to raising awareness, both in yemen and within the international community. this programme was carried out together with a coalition of civil society organisations and the higher council for motherhood and childhood. however, awareness-raising is not enough. we need to follow up with actions. as a last resort, the eu delegation actively carries out démarches to halt executions. the two most recent cases were in december 2010 for fuad ahmed ali abdulla, and in january 2011 for muhammed taher thabet samoum. in both cases, the execution was halted – after eu intervention – to allow for presentation of evidence of age. the issue of muhammed taher thabet samoum was taken up again last week. it seems now as if a presidential pardon is the only hope for a formal reversal of the sentence. the eu and unicef have again contacted president saleh and now, according to our own feedback from sana’a, the execution is on hold again. yemen is bound by international obligations, and by its own juvenile justice legislation and penal code, not to execute juveniles. the reasons for having juveniles on death row are mainly attributed to a lack of capacity in age determination. we are therefore, together with unicef, looking into how to assist yemen in building up such expertise, so as to arrest the issue at its roots. in the immediate term, the eu will encourage the setting up of an independent body to re-examine the age of juvenile offenders. we will also aim to support the capacities of lawyers to provide legal assistance to juveniles. in the medium-term, we are looking to develop eu support for an effective civil registry authority. we are thus taking this extremely grave issue very seriously and using all available means. the government of yemen has shown receptiveness to our démarches. the eu remains prepared to assist them, now and in the future, to achieve our goal of eradicating the death penalty totally.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the final debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the following subjects: uganda assassination of david kato
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are today voting on the third resolution against the criminalization of homosexuality in uganda. within a short time, homosexuals in uganda have been declared to be free. even children or minors are affected. all this because of the irresponsible actions of a christian sect from the united states and the call in the local rolling stone magazine to hang a hundred known homosexuals. now - what we really wanted to prevent with our last resolution - one of these openly gay men, david kato, has been beaten up in the street with several hammer blows. we call on uganda to first investigate the murder of david kato independently, and not just arrest anyone for it. we continue to call on uganda to hold accountable those who call for the public murder of homosexuals. and we are calling on uganda to revise its legislation.
i am not going to go into that. i was told that your staff had not set a time for the speech. i'm happy to tell you in person that if your staff can provide me with the proof of shipment, i'll look into it. i'll take care of it myself if you'll turn in the proof of transfer.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me start by paying tribute to the late david kato. david kato was a courageous human rights defender and fearless lgtb rights activist. as a leading voice on lgtb rights, his life was under threat. on 2 october 2010, david kato’s name and picture, along with the names and pictures of other alleged lgbt persons, were published by a ugandan tabloid, the rolling stone, under the headline ‘hang them’, shamelessly putting their lives at risk. it was a success that he won an appeal against the paper. on 3 january, a court ruled that the paper had violated their constitutional rights to privacy and safety and awarded the three plaintiffs damages. it was his last success. on 26 january, david kato was killed. the eu, through its heads of mission in uganda, expressed its shock and called on the ugandan authorities to investigate david kato’s murder vigorously and to ensure that the perpetrators of this terrible act were brought to justice. david kato will be a great loss to the global community of human rights defenders and to uganda. his death also reminds us of the volatile situation for lgbt people in uganda and elsewhere. right after his death, on 28 january, another paper, red pepper, published an outrageous article with very insulting statements about homosexuals. the draft anti-homosexuality bill put before the ugandan parliament has been temporarily shelved, but can be re-tabled once a new parliament is established after the upcoming elections in uganda. the eu position on lgtb rights is very clear. the criminalisation of homosexuality, as foreseen in the draft uganda bill, goes against international human rights standards. the draft bill also goes against the eu-supported united nations declaration on sexual orientation and gender identity of 18 december 2008. the eu heads of mission have raised this issue with the ugandan government on several occasions at the highest level: with the president, the prime minister, the minister for foreign affairs, the minister of justice and the uganda human rights commission. on 9 february, the human rights working group, which brings together several partners in uganda, invited human rights defenders to give an update on actions undertaken by the lgbt – and broader human rights defenders’ – community, following david’s murder. on 3 february, the eu delegation, together with ten eu member states represented in uganda and norway, launched the local implementation strategy on the eu guidelines on human rights defenders. the strategy set out, in a more practical way, how eu missions and norway can work to assist and acknowledge the work of human rights defenders, including lgbt activists. the eu intends to keep raising its concerns in relation to the draft anti-homosexuality bill and other cases of the persecution of lgbt people in uganda on every suitable occasion, in dialogue with the government. in addition, the eu will continue to support local human rights organisations in their efforts to change attitudes in the country. the eu delegation will shortly meet with a protection organisation for human rights defenders to discuss ways of supporting their work for lgtb activists.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.30 p.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr šemeta, i am sorry, but what you are saying is not enough. for many months you have been given the mandate of this parliament - the mandate we have given you here in this house - to look at ways in which we can take action, including in the sense of a financial transaction tax. they haven't done it until today. the commission has already made a number of written submissions on this subject. they want us to tax the small financial services companies, the ones that still run branches, that take care of their customers, take care of the mid-sized businesses, that make sure there's still credit in the economy. the people you don't want to tax are the speculators who are moving millions and billions around the world through high-frequency trading, making our economy unpredictable, unpredictable even for the good entrepreneur, the good investor who wants to create decent jobs tomorrow. that's why your position is inadequate and why this house needs to find its own voice. i am sorry, mr gauzès, but a colleague whom i hold in high esteem is wrong in this situation. it is wrong because it dilutes the position which this house has already taken in the berès report. if we agree with mr gauzès, we are ensuring that the commission does what it is going to do anyway, namely not propose a financial transaction tax. that is the result of following the example of mr gauzès. that's why it's wrong to follow him here. if you want to give this house a voice, if you want to regain confidence, if you want to ensure that the citizens of europe look once again with hope at our institutions, that they believe that we are doing something to solve the crises, you must this time vote for the alternative proposal of the socialist and democratic group and you must vote for amendment no 2, which has been signed by more than 120 colleagues from all the important groups in this house. thank you for your support!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the call for a financial transaction tax is not new, and opponents of globalization have been calling for one for several years. but five years ago, few would have believed that it could be implemented any time soon. but this week it is on the agenda of the european parliament along with a carbon tax and eurobonds, and i think that is a good thing. i can only welcome and support the financial instruments proposed by mrs podimata in her report, and i think we will vote accordingly. these are urgently needed instruments. the consolidation of public budgets has so far been focused solely on expenditure cuts. the reduction in public spending is primarily affecting workers, pensioners and the poor, those who depend on the welfare state. the revenue side of the public sector has been completely ignored. it is the second lever to be used to consolidate public budgets. in particular, the revenue side also allows the main contributors to the public debt crisis to participate adequately in the reduction of the public debt. the increase in tax revenue is simply essential to consolidate public budgets. in fact, the high level of public debt is mainly a consequence of the nationalization of private debt, namely the takeover of the debts of private banks and the financing by the public sector of the consequences of the financial crisis. the responsibility for the debt crisis is therefore by no means the responsibility of the states alone. it is therefore not only obvious but also politically necessary to ask the financial sector to come to the table. the financial transaction tax would finally involve this sector in the reduction of this debt as the main contributor to the public debt. this is an important political signal from this report, if it is adopted as it has been presented. but we also believe that eurobonds are a useful and therefore necessary instrument. they do more to reduce debt than any sanctions or more or less well-intentioned advice. the complaints of some surplus countries that their interest burden is being increased by eurobonds are not acceptable, because at the same time these surplus countries are also earning money by exporting to the deficit countries. that's a little bit of a transfer union. but if we want a social europe, if we want the eu to remain united in the future, we must at least agree in principle to a transfer union. in conclusion, i would like to say to the commission that i hope that it will finally put forward the proposals for a financial transaction tax which have been requested for over a year.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is a question of innovative financing, but a lot has been said about this. innovation is not just about inventing new taxes or relabelling old things, like government debt. i want to focus briefly on what this debate is really about. it is not about introducing eurobonds - and we as the cdu/csu will also speak out massively against this - but about drawing the right consequences from the financial market crisis, and that simply means that speculation must also be taxed. and that also means - i want to make it clear - that if this cannot be done at the global level at the g20 level, we have to do it at the european union level. there is no alternative to this, and that is why, mr bullmann, i hope that not only the applause now, but also a clear, strong vote from the european parliament tomorrow. the commission, commissioner, must act as our ally against the member states, especially against the member state we have just heard about as loudly as the city of london is thinking. i am simply saying to you, mr farrage, look at the unemployment figures, look at the economic decline of your country, which has concentrated on financial products! if you built cars like we do in bavaria and germany, you'd be better off today. that is why it is urgent to demand and introduce the financial transaction tax now! we europeans have a duty here!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank mrs podimata. it's been a tough job these past few weeks. you will have noticed from the e-mails we have received, from the heated discussions in some of the groups, that this is a subject which many citizens are watching very closely, watching closely how politicians are positioning themselves on the issue here in parliament. the financial transaction tax is the result of a citizens' initiative which is basically pushing this proposal forward on the basis of the tobin tax, and therefore the way in which parliament now expresses itself will be decisive. there is a central question first: should it be just a global tax? at the global level, there are hardly any opponents to this tax. the next question is: should we also introduce it at european level? unfortunately, it must be made very clear that many of the opponents are hiding behind the europe argument. we should clearly reject this concealment at this point, because we have successful transaction taxes even at national level and these transaction taxes work for submarkets. in other words, even though mr šemeta is now working on the impact assessment, the question should not be whether a transaction tax can work or not, but only in which submarkets it can be introduced nationally, in which european and in which only globally. this also means that, as the amendment is worded, there is no reason for anyone who says they want to tax transactions to vote against this wording tomorrow, which is being demanded by 120 members of parliament. i would ask you, mr šemeta, to make a fair assessment of the impact, and to take account of the extent of undertaxation in the financial sector. and, ladies and gentlemen, let us tomorrow set a clear example for a european financial transaction tax. there is no technical reason for this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in order to stabilise the financial markets, we cannot avoid a financial transaction tax. we need them to curb the excesses of high-speculation. the instability of financial markets is due to short-term investment strategies and to price betting with a high use of borrowed capital. such speculation must be made unattractive and long-term investment strategies must finally be put first. the tax generates important revenue which we cannot do without in view of the costly eu bailouts. we also need a sensible approach to taxation. the lower risk securities must be taxed at a lower rate than the higher risk securities. even though the financial and banking systems are different around the world, we need the global acceptance of this financial transaction tax. it is a major contribution to reducing fluctuations in financial markets and finally putting financial transactions on a more solid footing.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the baltic sea strategy was the starting point, the danube strategy, which we discussed in parliament this year, was the second step, and now the atlantic region is to follow. the alde group in parliament supports this macro-regional approach and has also actively contributed to this resolution. it is a question of improving the protection of the seas and the environment, of course also maritime affairs and fisheries, but it is also a question of much more, above all of three pillars: firstly, cooperation between the member states so that synergies can be better exploited. secondly, the atlantic links the european member states and regions bordering the atlantic with transatlantic partners such as canada and the usa and with other neighbouring countries such as norway and iceland. thirdly, it is also about better linking the regional stakeholders. we should focus on bringing together and networking the cities and municipalities, the regions, the member states and above all citizens, civil society and also businesses, so that these actors can bring the framework, the macro-regional strategy, to life. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the resources available certainly offer untapped synergies and opportunities on which to build. the alde group sees this as an urgent need, because international trade is affected. goods from all over the world cross the atlantic to the european union. this trade must of course be environmentally sustainable. the atlantic also has large reserves of raw materials that could be exploited, but the environment must be protected in a sustainable way. we call on the commission to draw up and present a strategy as soon as possible.
mr president, tax and taxing is an extremely important topic when we talk about development policies. it is a crucial topic for policy coherence for development because without a proper tax system, without proper policies on tax havens, we will never be coherent in our development policies and at the moment we are not. therefore i very much welcome this report and i hope that tomorrow, you, the members of this house, will not water it down. we need to complement the commission communication, which has serious shortcomings, for example by not addressing problems within the oecd and by not addressing the impact of tax competition on tax revenues. if we want to comply with the lisbon treaty, if we want our development policies to be coherent, we need to take action now and i ask you to support this report in full.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs very warmly for their collegial cooperation on this report. it has become a very ambitious report. i would like to speak briefly about the points which are important, but i do not want to ignore the controversial points either. we have a huge protein gap in the european union: 80% of our plant protein needs are imported and the trend is unfortunately increasing. that means we're using about 20 million hectares of land in other countries, or moving 10 percent of our land to other countries, so to speak, to grow protein crops on it. one reason for this is the blair house agreement of the early 1990s, which has seriously damaged the competitiveness of european protein crops. that's why cheap soybeans have flooded our market. the decline in protein crops in the european union was 30% for legumes, and only 3% of the european area is now actually planted with protein crops, in germany it is even only 1%. production in europe has reached a critical point, with research and development being threatened particularly in european protein crops. political action is needed to re-promote protein crops in europe, otherwise we will be below a threshold which will ultimately endanger all protein crops in europe. we are also losing the positive effects of protein crops, especially in the design of meaningful crop sequences in agriculture. there is huge potential for european protein crop production. we have made it a point to establish a level playing field, that is to say, to call into question the blair house agreement and eventually to abolish it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is important for water and climate protection and biodiversity. i'll give you one example. leguminous vegetation is of great importance for the capture of co2. it can minimize the import or use of mineral nitrogen. we therefore want leguminous crops to be included as an integral part of future crop rotation in the common agricultural policy and in the first pillar. but we also want to reduce dependence on imports and thus ultimately ensure that european meat production is free of imports. europe has become the world's second largest importer. china is now the world's largest importer of protein, outstripping the european union. so we have a competitor in this area. if we now call this the central objective, we must be clear that certain points which were included in the report in the vote are to be called into question, namely that we are creating import relief for soya by calling into question zero tolerance. that is not in the report and it is even counterproductive to include it in the report! it is a question of promoting european protein crop production and not of facilitating imports. i want that clear. if we are serious about this report, we must vote consistently so that these points do not remain in the report, otherwise i would have - i admit this here openly - a problem with this report bearing my name.
member of the commission. − madam president, my best wishes on the occasion of international women’s day. i welcome the principles set by the rapporteur mr fernandes on budgetary vigour, especially as regards the administrative budgets of the european union. for me this is sure that this is the line to be taken under the present economic conditions in the european union. therefore, with this in mind, i asked my colleagues in the commission to be particularly sensitive to increases in administration and we can promise that our increase should be less than 1%. this means, given that there are some contractual obligations, that there are cuts for 2012 in the areas of information technology, meetings, conferences and mission costs, as well as in the area of studies and publication. i have written a letter to the heads of the other institutions and here is their response. i think this is really the line to be taken for 2011 as regards administrative expenditure. we have indications from the council that they are also to be very restrictive. the same principle should be applied as regards future enlargement. i think the estimates should be included in the budget when the formal decision on the date of accession is taken, in the form of an amending letter or amending budget. however, i have to remind you on this very occasion that administration only accounts for less than 6% of the european union budget, so this is quite a decent proportion. as for the operational expenditure, the european budget has its own internal logic. the programmes are gaining maturity with time, so we now have maturity of major programmes that started in 2007. the european budget is mainly about investment and not consumption and social transfers. on the one hand we should be very restrictive as regards administrative expenditure, but on the other hand we should understand the logic of the internal dynamics of european budgets, otherwise we will produce a lot of so-called ‘ral’ (reste à liquider), which constitute a mountain of unspent money, unspent commitments, and this is not in line with a decent budgetary procedure i therefore welcome once more the principles we can see in the report by mr fernandes. we are to hold discussions on the basis of guidelines on 30 march and i am looking forward to our meeting towards trialogue on 30 march.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to express my regret and criticism that neither the secretary-general of parliament nor the two vice-presidents responsible for parliament are present. we normally expect the commission to have its members present, so we should expect our leaders to be present. secondly, i would like to address the issue of building management. i am pleased that the kad project in luxembourg is moving forward and that it seems to be keeping costs under control or keeping to what was planned. when the expansion of the kad is completed, the merger of the staff should result in both efficiency and synergy gains and in annual cost reductions as a result of the abandonment of eight subsidiaries. this objective must be achieved because we need some of these funds for other things, as mr fernandes has pointed out. i consider the house of european history to be an essential project, since it will have a very large number of visitors who will be shown the meaning, the aim and the purpose of the european union in the context of and against the background of european history, and in a very good way. thirdly, i would like to make a clear request that staff be transferred to brussels, who are based in luxembourg but who have to work very often in brussels and therefore have to travel constantly, which is also a problem for members. this concerns only a few sub-sectors and it should be possible to consider relocating them for reasons of efficiency. fourthly, i think it is very good that the european parliament is only proposing moderate enlargements. the fact that others are making only minor additions should not be a reason for the edf to make massive additions. all institutions are called upon to take appropriate action in times of economic and financial difficulty!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank mr fernandes for this excellent report. the essential principles of good budgetary management are efficiency, economy and the responsible use of the funds entrusted to us in trustworthy hands. but what is always present in budgetary negotiations, and what we must prevent here too, is the emergence of new desires and the desire to stick to old things. we must distinguish between desires and needs. the need for the increase in the number of posts mentioned in the treaty of lisbon or required by the treaty of lisbon is certainly one of them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be a good thing if the secretary-general were here, as our colleague has said, to hear this. new departments - as mr vaughan has already said - are not necessary in the way they are if we use the synergy of this house wisely. we have competent heads in all the various directorates-general and i am sure we can put them together in a sensible way. the house of history, on which i agree with mrs hohlmeier, is a project which must also have a business plan. it is not a wish concert where everyone gets what he wants, but it must be based on resources and sound budgetary management. in conclusion, i would say that we should not make the mistake of refusing to invest in the future because of false thrift. what we are investing in now, for example in it equipment, can bring us a lot of savings in the coming years, in that saving is not yet a value in itself. it must also make sense and be reasonable with a view to the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is about the 2012 parliamentary budget and i would like to emphasise that from the greens' point of view it is about finding the right balance between limited and justified increases, which result mainly from the new powers of the lisbon treaty, but also about self-discipline and self-restraint in times of scarce public funds. the budget of the european parliament is always seen as the european parliament's calling card and also as a symbolic question: how do we deal with the austerity policy the needs of this policy in relation to ourselves? mr fernandes now uses two words, consolidation and containment. what i have heard very little of so far are real proposals on where he wants to cut and where funds should be cut. it is right to make parliament's administration more efficient, and i think there is a lot to be done. the house of european history: i am very much in favour of the concept. but it is also true that there must be clear business plans. if you want such a priority - and i say this again, in particular to mr fernandes - if you really take the words self-discipline and consolidation seriously, then you must also be prepared to make proposals for cuts elsewhere. if there are priorities because they are politically desirable, there must also be 'posteriorities' if we want to arrive at a consolidation budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. that is what i mean by the european parliament's calling card: limited growth, but also clear self-restraint!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. of course we have to talk about what costs should not be incurred or what should be saved in this budget. but i would ask you all very warmly to make the somewhat reflexive discussion about the agencies a little more concrete. why would you do that? because first of all the committee on budgetary control is constantly conducting this debate and also drawing attention to how we can improve the cooperation of the agencies and their governance. and because we are waiting for a special report from the european court of auditors on the agencies later this year, and then we will have a much more objective basis for this discussion, which is currently being conducted somewhat reflexively, particularly with regard to how the agencies are run and how we can possibly make these savings. the next keyword in the field of savings is building policy. in fact, when it comes to the european union's buildings, we can certainly raise resources. i personally have serious doubts about the real value of buying more buildings for the european parliament in brussels, the place where it works, because this strategy only makes sense if property prices in brussels continue to rise. the market is not giving it away right now. if property prices in the market do not rise, then the option of renting rather than buying is actually a sensible one, especially if you walk through the european quarter with your eyes open and see how much office space is actually available for rent in the area. this brings me to the house of european history. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament, and that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. this should change, and above all we should know how to cover the operating and follow-up costs of this facility.
member of the commission. − madam president, this is indeed a remarkable anniversary and it is a great responsibility to participate in this discussion. first of all, i wish to thank the rapporteurs from the committee on women’s rights and gender equality and the associated committee on employment and social affairs respectively for their report. this report is very timely because the issue it highlights has been on the agenda for a while, but it has become more pressing as a result of the impact of the financial and economic crisis on vulnerable groups in society. let me highlight some of the key elements in my employment and social policies that i believe will improve working opportunities and conditions for women. there are indeed urgent measures that the member states need to take in these areas. for instance, they need to reduce labour market segmentation by readjusting the balance in employment protection legislation between those workers on permanent contracts and those on time-limited, precarious contracts – which is so often the case for women. they also need to strike a better balance between work and private or family life and to remove other disincentives to participation in the workforce by second earners, who again are mostly women. it is important to increase the employment rate in the eu and the key challenge in this area is the participation in the labour market by all workers, both male and female. i believe that the european social fund will have to be better and more robustly used in the future to support the demand-side policies to open new opportunities for women, especially those returning to the labour market after childbirth. it is a source of great concern to the commission that over 80 million people are at risk of poverty in today’s european union. the member states have the main responsibility for fighting against poverty, but the union has a role to play. that is what some three-quarters – 74% – of our fellow europeans believe, according to the eurobarometer surveys. the flagship initiative, the european platform against poverty and social exclusion, includes proposals for practical measures to achieve the numerical poverty reduction target. the platform focuses on the continuing importance of active inclusion for people furthest from the labour market. as i have already pointed out, women make up an important component of that category. in 2012 the commission will present a communication assessing in depth the implementation of active inclusion strategies at national level. i mentioned that more than 80 million people are at risk of poverty in today’s european union. what is even more worrying is that over 20 million children are among them and the figure has not improved over time. helping to lift those children out of poverty means helping to lift their parents out of poverty too, in particular the single parents, who are mostly women. this calls for a multidimensional approach, covering employment policies to help parents find work, the design of tax benefit systems, and the provision of key services, such as housing, quality child care and education and protection of children’s rights. as foreseen in the platform, the commission intends to put forward a recommendation in 2012 on child poverty. it will outline common principles and effective monitoring tools to combat and prevent poverty in early life. providing the funding to meet those challenges is also crucial. almost a third of the european social fund’s allocation of eur 21.7 billion for the present programming period goes to measures to improve access to employment. in addition, almost eur 3 billion – 2.77 to be precise – from that allocation goes to supporting self-employment and business start-ups, and the beneficiaries are very often women. in addition, the european progress microfinance facility has recently been established to support job creation and self-employment. the facility provides loans to people who have lost their jobs and want to start up or develop their own small businesses. it pays special attention to women and young people. a budget of eur 100 million has been made available over four years but can be increased to more than eur 500 million in the joint initiative with the international financial institutions. over the last ten years, eu cooperation under the open method of coordination on social inclusion and social protection has helped to raise awareness and promote the fight against poverty and social exclusion. the european platform against poverty and social exclusion set the frame to reduce poverty across the whole range of policy areas. let us do our utmost to make sure it achieves its aim.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. as the author of the opinion on the gender equality report, i focused on the labour market. the difference in salaries is unfortunately still 17% and unfortunately women are still not represented everywhere in the management and supervisory boards. there is an urgent need for action! we can no longer afford to waste the potential of girls, young women and women in this society in this way. we have a good education, the state invests in these young women and mothers. we should really make progress here and encourage companies to finally put their words into action. i therefore welcome the fact that the companies are now really taking a step towards a voluntary quota. but on the other hand, when we look at the gender report, we must not forget that men are also at a disadvantage. boys in particular do not always have the opportunity to develop in schools. there are deficits in the area of care and childcare; men can also take action here. that is a task we should be committed to. everyone, regardless of gender, should have the opportunity to find their purpose and lead their lives.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. a hundred years ago, women demanded the right to vote and to stand for election, and today we continue to fight for equality for women in many areas, especially in the workplace and in careers, but also in terms of pay for work and the right to benefits, especially for old age. this doesn't just reveal the gender pay gap. despite increasing participation in working life, women are more at risk of poverty than men, as shown by statistics from all 27 member states of the european union. there are many reasons for this feminization of poverty. i can only comment on one of them for the sake of time: the increase in precarious jobs discriminates against women in several ways. over 30% of women work part-time, compared with only 7.4% of men. studies show that even in these parttime jobs, women are paid dramatically less than men for the same amount of time and the same amount of work. this reduces the chances of integration and career progression. the right to pension is reduced poverty is preprogrammed and the right to an individual independent life path is reduced. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed, and has recently introduced a new system of social security for the unemployed. we do not want to wait a hundred years to find out that it is the natural right of women to be able to shape their lives independently of male decisions, despite having children!
i have to say, madam president, 100 years of women's rights reason to celebrate and thank and reason to keep fighting. we have a report on women and poverty; the main reason for this is the gender pay gap. it has already been said that since 1957 equal pay has been enshrined in the treaties of rome. but the wage gap is still 17.5% in europe today, and in germany it is as high as 23%. in 2008, this house passed a report on equal pay, thanks to the excellent work of mrs bauer. it called on the commission to take legislative initiatives to limit wage inequality. nothing has happened since then! and, commissioner reding, all you have done is to proclaim friday, march 4th, march 5th, as european equal pay day. i'm glad you noticed before the day was over. we're tired of hearing empty press releases. we don't want any more nice words from you. we want you to finally take action so that the 100th anniversary of the treaties of rome is not still a day when the pay gap between women and men is more than 0%. we want equal pay now! i would like to know from him whether he believes that in england and europe only 3% of women 'know how to do their business'. that would explain why there are so few women on supervisory boards. i don't think that's the case. we need a quota! mrs reding, you said that companies must commit themselves to appointing women by next year. do you want the pledges to be in place by next year or do you want the companies to have appointed women by next year? i hear you want second chances.
the joint debate is closed. the vote on the two reports will take place at 12 noon today, 8 march. the celebrations for the 100th anniversary of women's day will follow. all of us in this room, from parliament, the commission and the council, who are women, will be asked to take a joint photo after the ceremony. i hope that all the colleagues in the offices will hear this now and come to the plenary. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. today, on the occasion of the 100th international women's day, as we look at the report by mariya nedelcheva, it is time to put words into action. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised. these include mandatory quotas for women on boards and at all other levels, the vigorous fight against precarious employment, which affects women much more than men, the improvement of career prospects for women already in school by systematically broadening the range of career choices, the prohibition of financial disadvantage for women in taxation and income, statutory gender equality schemes in companies and sectors to promote women, and regular review and reporting on progress made and whether progress has been made in europe. let me conclude by saying that after 100 years of women's day, we women will no longer be satisfied with lip service. we want binding legal rules and we want to see the recognition that women's work is a crucial contribution to our prosperity.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the first two articles of the united nations universal declaration of human rights establish the equality of all human beings. it says: 'all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. they are endowed with reason and knowledge and are to meet one another in a spirit of brotherhood. that's a wonderful line. but we have not yet achieved this, even a hundred years after the first international women's day: there is still no question of equality between men and women! yes, we have achieved a great deal in europe. today, we no longer put women's legal freedom first. we have achieved this freedom for the most part. i would like to thank the feminist women and their activities in recent years. today, it is all about freedom in practice, men making the question of the compatibility of work and family their own male issue, that it is taken for granted that women are heads of corporations or governments. it is fantastic to see how the freedom movements in north africa also look at us women in europe. they're looking at us because we have to take the lead. the key is to keep in mind our goal: the freedom to live life as we see fit. because then equality will be a given and international women's day will change from a day of remembrance to a day of celebration of freedom!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the situation we find ourselves in does not call for a holiday, but for a new understanding of the realisation of genuine equality. it is precisely on this 100th anniversary that we as women should look back and take stock. my bottom line is this: equality as a noble principle in constitutions and human rights declarations, that's what it has to be! but to make it happen, we need laws and rules. i think that includes the quota. if we look at the european institutions, it is no better than the top of business. women in management positions - really at the top - are hard to find. to do that, mrs reding, to do that, mr barroso, we need a real, hard quota system. i would have liked you to have taken an honest look at the lack of equal opportunities for women in the european institutions, because then you would have known how necessary this quota is. (applause from the centre) i think it's a shame that women today, with their high qualifications, where leadership decisions are made, where the course is set, still have no place. the quota is the instrument! mrs. reding, on this 100th anniversary of women's rights, we ask you to: we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report. i do not know why this has not already been mentioned in mr barroso's speech.
i have to say, madam president, i can tell mr gauzès that we will withdraw this draft alternative resolution. i have recommended this to my group for a very simple reason: the following amendment, which has been signed by 120 members from all the political groups, shows that the discussion on a financial transaction tax is not about a socialist or a conservative or an epp or a green proposal. it is about making an institutional proposal, sending an institutional signal that this house is able to say, across the boundaries of the political groups: 'we want the private sector to do its part in dealing with the burden of the crisis.' this is not socialist, this is not the epp, this is our common will. if we want to express this institutionally today, this is a great success for the european parliament. that is why we are withdrawing this motion. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the report calls for the 80% protein deficit in the european union to be reduced by promoting european protein crop production. the report is not about having a debate on zero tolerance. it is not about making it easier to import genetically modified soya. i therefore ask you to vote against paragraphs 3 and 9. these would change the character of the report completely. if these two points are accepted, i regret to withdraw my name.
madam president, since the vote has resulted in the amendment of the report, i would ask that my name be removed from the report. i'd like to return the report. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is always a question of preserving health first and restoring it second. the foundation is education in all member states. this includes the links between healthy eating and exercise, and simply good general education. that is basically the responsibility of the member states. europe should promote the exchange of experience in the various fields of health education. i voted against the report despite many good suggestions. i am quite clearly against paragraphs 25, 26 and 29. the important ethical and moral decisions of the member states, such as reproductive technologies and abortion, are not included. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
trade in agricultural products based on fair competition is one of the most important drivers of economic development in developing countries. it is also necessary to reduce poverty and prevent food crises. agriculture is the backbone of many european regions and countries, especially the new member states, where farmers receive significantly lower direct payments than those in the older member states, and these regions also have to compete with latin american producers who do not have to meet the same high quality standards and benefit from reduced customs duties. this situation is seriously reducing the competitiveness and profitability of our farmers and i have therefore supported this report, which calls for a review of the european union's trade policy, regular evaluation, the application of uniform standards and the opening of markets to agricultural products from third countries, provided that our farmers are compensated for the losses caused by increased imports of agricultural products from third countries. thank you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the häusling report. protein is essential for a healthy diet. europe must take action to ensure its own protein supply. all possibilities must be considered here, from support for research and breeding to information and training of farmers on the benefits of good old-fashioned practices and fruit sequence. we must not forget the good principle of the circular economy. the commission must review the ban on feeding animal protein to non-ruminants, taking into account the prohibition on cannibalism, with regard to the possible use of animal protein for animal meal for pigs and poultry. the treatment of these substances must be carried out in accordance with the strict rules in force for the protection of human health and the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i agreed to the report after the committee had succeeded in balancing the assumptions and miscalculations to a certain extent. the report is critical and highlights ways in which the eu can better organise and coordinate its response to pandemics in the future.
in writing. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the tax treatment of companies. this idea has now been generally accepted by the european parliament. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. it is not clear whether and when a proposal will be made by the commission. we are still a long way from a legislative procedure. the commission is currently only preparing a feasibility study. a framework condition of this implementation study is that competitiveness must not be affected by the financial transaction tax. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the subject of the own-initiative report was not only the financial transaction tax, but also the smooth functioning of competition policy in the eu and the introduction of a carbon tax modelled on vat, which is to be levied on every product in the internal market. we reject this carbon tax. this is an environmental policy demand of the conservatives who want a mix of nuclear and renewable energy. nuclear energy would not be subject to this tax. we are calling for a tax on energy inputs, including nuclear energy, through a combined primary energy/co2 tax. we did not vote for the report because it combined the good idea of a transaction tax with measures which would put even more pressure on people in europe, but we abstained in the final vote.
in writing. − the report highlights good approaches, such as a financial transaction tax that would bring €200 billion to the eu budget at just 0.05%. we are now leaving this money, which only makes speculation more difficult, but not impossible, to lie idle. the interesting question will be what the council of ministers will do with this initiative. we have a long way to go.
in writing. - i rejected the report because it backs abortion. man is a creature of god and should not make himself the judge of life and death. there are no compromises of any kind here. even though i'm not in a majority in this position, i'm not changing my mind and sacrificing lives to the zeitgeist. i'm equally adamant against preimplantation diagnosis.
in writing. - the world's agriculture and in particular the european agricultural policy are of major importance for food and development policy. it is therefore important to strengthen and develop international trade in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is essential that the high european standards also apply to imported products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not compromised. we need and want a free exchange of goods. but without fair competition as a basic prerequisite, this will not be achieved.
in writing. − with the report on the protein deficit in the eu: how to solve the long-standing problem? the agriculture committee has identified some very good solutions to reduce the protein deficit in the eu, such as the revision of the blair house agreement with the us, which allows duty-free imports of protein crops from the us. the introduction of protein crops in the crop rotation, the strengthening of research and consultancy, and the expansion of seed development and protein production infrastructures are also to be mentioned. unfortunately, a majority of the members of alde, ecr and epp have tabled amendments which contradict this clear position of parliament. they call for facilitating imports of protein crops, especially soya, including genetically modified organisms (gmos) not authorised in the eu. these amendments were unfortunately confirmed by a narrow majority in the european parliament's plenary vote. i am convinced, however, that the demand for increased imports of gmo soybeans is counterproductive to the real objective of strengthening our own supply in the eu. this attitude is not in line with the wishes of a clear majority of people in europe who oppose the use of gmos in agriculture. i regret to note the voting behaviour and have decided to return the report as rapporteur.
in writing. − in the european union, plant protein production has declined dramatically in recent years. the result is that we are now dependent on imports to a worryingly high degree. i therefore thank the rapporteur for calling on the commission to take measures in the medium to long term to finally tackle this problem. but until the european union is able to provide for itself to a sufficient extent, we should also consider changes to our import regulations. for example, a technical solution for low levels of gmos in imported protein products could ensure that the european market has enough soybeans.
in writing. - to paragraph 66: the wording 'easy access' is too broad in my view. on the other hand, the possibility of abortion must be left open.
in writing. - i rejected the report because abortion is again being made acceptable in the health sector. otherwise, it's a collection of clichés.
the next item is the statement by the president of the commission on the preparation of the euro summit of 11 march 2011 (2011/2615/rsp)).
president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in one of those great periods when history is accelerating. on our doorstep, across the mediterranean, a wind of freedom was blowing. this is such an important and urgent matter that i would first of all like to inform you that the college has just approved the commission's contribution to assist the countries of the southern mediterranean in their transition process and to inject a new dynamism into our relations with our mediterranean neighbourhood. i will present this contribution with the high representative/vice-president of the commission at the extraordinary european council next friday. men and women on the southern shore of the mediterranean, especially young people, are demonstrating their rejection of authoritarian regimes and their aspirations for political freedom and social justice. although we recognize the extreme complexity of the situation, its challenges and difficulties, no ambiguity can be envisaged on the part of the european union. we stand with those who are demanding political freedom and respect for human dignity. the european union is not going to be ambiguous. a regime that shoots at its own people has no place in the concert of nations. we propose to these peoples a 'partnership for democracy and shared prosperity' based on three pillars: democratic transformation, engagement with civil society and development in solidarity. we are aware of the challenges ahead. saying no to dictatorships does not automatically bring about the rule of law and democracy. the paths that lead to it are never easy. they can be a little bit of a pain in the ass, but they're always demanding. but europe must stand with those who aspire to political freedom and social justice. ladies and gentlemen, i would now like to turn to the other meeting on friday 11 march, the informal summit of the euro-zone member states. the crisis has shown us how interdependent our economies are. it has highlighted certain structural weaknesses. this is one of the reasons why we need to strengthen our economic governance. the commission has long advocated the need for greater coordination of national economic policies and the strengthening of governance in europe. we propose that the economic pillar of our economic and monetary union be further developed. we had highlighted this in our report on the ten years of the euro, emu@10. but the truth is that some governments were more than reluctant to such a development. today, everyone recognizes that genuine european economic governance is a necessity, an imperative that the markets are constantly reminding us of. in the conclusions of the work of the task force chaired by the president of the european council, the member states reached a very broad consensus on the commission's proposals for enhanced economic governance - proposals which are currently being discussed by this parliament and the council. we also agreed to implement the european semester, which will help to broaden economic governance, including upstream not only budgetary policies but also economic policies and structural reforms in each member state. it is in this context of strengthened economic governance that the idea of a 'competitiveness pact' has recently emerged, calling on euro area member states to make additional efforts, largely within their national competences, to become even more competitive. it is true that while all the economies within the european union are highly interdependent, those in the euro area are particularly so. the competitiveness gap is a real problem for countries sharing a common currency. their competitiveness and the convergence of their economies are essential factors in ensuring the viability of a strong and stable euro area, to the benefit of the european union as a whole. however, it must be admitted that this idea has raised some concerns: fears of a two-speed europe (the euro zone and the others), the risk of losing sight of certain aspects of economic recovery which are just as important as competitiveness, or even the possible questioning of the community approach. these are all legitimate questions and they must be answered unequivocally. it's a matter of mutual trust and credibility. ladies and gentlemen, i was also somewhat surprised to have to remind the last european council, on 4 february, that any specific initiative for competitiveness and for the euro area must, of course, be in accordance with the treaty. in its conclusions, the european council decided that 'in the light of the new framework for economic governance, the heads of state or government will take further steps to bring a new quality to the coordination of economic policies in the euro area in order to improve competitiveness, which would lead to a higher degree of convergence without undermining the single market'. and i was very pleased to see that an explicit reference to the need for these additional steps to be taken 'in accordance with the treaty' was finally added to these conclusions. you may think it goes without saying, but it's better when you say it. the european council has therefore given the president of the european council a mandate to conduct, in close cooperation with the president of the european commission, consultations with the euro area member states in order to define the practical means for moving forward. these consultations have made it clear that member states are generally in favour of the community approach. now i would like to be very clear about the principles which, in the commission's view, must necessarily be adhered to for such a competitiveness pact, which it might be better to call a 'convergence and competitiveness pact' since it involves measures aimed at reducing differences within the euro area, and indeed within the european union. the first principle is that this pact must be implemented under the conditions laid down in the treaty and within the existing system of economic governance. we can in this way be sure of a truly community approach. because history, and particularly the experience of the stability and growth pact, has shown that it is only through the community method that we can produce results which are democratically legitimized at european level, which are binding and which can be controlled. the pact must, of course, also respect the role of the commission. this is essential in order to guarantee objectivity and independence in monitoring the efforts of member states, the integrity of the single market and of the entire community acquis, and the clearance between the initiatives taken in the euro area and those pursued in the european union as a whole. i will also insist on the role of the european parliament in monitoring the convergence and competitiveness pact because the commission will, of course, keep the european parliament fully informed. the pact must also remain open to other member states which might wish to take part in it and which are not members of the euro area. i think it is important to avoid any kind of stratification in our union; that stratification will go against the very principles of solidarity that are at the core of our common project. to justify such a pact which involves national measures it must contribute added value to what has already been laid down in the context of economic governance proposals put forward. i would remind you that under article 121 of the treaty, member states must coordinate their national economic policies. such a pact must also take care not to adversely affect the integrity of the single market and should even help to enhance it. in addition it must respect social dialogue and link measures on competitiveness to our central goals, which are growth and jobs exactly as we have stated in the europe 2020 agenda. competitiveness is indeed an essential element for our economies. it is a necessary condition for entrenching job-creating growth. it is therefore important to ensure that this pact delivers real added value and does not take us away from the essential goals of growth and employment. my bottom line is growth and employment. that is why i emphasise growth, the kind of inclusive sustainable growth which lies at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy. that is why i insist so much on the social dimension, since the efforts required must be shared fairly. the commission is continuing to work on a proposal on the taxation of financial activities. similarly, if budgetary consolidation and structural reforms are essential for competitiveness, investment in sectors of importance for the future like research and innovation is just as necessary. we should also bear in mind that this pact is but one part of our overall response to ensure the stability of the euro area. progress must be made in all the other areas of our response, i.e. in enhancing the effective financing capacity of the existing european financial stability fund and broadening its scope, in preparing the establishment of a permanent mechanism from 2013 and in implementing over the coming months tighter stress tests for banks. all this will contribute to greater transparency, greater confidence and greater credibility. the convergence and competitiveness pact could thus make a significant contribution if we interpret it as one measure among others within the framework of all the efforts which have been undertaken to ensure the stability of the euro area and which we hope will start to take effect as of march. it could constitute a major additional effort towards fair and sustainable growth in europe if it is coherent with the community system of governance. if that is the case, if this measure is actually implemented following a community approach, as the commission and this parliament wish, then i believe that the convergence and competitiveness pact will deliver added value and could help to strengthen the economic pillar of economic and monetary union. that is what this parliament and the commission want. the commission will spare no effort to that end. i thank you for your attention.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! we have been talking for weeks about a paper by angela merkel and nicolas sarkozy that supposedly did not exist. nevertheless, a press conference was held during the european council on this non-existent document. now, there was the paper, and there was the content. the contents of the paper have since been lost to us. the essential elements of this paper will not become reality. nevertheless, there will be a result in the end, namely the extension of the life-saving umbrella. a nonexistent paper presented in a fake press conference with missing content leads to an expansion of the life-saving screen. that's good! but the situation is kafkaesque. that is certainly not the way to save the euro. i think that is a very good point. i liked it because you showed the social imbalance of these proposals. i 'm a little surprised sometimes . the federal republic of germany with its federal chancellor is demanding, like mr sarkozy, measures which the federal republic of germany itself has not taken in this form. the greek budget, all the budgets, everywhere, are to be cut. do you agree, mr. deer? what has the federal republic of germany done in its deepest crisis? it has created a so-called scrappage premium, i.e. a premium funded from the state budget to stabilise the automobile industry. the short-time pay system, which has kept unemployment in germany under control, was a state interventionist measure. why should other countries not be able to take similar measures under their own specific conditions? moody's, that rating agency, is ranking greece these days below belarus and egypt. you have to wonder if the lilies are starting to bloom. i don't know, man. still under vietnam! and this film is always shown three days before the european council! this is what is done every three days before a european council. but you're referring to these people. you know what moody's says? moody's says we're downgrading because the country is no longer able to invest with the cuts and therefore cannot generate economic growth. so let's discuss the haircut. look at me, let me tell you from an expert's mouth, a haircut doesn't solve all your problems. on the contrary, what comes out at the end of the haircut? the creditworthiness of a country is to be increased by telling those who are supposed to give the loans that they will lose all depreciation. where does this end again? by the life raft! it is therefore sensible to extend the rescue package and to try to stabilise the euro by all means now. that is why the pact is sensible as such. but it is not balanced in its content. if your ideas, mr president of the commission, are incorporated into this pact and if the economic and social balance which you have just proposed is achieved, then the pact is on the right track. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and also for the work he has done. i do not want to go on spreading the word about the institutional question. institutionally, the whole concept was wrong. if it is now structured in retrospect so that everything that comes out of it is placed with the body responsible for it, that is, the commission, which would also guarantee democratic legitimacy through the involvement of the european parliament, then that is fine. so, bad start, a little bumpy on the way there, the life raft extends, that's good. the fdp is also bought, also good. madam president, your party will certainly support this in germany, where we have also won, and if we call the pact what it is now being called, the pact for the euro, then we may end up doing quite well.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i do not need to say anything now about the embarrassing background of the competitiveness pact. it was bizarre to hear that the paper did not exist, but in the halls of the council in brussels this paper was distributed everywhere. i have already said in brussels that it had late socialist or late communist features, as was denied in the council buildings. i believe that what we have been experiencing in europe for months is not so much a currency crisis as a crisis in the ability of our national governments to assume a real collective responsibility in the crisis and to take collective measures to get out of it. if we now stabilise the crisis mechanism - however we have managed to do this - then we have taken a step forward. but i would say that if you look at greece today, you also see how deceptive it can be to think that we have already got the crisis under control. in greece, it is also becoming clear that the unilateral nature of the measures, the sole orientation towards austerity measures and austerity, is not working. the country must also be able to invest. when a country like greece cuts spending so much, it needs to know where the revenue is coming from. i am very irritated that in the run-up to this week's european council and in council announcements in 14 days' time, germany is saying that there will be no talks with germany on conditions for greece and on the necessary changes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. economic union - if we succeed in doing so, as mr verhofstadt has said - requires not only the decision to take certain consolidation measures but also a willingness to show genuine solidarity. greece has more to expect than we have given so far! i fully agree with martin schulz and the rapporteur, and i say this explicitly on behalf of all those who have been working on this subject for months in my group: the community method is not just anything. we need real, comprehensible decision-making processes in brussels so that the citizens of greece, denmark, germany and spain can trust us. if we were to actually design this 'closed shop', as is also the case in the competitiveness pact, in which some heads of government are again making a few remarks, we would lose the debate on trust in the european union. that is what the crisis is becoming more and more about. i hope the lord will send down brains from heaven and that this council will act with more reason than before. let me say one last thing, mr barroso, because you have mentioned sustainable growth. i cannot understand why an energy commissioner in brussels at this time says that ambitious climate protection means that we want to deindustrialise europe. the german environment minister was in brussels 14 days ago and presented a study which forecasts six million jobs for the european union if we set the climate target at 30%. you'd have sustainable growth. i would like to ask you to stop mr oettinger.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr barroso, i am pleased to note that you have taken the social question seriously and have advocated social equality. that's what we're gonna need. i do not have to repeat much of what my colleagues have already said, and i agree with that. i am very sceptical about this pact that merkel and sarkozy have put forward. why would you do that? because you don't really know why they submitted it. that it doesn't apply is another matter entirely. but they're smart strategists. i can't buy that it just happens, but i think they mean it the way it says it. and that's the part where i'd check it out again. i'm very serious about that. if you think that this wage indexation clause is an appropriate method, i am very sceptical. increasing the retirement age can also be called, in plain language, a pension reduction. the debt brake will be extremely difficult, is also very difficult for countries like germany. i can imagine that ireland or greece will be in very big trouble. i am a little skeptical about what this tailor-made solution is. i expect transparency. you will have the support of parliament here if you also help to ensure that a little more transparency is created and that these games are not played behind parliament's back. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the european union. we are ready to talk to you about a coordinating european economic government, an economic government that deserves the name, that is democratically constituted and that can help to create a sustainable and social europe. we are also prepared to discuss changes to the treaty, for example a social progress clause. we are not going to be able to do that. then parliament can also accompany this process. we can't do this without information!
i have to say, madam president, i assume you do not know this, but i have a question for you, mr farage, because you constantly refer to belgium as a non-existent nation - you have already said this to mr van rompuy and now you have again addressed mr verhofstadt in this context: do you know on what basis the belgian state was founded?
i have to say, madam president, it'll only take 30 seconds. i note that the representative of a party calling itself the united kingdom independence party does not know that the kingdom of belgium was founded at the suggestion of the united kingdom!
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commissioner has just made it very clear: turkey and the european union need each other, we are important neighbours, we are allies in nato, and many people of turkish origin live in the member states of the european union. we must treat each other with respect. i am very much in favour of visa facilitation for business people and students, just as you said. i am very much in favour of turkey being brought much closer to the structures of the common security and defence policy. i would like cyprus to lift its blockade here. if we look at north africa, turkey is a model for many countries in the region. yeah, that's all very good, actually. and then we look at the admission process. then we find that many chapters are blocked. it's very difficult to start a new chapter. there are only three chapters left, and the competition chapter is about to open. and then, when the last chapters are opened? is there a lack of communication between turkey and the european union? this can't be happening! we must therefore think very carefully about how we are going to proceed with the accession process, whether we can continue with the procedure we have here today, namely parliament commenting on the commission's progress report with a resolution, or not. our 2010 report is critical, very critical, but it is critical-constructive. the fundamental rights - especially for liberals - are clearly mentioned: freedom of the press, freedom of opinion, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, student demonstrations, trade union rights, freedom of religion. for years we have been promising improvements in religious freedom, but far too little has happened! the arrest of ahmet şık and nedim şener, the interference with the work of political foundations in turkey - all this is of great concern to us. that is the first copenhagen criterion! that is really the key, that is the political criterion. if turkey does not make progress on its internal democratic constitution, then i see real problems in one or other place, quite apart from the blockade in the council. diplomatically, we need turkey, we need each other. democracy: there is still a lot to be done, especially in turkey.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr watson, your historical comparisons are as wrong as they can be. the akp should not be compared with the party which established democracy in government and the rule of law in post-hitler germany. this is truly shocking, especially since it was done in the 1950s in cooperation and coalition with the liberals! i am in favour of turkey being closely linked to the european union. turkey is strategically important to us, but not at any price: firstly, we cannot abolish the conditions for accession, which include freedom of expression, an independent judiciary, minority rights and freedom of religion. this is clearly stated in the commission's reports and by mrs oomen-ruijten. secondly, the european union's capacity to receive refugees must not be jeopardized. we'll have to find other ways to do it. thirdly, it is up to turkey not to obstruct this process, to finally fulfil its commitments, for example in the field of the ankara protocol. turkey is able to demonstrate that integration within the european union is possible. but if mr erdoğan, in a speech in germany, says that turks with german citizenship have a duty of loyalty to turkey in the first place, then we have a serious problem with regard to integration! this is an expression of a certain way of thinking that is created by it. i therefore believe that turkey is not yet ready, but that turkey is invited to cooperate constructively with us in the framework of the berlin plus agreements and on other issues, in order to create closer ties. the example of mor gabriel is part of this question. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. those who live in germany and want to return to their home country naturally have their national language as their first language. but those who want to become german citizens and stay in germany permanently must first learn german so that they have a chance to get an education in schools and thus succeed in their careers and integrate. the first question is the language question. we have to distinguish between people who are there as guests on holiday for the winter season and people who want to stay here permanently. this is the difference in terms of integration. they cannot compare holidaymakers from mallorca with those who want to stay permanently in a country with the corresponding nationality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. since the start of the negotiations, many promises have been made but very little concrete progress has been made. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. that is an essential element for me. turkey must commit itself to a strict separation of state and religion and to accepting non-islamic religions. the monastery of mor gabriel is a prime example of this problem. i would like to make it clear that the member states of the european union are under an obligation to insist strongly on respect for universal human rights and in particular religious freedom in all negotiations with turkey.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, we are negotiating with turkey on eu membership and nothing else and i want that membership too! i welcome the reforms that the turkish government has undertaken in the last year. but turkey must also finally honour its commitments and implement the ankara protocol in order to allow the negotiations to continue, and it must not always unilaterally blame the eu or cyprus for the impasse, as you, mr erdoğan, are so fond of doing. the arrests of critical journalists must finally be stopped! ahmet şık, nedim şener and others must be protected from the arbitrariness of the judiciary. these are also prerequisites for opening chapter 23. mr erdoğan, you should find clear words for this and not, as in düsseldorf, polemicise against the integration of your countrymen and spread your pan-turkish worldview! we expect you to do that. there is no doubt that the eu must also play its part in the success of the negotiations and become receptive. both sides have their homework to do. but one thing is clear, the ball is now in your court, you're in control.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. to put it simply, we are talking about a single, binding eu strategy, not 27 different strategies in the member states. only if we arrive at such a unified strategy can and will the roma and sinti living in the eu be treated as equal eu citizens. what's the matter? it is about strictly maintaining freedom of movement for all. it is about the immediate abolition of all roma special schools and - i will put it this way - the end of apartheid against the roma in this our europe! it is about equal access to education, to health care, to social services. and this is not a mercy, but a legal claim! we in the gue reject a special policy for roma and sinti in principle, because we need a policy which is inclusive in its approach and at the same time compensates for disadvantages that roma and sinti have, for example in taking up employment, in establishing themselves or in using eu funds. but i would also like to say that all this will not work unless we take action to combat racism and the stigmatisation of roma and sinti throughout europe. we must see this as a central european task and fight discrimination ruthlessly. so let us not tolerate duplicity in our member states and in the eu and let us speak with one voice!
i have to say, madam president, i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. it is good that you have brought the matter to the attention of the scientific committee. i'm glad to hear it. the question remains, however, how to explain to european citizens that they must leave a health hazard for their children in their household, which is required by the eu. you have kids, you know how it is. something's going to break. my colleague leichtfried from austria and i are very excited about this. how can you make it clear that there is something dangerous here? a learning ability you are not responsible for the decision you made then, you can also show learning ability without losing your face is not given; you could have said yes, at least for private households we are withdrawing this ban. can't you reconsider that?
member of the commission. − madam president, the essential thing, and the necessary condition, is to stick to the targets of fiscal consolidation and implement structural reforms with full determination, in line with the memorandum. moreover, as i said in my previous reply, it is essential for greece to embark on a very ambitious programme of privatisation which will help reduce the debt burden. it is also very important, in the context of the comprehensive strategy to be decided this march in the european union, that the member states look at the issue of debt sustainability. i can only encourage the member states to decide to extend the loan maturities of loans to greece as well as to revisit the pricing policy for these loans.
member of the commission. − the global financial and economic crisis has negatively impacted on bilateral trade between the eu and the eastern partner countries. overall, trade between the eu and six eastern partner countries declined between 2008 and 2010 by 20%. it must be recalled that the eastern partnership started being implemented when the financial crisis was in full swing. its launching summit took place on 7 may 2009. in this early period working structures were created and some first meetings of the multilateral platforms were being held. the eastern partnership was simply too young to soften the negative effects of the financial and economic crisis. as for the role of the black sea synergy on trade with the eu, it can be said that it has been negligible as the black sea synergy initiative is a regional cooperation framework, not a trade arrangement. the south caucasus countries, individually or as a group, have not played any particular role in the development of trade between the eu and the eastern partnership countries. preparations for future negotiations of a bilateral, deep and comprehensive free trade area are ongoing with georgia and armenia, while the trade provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement with azerbaijan are currently being upgraded.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a precise answer. i would like to ask you, mr president, whether you think that the european union should be able to take part in the negotiations with the countries of the south caucasus, and whether you think that the european union should be able to take part in the negotiations with the countries of the south caucasus, and if so, what are the reasons for this?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the present report sets out a clear position of the european parliament. i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs who contributed to this report and the authors of the opinions of the committees which have contributed to it. we have succeeded in putting a clear message together, commissioner, that we want to put industrial policy more at the centre of the political arena. for good reason! the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council in the form of a regulation. because the competitors on this planet are specifically serving this field, industrial policy, if i think of the united states, china or even brazil and india. thirdly, there are sustainability challenges, both in terms of the climate and in terms of the economic and social base. it is therefore right and important that we put industrial policy at the centre of the political arena. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. we do not want to see environmental, trade or competition policy first and then, in a second step, align it with the interests of european industry. on the contrary, we must define the other policies in the light of the strategic interests of a sustainable industrial policy. secondly, mr commissioner, there is also a need for greater coordination with the industrial policies of the member states. i therefore ask you - and we have said so in the report - to use the second paragraph of article 173 to coordinate industrial policy more closely with the member states so that we can all really be on the same page. this includes, of course, some substantive priorities, certainly at the horizontal level, in particular innovation policy, throughout the value chain. we must succeed in promoting the entire economic chain from basic research to market application and bring the best solutions to the market for our society. we also need to be more resource-conscious. just saying it's important is not enough. we need to put in place strong legislation to significantly increase resource productivity. in industry, labour costs account for 20% and resource costs for 40%. this is a starting point for action, also on the question of raw materials. mobile phones, as we all have them, contain rare earths and metals that are hardly recycled. this is a starting point for creating jobs and strengthening the competitiveness of european industry. one last point in this context: innovation and resource productivity do not come by themselves, but also depend on the colleagues who help shape it. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. if we organise this, i am not afraid that we will also have future-oriented jobs in industry in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. thank you, commissioner, for your clear commitment to a european industrial policy. i look at my colleague for a long time and think: what a lot of fuss there was about an own-initiative report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. yes, it can only be done through an integrated and sustainable policy! yes, that is why we need research and innovation at the heart of our strategy! we therefore need a regulatory framework to promote innovation and sustainability at the same time. that was the great challenge of your report, that we should strike the right balance between environmental objectives and economic competitiveness, while leaving out protectionism. i look to mrs grossetête, because the french always want to bring in a little protectionism. we want to encourage small and mediumsized enterprises, to promote a european patent, to prevent the theft of knowledge, especially to china, and we want to reduce the burdens on our european industry caused by bureaucracy, so we want to concentrate on reducing bureaucracy. mr lange, we have done very well in the report, thanks to your hard work. but this report can only be a first step. we must now link the concept of industrial policy - which is hard to come by in many member states, especially in germany, where it has always been a term that people did not like to use - with the pact for competitiveness which will be presented to the heads of state and government in the coming weeks to safeguard the eurozone. if we cannot do that, we have a problem, and we must therefore coordinate the issues of cohesion, industry, trade, research and innovation, but also social, climate and environmental protection. the recent example of e10 in germany shows that this is not the case. it's about the blending of bioethanol with gasoline. we have set ourselves a grand strategy as the eu, the 20-20-20 targets, and we have told the member states: now do it! the member states, and germany in particular, have taken part in the decisionmaking process and have welcomed all this. when it comes to implementation at home, tax incentives are suddenly cut and the consumer goes on strike! if we do not take the consumers with us, as is happening in germany with the e10 example, then climate protection policy combined with industrial policy is not feasible! we have to take the consumers with us, that's the message. that is why i wish the industrial policy project all the best!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the report by mr lange has been slightly blown up by the enthusiasm of the many colleagues who have taken part in the debate. it now contains almost everything and in some cases the opposite. i believe that this report is an important step forward, because in the past it was often the case that you had to be either french or at least a leftist statist to be in favour of industrial policy. for everyone else, it was largely taboo. we now have the new situation where there is something of a basic consensus that we must have industrial policy in europe and that we must have it jointly at european level. i think that is a significant step forward and i am also grateful to mr tajani for having made that point so clearly. we must not continue to pretend - and i agree with mrs grossetête - that industrial policy is what happens more or less by chance at the end of our free trade policy, but we must turn the whole thing upside down - not with statist illusions, not with the idea that the state is directly regulating economic activity. the state must create a reasonable framework for promoting innovation, and in particular eco-innovation, in which these developments are also driven by exploiting competition, but we do not want either statism or protectionism. a strong european industry in the future will only be possible if we take the task of eco-innovation at central level seriously. and so, in conclusion, mr vice-president, i am very grateful to you for saying that sustainability and competitiveness are not opposites, but must be on the same level and work together!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank mr lange and the shadow rapporteurs for their work. it has succeeded in translating into a report the insight we all gained during the crisis, namely that industry is obviously more important than some people thought, and in bringing industrial policy back to the european parliament's agenda. the fact that it only happens at night is a disadvantage. this is a subject of such importance that it should be discussed at other times. the issue of industrial policy is not - some colleagues have said this - that the state should have an industrial policy, but that we should set the right framework, that is, not that we should determine the content, that we should distinguish between good and bad industry, but that we should create the opportunities for industry to develop, have a framework, and that we should also focus on those areas where we can help a great deal in the field of innovation and research. i find it very helpful that commissioner tajani has also provided information in this context, which makes it clear that the question of competitiveness is of the utmost importance for many areas of european policy. it would certainly be very helpful in the future to take this as a criterion and to consider whether what we decide politically always - often, often enough - also benefits or harms the development of industry in europe. i hope that this is not just a report and a subject for further debate, but that our actions will change a great deal afterwards and that we will take this seriously. industry is important! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
i see great opportunities there and if necessary i'll take care of them myself.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for the many stimulating articles! the four key messages that unite us are clear: firstly, we want to put industrial policy at the centre of eu policy. secondly, we want to link sustainability and competitiveness and develop them further. thirdly, there is no dogma, neither the market nor the state can decide this alone. we need measures of practical reason. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are all shaking hands with you, commissioner, but we also think that we must take you up on your statements. we expect concrete legislative proposals and also concrete measures to support them financially, especially in the field of research. if we succeed in doing so, if our handful and your word come together, then, commissioner, we may find ourselves in a situation similar to that at the end of that beautiful film 'casablanca', when humphrey bogart says to the commissioner: 'i think this is the beginning of a wonderful friendship!'
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in the short to medium term, dependence on imports of rare earths from china is certainly a problem. i cannot see a strategic weakness in europe. europe does not have to remain dependent. to put it bluntly, the chinese are doing us a favour in a way by poking their noses at us to get rid of our current dependence. we should not make the mistake of entering into a european-chinese antagonism. there are also opportunities for cooperation. but when we look at asia, we should also look at japan. japan has been hit harder than europe in the past year in terms of access to rare earths. japan has reacted more quickly and energetically. the japanese government is allocating one billion dollars to research into the substitution and recycling of rare earths. how much do we take in the seventh framework programme? of course we need trade policy. we must also tap into our own reserves, if any. but the strategic guiding principle of our rare earths policy, in my view, must be innovation, resource efficiency, technology leadership. we need binding targets on resource efficiency. we also need concrete, specific plans for the recycling of rare earths. the commission's communication does not even mention the recycling of rare earths! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our companies have already started to do this - rhodia, basf, osram and many others. and substitution is key. even china is now starting to invest in the substitution of rare earths, because it is clear that even for its own needs it cannot continue to consume and exploit endlessly as it has done so far. so let us hurry to seize the opportunity that the present situation offers us, and let us not complain that we have this opportunity!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. only last autumn did the european parliament expressly welcome the fact that the european union's heads of state or government, in a declaration at the madrid summit, explicitly recognised the sovereign right of states to manage and regulate their natural resources. the importance of sustainability criteria was also explicitly mentioned. the summit was held with the participation of the latin american countries, but the same right applies to china and other countries. mining of rare earths has caused severe environmental damage in china, as it did in the united states and elsewhere. this can't go on. an international understanding is required. china and other potential producers need know-how and technology transfer for environmentally friendly mining and for significantly better safety for miners. the commission has also found that the chinese exporting producers are not in a position to provide the union industry with the necessary raw materials. the commission should therefore make itself useful as an intermediary. a modern raw materials policy must be characterised by partnership. at the same time, give strong support to the development of improved recycling and substitution technologies, because there will be more in the future: the metals from these soils are rare - too rare to be consumed easily.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, and i would like to thank him for his work. the commission also made an announcement in 2007 and presented a raw materials strategy. my problem now is that the announcements we hear these days and the announcements we've heard in the last few weeks are very similar to the announcements back then. but i have the impression that since then, unfortunately, very little has happened. at least, little has happened when it comes to advancing our interests. i have the impression that many other countries in the world are very aggressive in their pursuit of their interests - this is called the "colonial reflex". i also see the colonial reflex, but certainly not in the european union countries, but i see it quite specifically in china, when i look at how china is approaching the question of raw materials and also quite specifically the question of rare earths, in order to maintain its monopoly position and put other countries at a disadvantage. i am increasingly wondering, commissioner, who can we blame for something really happening? is it your general directorate? is that you? is it the directorate-general for trade? is that commissioner de gucht? are they the other commissioners? who really bears the primary responsibility? what are the concrete steps and when can we measure them against the actual implementation of the european union's measures? i would be very grateful if you would address this issue, because we all know that the chinese are still active and working with export restrictions and export tariffs that are putting our companies in huge difficulty. has the commission finally drawn up a list of all the products where the chinese are currently enjoying competitive advantages because of export restrictions? does the commission intend to take anti-dumping measures, if necessary, to eliminate any competitive disadvantages for our companies? i would be very grateful if you could answer these questions.
i have to say, madam president, i was pleased, mr oettinger, that you did not indulge in the "shale gas euphoria" that is rampant elsewhere, but advised sobriety. there is certainly some promise in this context, because the dependence on gas imports could be reduced. we are already benefiting from it. you pointed out that prices are falling because the u.s. is using such a large supply of unconventional gas. but you also have to build trust if you want to -- as you said -- have this issue looked at without bias. the commission has put forward the possibility of reviewing the regulatory framework. the commission's spokeswoman recently - although this has puzzled me - pointed out that there would certainly be gaps. but unlike the united states, the commission has not done anything else. the epa is conducting a major study. i wonder why we don't do something similar or at least wait for the epa study to come out before we take the next steps. we must now advocate a political moratorium on "shale gas activities" until the questions that many citizens are now asking are resolved, because they have realized that the united states has acted too quickly. because there are problems there that are bigger than you would have thought, and the united states is in trouble now that we would certainly like to avoid. i therefore urge you, as the responsible commissioner, not to insist on pursuing what you have set out to do, but to follow the way in which the americans are conducting ambitious investigations to build confidence.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. mrs ashton, thank you very much for your remarks and for the brilliant and coherent presentation of your position and your analysis of the situation in our southern neighbourhood and in libya. we are facing a huge challenge. we are witnessing a truly historic change in the political weight of the world, particularly in our immediate neighbourhood. we are dealing with very different developments. we cannot speak of a uniform process. the uniform process is the revolution, but it's very specific and very different in each country. it is different in morocco than in tunisia, it is different in algeria than in egypt, and libya is a special case that we talk about intensely. gaddafi is a criminal, he is a murderer who should be brought before an international criminal court. i think we can all agree that this man will not escape punishment in any case. the best thing would be for the libyan people to be able to and to handle this problem. we are faced with a great challenge that requires a clear head. because we have to make a choice, even in what we say here. on the one hand, our emotions tell us that this criminal must be stopped, that the fratricide must be stopped in our own country and that we cannot rule out any necessary action, including military. that's what our conscience tells us. on the other hand, we all know how international politics works and that a wrong decision in this area can have far-reaching and long-term consequences. of course, it is easy to say, "we are intervening quickly". but the very enforcement of the no-fly zone requires that we make the decision to let fighter jets take off and destroy the libyan air force on the ground. these are military measures taken by nato that may solve one problem in libya, but in turn cause several problems in the entire region. i therefore urge that everything we do be done within the framework of international law and international law, on the basis of a decision of the united nations security council and - and this is the great common denominator - including the arab league and the african union. we shall include that in the resolution and that is reasonable. based on a security council resolution and with the involvement of arab states, that is the only sensible way to go if we are going to intervene in libya. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but i would like to say that it is not yet time to take a decision on the matter. this is dangerous! the question has been raised in the european council - and i am addressing myself to you, mr buzek, because you will be representing parliament at the european council in the coming days - as to whether we do not need a marshall plan for the whole region. my answer is yes, we need a kind of marshall plan for the whole region. but i would like to remind you of what the marshall plan meant for europe: it meant that george marshall proposed to the united states of america that one per cent of the total economic output of the united states should be allocated to europe. the result of this measure is well known: it is called the european union today, with a prosperity, a peace dividend and a democratic development that has never existed on this continent. i also note, however, that the same governments who are discussing this consider that 1% of the total economic output is too much for the european union itself. we cannot make these cheap demands and do nothing about it! if we want the neighbourhood area to be stabilized in the south, we will have to put a lot of money into our hands. because there is one thing that people there need: a perspective to live in peace, democracy and prosperity, so that we can also get what we have. this must be the aim of all the efforts we make in the coming days, weeks and months, including here in the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they need action. the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity, and it is not only a political entity, but it is also a political entity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate here in the european parliament makes one thing clear: we are not neutral in this conflict. we are on the side of the democratic revolution, gaddafi must go and europe must play an active role in this. we have an international division of labour here. we are talking about the no-fly zone, for which we - martin schulz is right - actually need a mandate from the un security council. but what do we do if moscow and beijing don't agree? then we must close this loophole in international law. we must nevertheless assume the responsibility of protecting the defenceless population, with the help of the arab league, with the help of the african union, but also with the help of an active role for the european union. the military enforcement would then be the responsibility of nato and its partners, but politically and economically the european union will continue to have to play the central role, long after nato and the united nations have no major role in such a scenario. i want to say very clearly that i was very pleased, mr schulz, that you said here that we need a free trade area. because if we don't let these people's products into the eu, then people will continue to come in masses in nutshells across the mediterranean to lampedusa. we can't have that! so let's make the free trade zone, let's let the products into the eu so that people also have an economic future in democratic countries!
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank you very much, madam vice-president, for your presentation and your efforts in the last few weeks, which could put europe on the map if we continue to approach the matter with the necessary courage and draw the necessary consequences. the events in north africa are very similar to those in 1989 - despite all the differences. people are crying out for freedom and better living conditions. in addition to the humanitarian aid we are now obliged to provide, we must offer them, if they wish, to build democracy. but this democracy will only survive if we also help them to improve their living conditions. we have heard talk of a marshall plan, of a free trade area - all this is necessary because it can be positive for us in a tremendously dramatic and historic sense if democracy, freedom and better living conditions prevail here. that is why we must not treat this as a routine matter and we must act quickly. to prevent the return of the murderer gaddafi, we must encourage the people and show them that we are on their side. that is why it is important to establish relations with the interim council. we need to be the ones to make it clear that we are making other things happen. we must contribute to the total isolation of gaddafi, so that he is separated from his own people, so that there is no future with gaddafi, so that the people separate from him. and that includes stopping gaddafi from bombing his own people. that is why a no-fly zone or whatever it is is necessary to provide protection and encouragement here so that those who fight for freedom are not discouraged. and since we can do that with the arab league, in recognition of the un charter, it doesn't have to be a un resolution if russia is involved. then we must help the people there so that they are able to fight for freedom in these conflicts and so that there is no permanent civil war with this murderer. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 49 (8) of the crp). )
i have explicitly said that this must be done in cooperation with the arab league and with the arab countries. secondly, it is desirable that this should be legitimized by a united nations resolution. but if it is prevented by one of the veto powers, we also have many examples of the un charter being applied accordingly. it is not possible that a veto power prevents us from being able to confront the murder of our own people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we want to work together to support the people of north africa in their legitimate aspirations. the people there are the ones who are going to determine the course, but we must be ready to help them, if they ask for help, with immediate humanitarian aid. it is therefore good that echo is already present on the ground in tunisia and egypt. but we are now facing a real stress test of the eu's and its member states' capacity and capability, because we have to do everything at the same time: fly out our own citizens, provide and transport refugees from neighbouring countries home, take care of boat refugees arriving in the eu and counter the illegitimate power grab of a dictator. what are the concrete steps to delegitimize gaddafi? first, we must all pull our ambassadors out of tripoli. secondly, we must recognize the provisional national council as our legitimate interlocutor and make arrangements for the provision of humanitarian aid. thirdly, our member states, represented in the security council, should submit a joint proposal for the establishment of a no-fly zone, which should then be voted on at short notice. fourthly, if the security council is blocked by a veto, we should support the development of regional international law. that is to say, if the african union and the arab league and the eu agree, we should find a way together in the region to implement the no-fly zone by appropriate means. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to return briefly to the southern neighbourhood policy and the proposals made by the commission and mrs ashton yesterday. i think what we are lacking is a realisation of what is still going on, for example concerning our relations with saudi arabia and the negotiations with syria. how will you change them? how will they be changed? will you continue with the status quo on these negotiations with syria, and what will you do with saudi arabia? how will we interact with these countries? what i see as lacking in your proposal which i think on the whole is good is a process for how we will establish criteria for upgrading relations. how will you do the "we will pay more" based on what criteria and verified by whom? i think we need a process like an enlargement process, with a commission to set criteria and a commission to verify them.
the agenda includes the report by elmar brok, roberto gualtieri, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendment of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to a stability mechanism for member states whose currency is the euro (00033/2010 - c7-0014/2011 - 2010/0821(nle)) (a7-0052/2011).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do anything about the problems of the environment. the euro is a great success story. the euro is one of the most stable currencies in the world, and it has now proved to be superior to the dollar on the markets. we see that the economic data of the united states are much worse than the european data. but we still see, because we are not in a uniform position, that certain parts of the euro area, certain member states are in difficulty and we have to deal with that. the fact is that the failure of the euro is likely to be extremely costly for all of us in this globalised order, and i want to say explicitly that my country - which sometimes presents itself as having to make great sacrifices - is the main beneficiary or co-main beneficiary of the euro. we are not making a sacrifice here, but we are also acting in the common interest of all the states - large and small, rich and poor - and we must act together. we also need to make it clear that we need to stand together to achieve credibility. it's not possible for a rating agency like moody's to downgrade a country three notches overnight. in this way, we are again getting into trouble because of pressure from america. we must also have the opportunity to stand together more strongly. i am therefore pleased that we are now trying to create the conditions for credibility in three ways: strengthening the stability and growth pact, which provides for a higher degree of intervention, strengthening the role of the commission, an early warning system, the european semester, which is intended to determine at an early stage whether and how budgetary discipline can and should be enforced in the member states. all this strengthens our ability to avoid a situation like the one we are in now and to achieve lasting credibility. secondly, we cannot tackle this crisis with budgetary discipline alone. we will only get out of this debt trap by a combination of fiscal discipline and growth. this is why it makes sense to strive to promote growth and competitiveness. i am glad that the proposals that have been made are gradually being changed so that they are not based on a purely intergovernmental approach but are increasingly being integrated into the community process, insofar as the european union has the relevant powers. this is a step by step reduction of some of the reservations we have rightly had in this house about a particular proposal. but these two things go together: competitiveness and budgetary discipline. the third point concerns the amendment of the treaty, which we must clear the way for and on which the european council of 24 march can only decide if we have delivered our opinion by then. it has been proposed to amend article 136 (3) of the treaty. mr gualtieri and i, like the constitutional committee, believe that it would be better to amend article 136 (1) and to reword it somewhat in order to better meet our requirements. we also know that this approach may be even more difficult to implement, because for political and temporal reasons the simplified procedure should be sought and no referendums should be held. if this is not possible for the reasons i have just mentioned, we should at least make sure that the council makes commitments which make it clear that the intergovernmental approach does not mean creating new structures in the european union on a permanent basis, but that it is always used as a vanguard method, as it has been in the past. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means that we also see the weakness of the intergovernmental approach. the intergovernmental approach does not have parliamentary legitimacy or very little parliamentary legitimacy and is incapable of acting in many areas because it always requires unanimity. this is why the community solution the method monnet is also increasingly legitimated and justifies greater capacity for action. we should not forget this in this discussion. the european parliament is seeking to create the conditions for these steps to be taken in the various fields using the approach of the community institutions. the question is not so much about the european parliament, because in an intergovernmental approach we have at most a right of consultation, but about the commission being more closely involved, carrying out the work, carrying out the evaluation and presenting the proposals. the commission should also propose a regulation to regulate these matters, in order to incorporate them into community law. i hope that the european council is prepared - and i welcome richard corbett as the representative of the european council - to create the necessary conditions in the talks with us until 24 march and to give parliament the assurance that this approach can be used in such a way that the necessary steps are also made sense and we can then share our responsibilities.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think it is safe to say that we in europe are at a crossroads - at a crossroads where two major crises are calling for our action. the first is the economic and financial crisis, and subsequently the euro crisis - the dramatic consequences, i believe, of a one-sided and unsustainable development model based on debt and deregulation, which has increasingly destroyed sustainability and also social cohesion and the efficiency of public budgets as the basis for it in our member states and throughout europe. the other big crisis, which we are even less aware of, i see as a crisis of democracy and legitimacy, which is related to the fact that we can make more and more decisions not in the nation state, but beyond it, but that when this is not associated with more, but with less democracy, we lose the consent and acceptance of the people. so we should think very carefully about what we're doing. we think we need a stability mechanism, we just think it doesn't go deep enough. because it starts with the symptoms, not the causes. it will intervene unilaterally in public spending, in wages, in salaries, in pensions, in social welfare. it will not take into account the massive speculative profits that have been made and are being made, the increasingly unequal distribution of wealth and income in europe. he will not ask those who have now made profits from these speculative transactions to come to the cashier. that's why he's not going far enough! the second point is that we are establishing a mechanism outside the community method. but europe is the model for how this cooperation across states can be based on free initiative, social cohesion and greater democracy. we have promised in the treaty of lisbon to prepare future treaty amendments by means of a convention and to discuss them intensively in a democratic way. now, with the first amendment, we're doing the opposite. we want this stability mechanism, but we do not want it at the expense of european democracy, citizen participation, at the expense of abandoning the community method, we do not want it as a step backwards towards a europe of intergovernmental governments, but as a step forward towards a more united europe, more participation, more democracy in europe! we have therefore tabled amendments to that effect, both in terms of content and methodology. we are in close contact with the reporters. we have decided not to vote on the final text today. i am hopeful that the developments of the last few days will lead to an agreement. but we will only agree to it if it moves us forward and not if it throws us back in the building of a common democratic and social europe.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i find it remarkable that most of the groups are now uncomfortable with the idea of voting in an expedited procedure to amend article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the present report clearly confirms our expectations as parliamentarians: a future crisis mechanism should not create parallel structures outside the union and parliamentary democratic control should be guaranteed at all stages. i'm not sure i believe it. it is true that mr barroso made it clear yesterday that he is committed both to the objective of social cohesion in the union and to the community method. this was agreed by all the speakers. but this is not a motion for a resolution, and i miss that. what was or was not in the package is the merkel-sarkozy pact. that is why i am suspicious and somewhat sceptical. it is clear to my group that it cannot agree to a policy which relies on budgetary consolidation through further cuts in the social sector. first of all, the european parliament must have the concrete proposals for the future economic and monetary policy of the european union and its mechanisms for voting, because that is what is at stake. this is such a fundamental decision that it cannot be taken under the motto 'europe by decree', but only under the convention method enshrined in the treaty. that is why my group cannot agree with the report, which is otherwise good in many respects. because even if the contrary is claimed, it would of course set a precedent.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the debate, we must not forget that this is a simplified treaty amendment under article 136 and that we as parliament want to be more involved in whatever mechanisms are in place. that's the starting point. a wish list has been submitted. i would like to expressly agree with mr brok that the commission and parliament must be involved. that is why we are debating today and not deciding until 24 march, to give the council the chance to put this participation into practice. the full involvement of the commission raises questions because the commission has not in the past fulfilled its duty as guardian of the treaties, it has not initiated proceedings. and the member states themselves have not fulfilled their obligations. it is therefore essential that we take this simplified treaty amendment as a further step towards completing economic and monetary union. i have an idea of how to do this. the commission, on behalf of the council, is preparing the matter - including proposals and drafts - and the council is being asked to report and discuss with us, as we do in the monetary dialogue with the independent european central bank. that would be a reasonable approach!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the lisbon treaty, which has been so long in the making, had two clear messages: firstly, the strengthening of the community method with a central role for the commission and, secondly, the strengthening of democracy with the involvement of the european parliament. the spirit of lisbon is already being ignored and trampled underfoot, barely a year after the treaty entered into force. the european council's intention in amending the treaty is clearly contrary to these two messages of the lisbon treaty. the community method is not being strengthened, but we have renationalisation, intergovernmentalisation at an important place in future eu policy and the eu institutions are being completely excluded. this is unacceptable and parliament should be opposed to this proposal. i am surprised that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, has not spoken more clearly and that we, as parliament, have to act as a sort of proxy for the commission. we must get the commission to hunt. a dangerous precedent is being set here! the economic crisis has made it clear that monetary union cannot exist on its own. in view of the wave of refugees from north africa and the insecurity in our neighbourhood, we want further eu policies and we do not want renationalisation. i hope that the rapporteurs can make some improvements, otherwise i cannot agree to this amendment to the treaty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we now have three different packages of economic governance: the six commission proposals, the competitiveness pact currently being negotiated under the chairmanship of mr van rompuy and mr barroso and the treaty amendment proposals and the associated establishment of the european stability mechanism. it is clear from this discussion that the whole thing must be done under parliamentary control and on the proposal of the commission. but parliament has different rights under the treaties in relation to the three different packages. at the same time, these packets overlap. so what should we do politically? i think it is crucial that we tie our agreement to the six commission proposals to our demands in the other two areas so that it becomes a balanced package in the interests of the citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the brussels group did not win against strasbourg today, because we also reduced the number of meetings in brussels by one. so it is really 1 to 1 between brussels and strasbourg. but, ladies and gentlemen, we voted against the law. the decision to hold the august plenary and the october plenary in the same week is illegal. because the contract says that these are monthly plenary sessions. this cannot be justified by cost savings either, because the costs - which are, by the way, 70 million euros, that is still enough - are not incurred by strasbourg, but are incurred by the fact that activities are constantly shifted in the shadows of the brussels bureaucracy in breach of the contract. if we concentrate our work in strasbourg, we will save money and have a democratic face of our own in europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have spoken on the budgetary negotiations because i believe that the european parliament is not always treated fairly. we as members of the european parliament are also in favour of austerity, but it is also simply a matter of being able to do our job properly. the proposed increase in the budget for the european parliament, which is well below the rate of inflation, is therefore not appropriate. it does not take into account, for example, that we are adding 18 additional members to our house, that we are also financing the accession of croatia and that we are also making other investments. i think that in the end, a good compromise will be found in this matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i abstained on the progress report on turkey, but not because i disagree with the analysis - despite some reforms, criticism of press censorship, human rights violations, the turkish electoral system and religious freedom speaks for itself. i have abstained because i think that the european parliament must demand much clearer consequences. if turkey refuses to make the crucial reforms, we must not negotiate membership any longer. it is time for the european parliament to call for the accession negotiations to be stopped.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. although i share mr pieper's concerns, i voted for the report because we have once again made it quite clear at the beginning of the report that we regard the negotiations as a long process with an open outcome. we rejected the green group's proposal to attach us to the european union, as we had rejected the socialist group's proposals in previous years. that is why this parliament has taken the right line. but we should now take the next step and tell turkey quite frankly, as mr pieper has asked, that we cannot accept turkey's membership because it would overwhelm turkey and stretch the european union. a politically integrated europe with turkey as a member is not possible. that's a lie we should finally say goodbye to. as for progress, it is in the interests of turkey itself, which is a member of the council of europe and nato and our closest ally.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need something like a regulatory framework in enlargement policy. we must therefore conclude the negotiations with croatia by june, as planned, and then, by our vote in the autumn, start the process of accession for croatia. we want croatia to be in the european union next year or next year at the latest. but then it must go on, but how? we must integrate the small but difficult rest of south-eastern europe. first there is macedonia and then montenegro. this is a signal to all the other countries in the region that if they meet the criteria, they too have a place in our ranks. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. montenegro in particular is a small country with a great european tradition. i look forward to the negotiations with montenegro!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it is very important that we have been able to discuss this report and vote on it today. of course, it would be best if crises did not occur at all. but it would be worse if we did not learn from crises. it is precisely because we have learned from the last crisis that we are once again dealing with industrial policy in the european union, especially since before the last crisis there were a lot of people of our time who thought that money could be made with money. the economic and industrial policy is the key to our prosperity in the european union. i think it's extremely important that we've been dealing with this. it is of course good to deal with sustainability, innovation and a future-oriented industrial policy, but i think it is equally important that we have also emphasised our traditional industries in this report. i am particularly pleased about this and hope that we can continue to discuss it.
in writing. - i have rejected the amendments and will be bringing an action for infringement of the treaty before the court of justice together with mr posselt.
in writing. - i voted against the amendments and will be taking the infringement to the court of justice. the conference of presidents should not have put the motion to the vote.
in writing. - the progress report on turkey clearly shows the weaknesses of the previous procedure. turkey is far behind expectations. there must also be no membership discount, as demanded by the socialists and the greens. in this context, mr erdoğan's appearances in germany, where he calls for the disintegration of the turks in germany, are also to be criticized. such talk is not conducive to good relations and is a disgrace to the efforts of both germany and the union. the freedom of the press and the settlement of the cyprus problem also leave much to be desired.
in writing. - i have approved the report. but only because it shows very clearly that there is no progress in the accession negotiations with turkey. on the contrary, there is a tendency to see stagnation and even regression in key areas such as respect for civil and human rights, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly and of the press, and in the cyprus question. the new foreign policy orientation of turkey towards iran and syria, for example, raises doubts as to whether turkish president erdoğan is really serious about moving closer to europe. it is also unclear where the billions of euros in accession aid paid to turkey have been spent. the only conclusion to be drawn from all this is that the accession negotiations must be stopped. turkey remains one of the eu's most important partners, but full membership is increasingly becoming an illusion.
in writing. - in the vote on the lange report, i shall abstain on paragraph 31 because of the ambiguity of the wording, since both eurobonds and project bonds are mentioned. i am not opposed to project-related bonds as such. project bonds are used to finance large-scale innovation, infrastructure and reindustrialisation projects. these are not debt pooling instruments as would be the case with eurobonds.
in writing. - in the vote on the lange report, i shall abstain on paragraph 31 because of the ambiguity of the wording, since both eurobonds and project bonds are mentioned. i am not opposed to project-related bonds as such. project bonds are used to finance large-scale innovation, infrastructure and reindustrialisation projects. these are not debt pooling instruments as would be the case with eurobonds.
in writing. - in the vote on the lange report, i shall abstain on paragraph 31 because of the ambiguity of the wording of the vote, since both eurobonds and project-linked bonds are mentioned. i am not opposed to project-related bonds as such. project bonds are used to finance large-scale innovation, infrastructure and reindustrialisation projects. these are not debt pooling instruments as would be the case with eurobonds.
in writing. - in the vote on the lange report, i abstain on paragraph 31 because of the ambiguous wording of the vote, since both eurobonds and project-related bonds are mentioned. i am not opposed to project-related bonds as such. project bonds are used to finance large-scale innovation, infrastructure and reindustrialisation projects. these are not debt pooling instruments as would be the case with eurobonds.
in writing. - in the vote on the lange report, i shall abstain on paragraph 31 because of the ambiguity of the wording, since both eurobonds and project bonds are mentioned. i am not opposed to project-related bonds as such. project bonds are used to finance large-scale innovation, infrastructure and reindustrialisation projects. these are not debt pooling instruments as would be the case with eurobonds.
in writing. - in the vote on the lange report, i abstain on paragraph 31 because of the ambiguous wording of the vote, since both eurobonds and project-related bonds are mentioned. i am not opposed to project-related bonds as such. project bonds are used to finance large-scale innovation, infrastructure and reindustrialisation projects. these are not debt pooling instruments as would be the case with eurobonds.
the next item is the report by mr bastiaan belder, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu's approach to iran (2010/2050 (ini)) (a7-0037/2011).
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, this is an opportunity to debate the european union’s approach to iran, which has been the subject of an own-initiative report with mr belder as rapporteur. mr belder’s report touches on a broad range of issues and reflects the views of many different interests, but i will concentrate on two issues, the nuclear programme and the human rights situation in iran, both of which the report deals with extensively. as honourable members know, iran’s nuclear programme remains a serious concern for the european union and for the international community as a whole. both the un security council and the board of governors of the international atomic energy agency in vienna have adopted a series of resolutions requiring iran to take the steps necessary to build confidence in the exclusively peaceful nature of its programme. regrettably, the last iaea report, issued on 25 february, confirmed iran’s failure to comply with its international obligations. for the european union, we remain determined to work towards a diplomatic solution on the basis of our double-track approach, combining pressure with dialogue. the objective remains to engage iran in a phased approach of confidence building, leading to meaningful negotiations on the nuclear programme. at the second meeting i led on behalf of the e3+3 – china, france, germany, russia, the united kingdom and the united states – in istanbul, i presented to iran our proposals for concrete confidence-building measures, including an updated fuel supply arrangement for the tehran research reactor, as well as other transparency measures. honourable members will know that these proposals would bring immediate benefit for both sides and could pave the way for a process to address concerns and gradually build mutual confidence. and building confidence is what our efforts are all about. iran’s response was disappointing. it was not ready to discuss our proposals unless we first recognised iran’s ‘right to enrich uranium’. it spoke of the removal of all sanctions. i understand iran’s wish to see sanctions removed. we all want to see our talks come to a successful conclusion which – in accordance with the security council resolutions – would mean the sanctions would go. the removal of sanctions is something which would accompany the gradual re-establishment of confidence. that was the path we were trying to go down. as for the ‘right to enrich’, the non-proliferation treaty is careful to balance rights and obligations. i see no value in re-writing or re-interpreting it in any selective way. the first step is for iran to put itself into full compliance with its obligations. we will continue our efforts engaging iran but, at the same time, our efforts to increase the pressure, first of all through a strengthening of the implementation of existing sanctions. i have since met with the new foreign minister of iran, dr salehi, in geneva, a meeting which gave me the chance to explain to him the efforts we have put into the iran talks and our strong desire for a response, for the security of all of us. i have also written to dr jalili, who led the talks on behalf of iran, to restate our offer and to invite him to respond. dr salehi told me they were considering their response and i urged them to be positive. like this parliament, i share the views of so many on the issue of human rights in iran. the continued and systematic oppression, arrests and harassment of lawyers, journalists and others who are exercising their rights is totally unacceptable. we have seen very long prison sentences and restrictions on the right to work and travel for up to 20 years for some of the people convicted. when iranian people wished to demonstrate peacefully on 14 february in support of the situation in egypt and tunisia, the demonstrations were forbidden. moreover, as mr belder has said, mr mousavi and mr karoubi, the two opposition leaders who had expressed their support for these demonstrations, were held under house arrest and later apparently detained. i have seen the statement by socialists and democrats of the parliament made on 1 march, and i fully support that. i remain very concerned about the treatment of mr karoubi and mr mousavi and i issued a statement on 4 march to that effect. despite our efforts to secure verifiable information, it remains unclear whether they are under house arrest or otherwise imprisoned. i urge the authorities of iran simply to grant them the freedom of movement to which they are entitled. the report also underlines the seriousness of the increase in executions in iran. the information we have suggests there may have been around 100 executions since the beginning of this year. in line with our longstanding and firm position on the abolition of the death penalty, i have called for a halt to all pending death penalty cases. i want the death penalty abolished, whatever the method. stoning and public hangings are barbaric. it is important to note that international efforts can and do make a difference. i saw that in the case of ms ashtiani her execution has – at least temporarily – been stayed, but as the report points out, zahra bahrami, a dutch-iranian national was executed in iran on 29 january with no prior notice. both the execution and the process leading up to it were shocking. i have made this clear publicly, expressing my dismay over the lack of transparency in the case and that the dutch authorities were refused consular access. let me finish my intervention by mentioning that my services, together with member states, are discussing how we can be more effective on human rights issues in iran, using public and private messages, working bilaterally and through multilateral organisations, working with member states and with international parties, all with a single purpose, to ensure the iranian people, like others, have their basic rights respected. i look forward to this debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also aware of the problems of the environment. i should like to begin by thanking mr belder for his comprehensive report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is important because the regime in tehran must not succeed in breaking up a broad common front in this body either. as for the leadership's nuclear ambitions, the international community is united at the un level. nobody in this world wants the iranian bomb! all of them want full and transparent cooperation with the international atomic energy agency. we have made a number of far-reaching proposals, but unfortunately they have not been accepted. we are not in complete agreement here in the house on how far we should go in imposing sanctions to meet international demands. but i hope that in the overall picture of the situation we will come to a common course of action. the second aspect that concerns us is iran's role in the region. the attitude towards israel remains intolerable and unacceptable. the support of organisations which destabilise the region cannot be tolerated. large parts of the region fear iran's policies. the internal political situation is dramatic as regards human rights and democracy. that is why i hope that this great civilized people will get rid of this domination sooner rather than later. i am very confident that we will not see a second iran in egypt, but a second egypt in iran. then there would be an end to the instrumentalization of religion for very secular purposes. i hope that this will mean an end to the death penalty in general and to the death penalty for minors and members of minorities in particular. then there would be an end to the persecution of oppositionists, not just karrubi and mousavi, and then there would hopefully be freedom of the media and a path to free elections for a better iran. in the process, we must, among other things, use our european instrument for democracy and human rights to support civil society actors. and targeted sanctions against regime officials must be expanded. in the light of the events in north africa, let us encourage the iranians to have a better future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the present report, on which all the groups have worked intensively, is a very good basis on which to build the eu's policy on iran. the various aspects of the conflict with the iranian government are addressed as a common challenge: iran's nuclear programme and relations with its neighbours, the catastrophic human rights situation in the country as well as the difficult economic situation. unemployment has skyrocketed, and one in four iranians live below the poverty line. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we europeans must not stand by and watch regime critics, trade unionists, women's rights activists and people of other faiths being imprisoned, tortured and murdered. the eu should also make a significantly greater effort to put pressure on those responsible for human rights crimes, including by means of targeted sanctions, such as entry bans or the blocking of their accounts. the european external action service must also examine carefully which of the economic sanctions are actually achieving their objectives and which are affecting only the iranian population. a policy of complete isolation leads to a dead end and is not supported by many in the iranian population. with this report, parliament has made it clear that democratic change cannot be imposed militarily from outside. we must continue to pursue a two-track strategy, seeking dialogue while clearly demanding respect for universal rights and international treaties. the european union has also been called upon to open an eu delegation in tehran, now that the european external action service has taken over the eu's rotating presidency in third countries.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the amendments have greatly improved mr belder's report and my group can agree with him on many points. unfortunately, it is mainly a description of the situation, which is quite correct, but the basic philosophy of a realistic perspective on the future is not developed. the human rights situation in iran is unbearable! however, sanctions are not suitable to improve this situation in a lasting way. to promote democratization in iran, everything must be done to ease the international situation. the intensification of international relations risks further anti-democratic measures being implemented within the country and weakening the opposition. a policy of détente should also put an end to any threat scenario. negotiations and international relations can only succeed if all partners have diplomatic recognition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have set out our ideas on a viable strategy for iran in an alternative motion for a resolution and for the reasons i have outlined i shall be advocating the rejection of mr belder's report.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the arab world is undergoing a profound transformation. the people are fighting for their dignity, they want to live in freedom, in a democracy and in an order of law like us. it is our political and moral obligation to support the people of the arab world in this process with commitment and comprehensiveness. i was in cairo last weekend and met with many young people in tahrir square. i was deeply impressed by the openness, confidence, courage and optimism of the young people in cairo. egypt and other arab countries now have a chance to develop democratically. this is also an opportunity for israel not to remain the only democracy in the middle east, alongside lebanon. the change in arabia must be seen as an opportunity for peace between israel and palestine. everything that hinders this peace must be abandoned. that means that israel's settlement building is a provocation to the palestinians and hamas' rockets are a provocation to the israelis. both must end! peace between israel and palestine is possible two states each with secure borders, living together peacefully as good neighbours. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process, and it is a party to the peace process.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the contrast is obvious! the revolution, the change in the arab world fascinates us all. we're trying to help. we have debated libya today, we have debated egypt and tunisia in the last few days and weeks. and at the same time, we have a stalemate in the peace process? in view of this, it must be said very clearly, my dear baroness ashton, that it was a great achievement of yours to have the quartet meet. to create movement now in this phase of deep uncertainty in the region, including deep uncertainty in israel, was a very positive achievement. i expressly acknowledge that! you must hear criticism from this house from time to time. for that, too, a commendation may be appropriate. as for the content, let me be clear: i don't think israel is skeptical of democracy in arab countries. but this transformation is not over. and if there are democracies - and i agree with mr pöttering and with you, mr swoboda - then this is clearly a great opportunity to finally get the middle east peace process moving. the settlement building must stop, that is also clear, this is an inter-group consensus, and the same is true of the rabble-rousing tactics used to defend it. in the context of the revolts in the arab world, we have also seen protests against the hamas regime in the gaza strip. the situation in the palestinian territories is by no means simple. we must also democratize here! in the west bank, we are fortunate to have a moderate and conservative partner at the moment, but in gaza we have absolutely no such partner.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the rescue umbrellas are designed to protect eu member states from insolvency. but you are overwhelming the people with brutal austerity programmes and leaving the polluters unharmed! the commission is also now intervening in national wage policy. mr hahn, it is absurd and tearful to hear this formal argument that it was not intended to be sociopolitical. this position is totally unacceptable! wage policy is not an eu matter! this policy of the commission is in flagrant contradiction to the idea of this european union. the european union was never a project of wage competition and social dumping. it says there's a rigidity in wages that's going to be reduced. it says wages should reflect market conditions. blind people talk about color! people who say that have no idea what collective bargaining is. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make it clear that this parliament is called upon to ensure that the policy of autonomous collective bargaining is maintained, that social dialogue is protected and that social security is not further eroded. we need measures against counterproductive austerity, not punitive measures!
the commission has already done so. i sometimes feel that you should try all these recipes at the commission itself, so that you can see what you are really doing to europe. i have the impression, after your speech, that the commission is really sitting in an ivory tower! the people of europe - the working people, the low-income earners, the pensioners - are actually paying the price. and you're here to interpret legislation and jurisdiction as you please. i received on 19 october last year the reply to a question to the commission, in which it was expressly confirmed to me that minimum wages and wages are a matter for the member states. that's very impressive. please read this. it is not possible that once you think it is good for the employers, you give me such an answer, and if you think it is good for the other side, you just change direction. this is making people in europe very unhappy indeed. my colleague has just commented on it. they're going for the co-determination. you're weakening the unions. that is not the way out of the crisis and you know it! those who caused the crisis must also pay for the crisis! (applause from the centre)
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. we have just discussed natural disasters under the previous item on the agenda. in this case, it was a force of nature that completely paralyzed air traffic. eyjafjallajökull, which is probably known to everyone by now, erupted last year and has completely stopped large parts of the air traffic. i have just remarked in the previous speech that we have a very good chairman of the committee on transport and tourism, because i was going to say something very similar. now i'm going to try to change my speech a little bit. it was a mess, actually. brian simpson said that. we europeans, who are highly technological and have already coordinated a great deal, were actually helpless in dealing with this disaster and in seeing how to find solutions. we've noticed that there's not enough dealing. now a task force has been set up. that's what got us to this question: has the task force really come up with any valid results that we can discuss, have they published any studies? i don't know any. have they really consulted all the international experts who know about such volcanic eruptions? because - we already discussed this in the plenary last year - there are other parts of the world where volcanic eruptions are much more frequent than in europe, and they manage to have up-to-date data and coordinate the whole thing. then something else moves me. on 4 may, the council of transport ministers also said that we need a linked european transport system. of course, that can help in such cases. how far are we now in being able to react better in the event of another volcanic eruption - you can't plan it, it just happens? another question: do we know exactly what technology we would need to better deal with this? in germany, all weather stations now have devices that collect the data and can quickly pass on up-to-date information to airline officials and pilots to help them decide whether it is safe or not to fly. another point which has not been raised so far, but which i think is important in this context, is that this ash crisis and the subsequent problems in the aviation sector affected ten million passengers, and of course many companies. the passengers have been stranded and have not been able to get on, and that raises the question of passenger rights. we have passenger rights for air passengers, but i have the impression that in this case they have not always been 100% effective. we should perhaps also review these passenger rights. that's a lot of questions. i do not know whether you can answer that now, commissioner hahn, because transport is not your real area of expertise. i am sure that the questions i have put in addition to the written question will be answered later. you can see that we are very concerned about this. the airspace is very important and we need a single european airspace!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it was a natural disaster with dire consequences for many people. but when we compare it to the flood disaster and the simultaneous hurricane in australia or the earthquake in christchurch, new zealand, we all got away with it. safety was the top priority, and it was. commissioner siim kallas has made the right decision, also in consultation with the eu transport ministers in the member states. i cannot understand the airlines' criticism. of course they've made a loss, two billion was said. but to put the responsibility of whether or not people fly on the airlines, that is wrong. this must be decided politically! safety must be the first priority! imagine if a plane crashed because of volcanic ash! we would have had a completely different discussion, namely how irresponsible it would have been to have even launched a plane. we need a plan b. that's right. and the rail is the alternative! the airlines receive 30 billion euros a year from european taxpayers because of the exemption from the kerosene tax. this money must be invested in the railways, at least part of it, so that we have an alternative in the event of such disasters. safety first that's the appeal. it was right, it must be right in the future!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the volcanic ash last year has shown us impressively where our weaknesses lie. the question therefore is how we will deal with such situations in the future. of course, the safety of people on board an aircraft is paramount. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore ask the commission - and commissioner hahn, perhaps you can also tell mr kallas - what is being planned in concrete terms? i would like to argue that it should be a matter of taking over the coordination when it comes to test flights and limit values. it's very important to know which planes can take off when. another point, mr commissioner: it is extremely important - and this has been pointed out on several occasions - to establish the single european airspace. what pressure does the commission intend to apply to the member states to ensure that they comply with their obligation? they signed it, after all! another important point - which has been raised several times today - is the future of air passenger rights. we have the 2004 regulation no 2061. what does the commission intend to do? we are aware of the problem of the economic damage caused by the various airlines. i would also like to point out once again that we need alternative means of transport to air transport, and by that i mean rail. i am also one of those who say that we must link up the big cities, the capitals of europe. again, the answer is that we need more europe, not less. i would be glad if the commission would take up these points.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we have been specifically addressed here. of course we have confidence in the work of commissioner kroes, who has done an exemplary job in the review of secondary legislation. we would have liked the commissioner for fundamental rights to have done the same. because that's the problem! (applause from the left) the realities include the things that mr swoboda has just mentioned, namely that from the point of view of both the council of europe and the osce the changes are not sufficient. the vice-premier and minister of justice of hungary, mr navracsics, has himself gone so far as to say that this was not a substantial change in the media law. i am only mentioning the protection of journalistic sources, which is still not regulated, or the composition and powers of the media authority. all these are issues that still need to be discussed. i therefore declare on behalf of the liberal group that we will not withdraw the draft resolution but will ask for a vote.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution by the left, socialists, greens and liberals. the petitioners are not so much concerned with media freedom in europe as with the defamation of a bourgeois government elected by the overwhelming majority of its population, which has the difficult task of rebuilding a country that has suffered greatly from the mismanagement of the socialist predecessor government. even the eu commission has not been able to find any serious violations of media freedom in the hungarian law, which has already been modified. the left in europe is quick to find splinters in the eyes of bourgeois governments, but to overlook the boards and beams in the eyes of socialist governments. it is difficult to understand the attitude of the german liberals who, with this resolution, are calling for regulations at european level in the media landscape, whereas the german and european media representatives consider this to be a restriction of media freedom and a breach of subsidiarity.
in writing. - i have just voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the priorities of the 16th session of the united nations human rights council. our resolution is of particular importance because today we commemorate the suppression of peaceful protests against the violent occupation of tibet 52 years ago. the dalai lama announced his political retirement yesterday - this is a historic loss. there are few personalities who enjoy such high respect and at the same time such great sympathy among their own people and throughout the world as his holiness. the dalai lama's political withdrawal does not in any way relieve him of his responsibility. he has stated that he will continue to be committed to the cause of the tibetan people in his spiritual role. his holiness will transfer the political powers laid down in the tibetan constitution to the freely elected government in exile. the european union is also committed to the development of the tibetan people's democratic system. on 20 march, a new prime minister and a new parliament will be elected. i'll be watching the swiss elections as an observer. we europeans will help to further strengthen democracy and human rights for the tibetans.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on pakistan assassination of shahbaz bhatti, minister for minorities.
we're now going to the catch-the-eye procedure. many colleagues have indicated to me - and since some group chairmen and vice-chairmen are present, i will now address this - that we need a little more flexibility in these urgent debates when a subject is obviously of interest to so many colleagues. i shall now take into account to some extent the fact that colleagues have been registered as speakers in subsequent debates.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a week before he was murdered, i spoke to shahbaz bhatti in his office in islamabad, and he was aware of the danger to his person. but what was more troubling to him was his impression that, especially over the last few months, including the assassination of salman taseer, the governor of punjab, many people have been shying away from the extremist challenge. ministers, members of parliament, journalists, lawyers, even human rights activists who had always come forward, no longer dare to stand up to this extremist challenge. this, i believe, is the call that we must make to all pakistanis: stand up together against intolerance, or you will be swept away together or swept away individually. sherry rehman, the courageous mp who introduced amendments to the blasphemy law, is in particular danger. i therefore call on parliament to protect them by finally amending the blasphemy law to their benefit. this would be a clear sign of our common opposition to extremism!
member of the commission. − mr president, in january we deplored the murder of the governor of punjab, salmaan taseer. a few weeks later, these acts of violence continued with the assassination on 2 march 2011 of mr shahbaz bhatti, the minister for minorities in the government of pakistan. vice-president ashton strongly condemned the murder and expressed deep concern over the climate of intolerance and violence in pakistan linked to the debate over the controversial blasphemy laws. mr bhatti was the only christian in the government of pakistan and a well-known advocate of respect for human rights and religious freedom. he was one of the few voices left who dared to speak out and knew he was under threat after the murder of salmaan taseer. yet this did not stop him from defending his rights which, after all, are enshrined in the pakistani constitution. vice-president ashton has called on the government of pakistan to take its responsibilities and provide adequate protection for those in official functions or in civil society who are threatened. the eu welcomes prime minister jamali’s declaration that the government will do its utmost to bring the culprits to justice. our respect goes to mr jamali for attending mr bhatti’s funeral. the government must now live up to its commitments and bring to justice the perpetrators and instigators of such crimes. mr bhatti and mr taseer were outspoken critics of the blasphemy laws and at the forefront of efforts to amend them. however, in the climate prevailing after the taseer murder, the amendments were withdrawn from parliament. the blasphemy laws, which carry the death penalty, are incompatible with the common values we seek to promote in our relations with pakistan. they have also led to miscarriages of justice and discrimination against religious minorities. while we strongly support pakistan’s democratic government and will do what we can to assist it as it seeks to cope with an unprecedented wave of terrorist acts, its members should stand up for the principles they subscribe to. freedom of religion or belief is a universal human right; freedom of opinion and expression is intrinsically linked to it. the council has just adopted conclusions recalling the commitment of the eu to safeguard these fundamental rights and to step up efforts to promote and protect these rights everywhere and for everyone.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on belarus, in particular the cases of ales mikhalevich and natalia radin.
member of the commission. − mr president, we are concerned about the worsening situation in belarus, which unfortunately comes as no surprise. the widespread detention and prosecution of civil society activists, including presidential candidates, in the post-election period led us to expect harsh sentences to follow. as of today we already know of four cases where individuals have been sentenced to several years in prison. we fear that many more such sentences, involving up to 40 people who now stand accused, will follow in months to come. what is more, we have been appalled by reports of the torture and ill-treatment of people detained on political grounds, including ex-presidential candidate michalevic. all these despicable events may call for an update of our eu response. the situation today is as follows: as you know, the eu reacted to the fraudulent elections of 19 december and to the subsequent repression by putting nearly 160 people on a sanction list. this was a very clear and strong message of condemnation to the authorities. at the same time the commission and the european external action service have swiftly designed new dedicated assistance tools to provide urgent support to the victims of repression, their families and civil society, up to an amount of eur 1.7 million. this assistance is being delivered with the initial focus on providing legal assistance and counselling to victims of repression and on support to civil society organisations and civic campaigns. we are also finalising a re-orientation of our mid-term assistance to belarus to increase support to civil society. the commission is quadrupling its aid to belarusian civil society for the period 2011-2013 to a total of eur 15.6 million, with particular attention given to strengthening independent media and supporting students, including by maintaining funding for the european humanities university. it is now time to reflect on whether an additional response is needed. the high representative issued an immediate condemnation following the first sentence on 18 february, and she recalled that political motives had no place in a legal process. the eu also strongly condemned the harsh sentences and torture allegations at the osce and is discussing the matter at the un human rights council. finally, the european union will discuss whether the latest events call for a further expansion of our existing sanction list to add new names such as those responsible for issuing the latest sentences and leading the recent crackdown. the eu stands ready to consider further targeted measures in all areas of cooperation as appropriate. parliament’s resolution will certainly be a useful and timely contribution to our reflections and discussions. i thank members for their attention.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation and cultural heritage in kashgar (xinjiang uyghur autonomous region, china). see minutes of the sitting.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the uighurs are not a minority, as has already been said, but an ancient people of the silk road culture, which gradually came under a very loose chinese rule. the uighurs are particularly supported by the world uighur congress in munich and by the blue shield movement, whose president, karl von habsburg, was here this week in strasbourg to inform us of the cultural heritage of kashgar. if we are going to stand up for the uighurs, we are going to do so with a friendly appeal to the chinese, because the uighurs are threatened by cultural ethnocide. and china, as the oldest civilized nation on earth, should clearly realize that one of the hallmarks of a civilized nation is to protect and respect other cultures, especially when they are smaller cultures within a vast empire. the chinese have only to apply their own constitution, which says in three places that this cultural heritage must be preserved. i therefore say very clearly: we want to be welcomed by our chinese partners here, we want the protection of the cultural heritage of the uyghurs!
member of the commission. − mr president, the preservation of cultural heritage is obviously of central importance in ensuring the protection and continuation of a minority’s traditions and way of life. moreover, the destruction of important cultural property has the potential to deal a serious blow, not only to the heritage and archaeological patrimony of the minority concerned, but to cultural heritage in general. in this light, the european union is following with concern the redevelopment of the ancient city of kashgar in the xinjiang autonomous region of china. the significance of kashgar as a centre of culture for the uyghur minority in china cannot be overstated. kashgar is conceived as being as important as jerusalem is to jews, muslims and christians. the chinese government’s 2009 white paper on xinjiang stated that restoration of kashgar is necessary to protect the city from earthquakes or fire. this is a laudable aim. civil society, both in china and internationally, has expressed considerable disquiet about the methods employed. there is serious concern that as much as 85% of the old city may be demolished. indeed many notable buildings, including the unique xanliq madrasah, appear to have been destroyed already. it is also worrying that some 200 000 people may be displaced from their traditional homes and that there appears to have been little or no consultation with the residents affected. it is feared that the demolition of structures which have formed the basis of uyghur culture for many hundreds of years may have a grave impact on the preservation of their culture in the years ahead. it is also regrettable that china has chosen not to propose kashgar as a world heritage site despite its unique status, as this would allow unesco to become involved in the process of redevelopment. we understand that unesco has in any event made representations to the chinese authorities concerning the impact of the development on kashgar’s traditional heritage and culture. the european union fully shares these concerns and will call on the chinese authorities to work with unesco to ensure that any redevelopment of kashgar meets international best practice in this field. the european union will also call on the chinese authorities to ensure that the inhabitants of kashgar are fully consulted about the future of the city and that their views are taken into account.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the vote. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
the vote is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.30 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would not have taken the floor if it had not been for the penultimate statement. i believe that zero tolerance applies to all members of this house. i therefore ask the following question, and i ask for a clear answer: can you, mr president, or can the secretary-general of this parliament confirm that mr martin is required to pay back to the european parliament eur 168 000 on the basis of a judgment of the european court of justice for irregular accounting? (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this european stability mechanism is necessary to provide a lasting legal guarantee, to ensure solidarity with countries in difficulty, but also to safeguard the euro, to ensure the necessary budgetary discipline and to resolve growth issues together. this could only be settled by a simplified procedure for amending the treaty, due to the length of time that a normal procedure would have taken and also to avoid a referendum in some member states. the parliament says, however, that this should not become a normal procedure, because the ordinary procedure for amending the treaties should be followed here. the original proposals envisaged this as a purely intergovernmental approach with little role for the commission and no role for the european parliament. we can report to you today that, as a result of the negotiations we have had with the commission, the european central bank, the president of the european council and the president of the eurogroup, on almost all matters, where it is a question of templates, audits, decision-making bases, where it is a question of establishing the framework, proposing a regulation to regulate this in a community procedure, the european council, the council of finance ministers have so far accepted that the european parliament can also play a role in the framework of this procedure and will play a role in these matters. we have not been happy about this from the start, but i believe that if community institutions are used and we can start with intergovernmental procedures as in the past, it will be easy to arrive at a purely community policy when the time comes. the institutional conditions for this are in place, and we can therefore propose to you that we approve this procedure for amending the treaty by the european council and that we start it. we have tabled amendments to this effect, with the unanimous agreement of the committee on constitutional affairs. we must see to it that our interpretations are also accepted and confirmed by letters from the president of the eurogroup and the monetary commissioner, and by a letter from the president of the european council. i believe that this is a reliable basis on which we can agree to this, in order to safeguard the euro, which is a great success for europe, and to move forward together.
in writing. - i saw my task as a member of parliament as to achieve the greatest possible democratic control and involvement of the european stability mechanism in the negotiations. the result is now much better than the original proposal. that's why i'm okay with it. i would like to make my fundamental objections to the course taken: the esm would have required the ordinary treaty amendment procedure. this would have made it possible to set up a community institution with democratic participation and control. the return to the intergovernmental method is fatal. we privatize the profits and socialize the losses. this is a dead end. we let the taxpayers bleed, but we spare the banks, the funds and the speculators. the public sector borrows money from the banks for this purpose. the public sector bears the cost, the private sector does not. without a fundamentally new concept of money and clear legal rules for the banking and financial sectors, we will continue to treat the symptoms without addressing the root causes.
in writing. - i have agreed to this addition to the treaty on european union because it contains logical implications for economic governance and encourages the further integration of the eurozone in the context of a common economic policy. it is also true that no country receives rebates and that there is no difference between good and bad debt. in the sense of a generational contract, debt is always a burden for the succeeding generations, restricting their scope and possibilities for shaping their lives.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, president barroso, commissioner, honourable members, i very much welcome the opportunity to appear before you in advance of the next meeting of the european council. as you know, it will be a very intensive meeting due to the unforeseen events of the last couple of weeks. let me first run you through the main issues on the agenda of the european council. there will be three major items: first a comprehensive economic package which, hopefully, will be adopted by the heads of state and government; then libya and the southern neighbourhood; and thirdly japan. let me start with the economic policy issues. the european council will, i hope, adopt this package in order to respond to the economic and financial crisis. the package has six major elements, the first being the conclusion of the first phase of the european semester, with endorsement of the priorities for fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. as you know, the european semester cycle started early in the year with the presentation of the commission’s annual growth survey. it brings together various policy recommendations required to strengthen recovery, to help europe maintain its international competitiveness and to achieve the eu 2020 objectives. the first phase of the european semester will now be concluded with the endorsement by the european council of the priorities for fiscal consolidation and structural reform, in line with the conclusions prepared by the ecofin and epsco councils. the theme of this report – which was prepared by the presidency – was welcomed by the general affairs council last monday. member states will take these broad policy orientations into account when preparing their stability and convergence programmes and the national reform programmes to be submitted in april. on the basis of the commission’s assessment, the council will subsequently provide its assessment and guidance to the member states in june: that is, at a time when important budgetary decisions are still in a preparatory phase in most member states. the hungarian presidency’s aim is to close the first european semester by the time of the european council in june 2011. the second element is the strengthening of economic governance, and here the european parliament has a decisive role. the council has already taken a major step forward: the ministers for economic and financial affairs have agreed the council’s general approach in relation to the six legislative proposals on reinforcing economic governance. this achievement enables the presidency to start negotiations with this parliament. as you know, the council has to observe a deadline set by the european council – june 2011 – for reaching political agreement on the package. four out of the six proposals are subject to codecision. we know that the deadline imposed by the european council does not, by any means, bind the european parliament, yet i take this solemn opportunity to ask for parliament’s cooperation so that we can reach political agreement by june. it would send reassuring messages to the markets and, most importantly, to our citizens who expect us to safeguard the euro and the european economy with it. so we have a common responsibility with the european parliament in this matter. our prime minster is about to meet the rapporteurs and the coordinators who are responsible for this package and i hope that we will have extremely fruitful cooperation with parliament. the third element is the restoration of the health of the banking sector through the ambitious new stress test. the fourth is the pact for the euro, its extension to member states outside the euro area who wish to join it, and possible announcement of the first national action plans to implement it. the fifth element is finalisation of the work on the future of the european stability mechanism (esm) and on strengthening the european financial stability facility (efsf), building on the agreement in the eurogroup plus ministerial meeting on 21 march, and you all know that the terms of reference of the european stability mechanism mention the fact that information will be provided to parliament. i was especially pleased about that. the sixth element is the treaty amendment, on which you have just voted, and the formal adoption of the decisions amending the treaty on the functioning of the european union with regard to the setting up of the future esm. i would like to thank parliament here for this positive vote: i think it was an extremely important contribution on your part. as you see, real progress has been made in combating the crisis. the european council will finalise this work at its next meeting and adopt a comprehensive package of measures to respond to the crisis, preserve financial stability and lay the ground for sustainable, job-creating growth. let me turn now to libya and the southern neighbourhood. on the basis of the european parliament resolution of 10 march 2011, the european council’s conclusions of 11 march 2011 and un security council resolution 1973, the council has expressed its concerns at the present situation in libya and has condemned the gross and systematic violation of human rights, the violence and brutal repression perpetrated by the regime against the libyan people. the eu’s main aims are protection of the civilian population and support for the libyan people being able to realise their aspirations for a democratic society. colonel gaddafi must relinquish power immediately. his regime has lost legitimacy and is no longer an interlocutor for the eu. so what kind of action has the council taken? first let me mention the sanctions. on 28 february 2011, in record time, the council adopted decisions concerning restrictive measures against the regime. on 10 march further sanctions were added, including an asset freeze, a further travel ban, an arms embargo and an embargo on equipment which might be used for internal repression – thus going beyond the measures imposed by the previously adopted un security council resolution. let me announce a third element: a third round of sanctions. acting upon the mandate given by the foreign affairs council on 21 march, the council has today adopted, by written procedure, the hungarian presidency’s proposal to extend restrictive measures to further libyan individuals and entities, and these sanctions already extend to the national oil company of libya. what else did the council do besides sanctions? the hungarian presidency put the question of emergency supply security on the agenda. ministers discussed the impact of the political crisis on the energy market, energy security and supply. they agreed that the eu has sufficient oil and gas stocks. nevertheless the discussion highlighted, once again, the vulnerability of europe and the need for an even stronger common energy policy, including measures such as diversification of supply routes. the council expressed its satisfaction after the adoption of un security council resolution 1973 and underlined its determination to contribute to its implementation. the council also welcomed the paris summit as a decisive contribution to its implementation. by contributing in a differentiated way, the eu and the member states are determined to act collectively and resolutely with all the international partners, particularly the arab league and other regional stakeholders, to give full effect to these decisions. the council and the member states will support actions under the un security council resolution to protect civilians and civilian population areas under threat of attack.the eu will continue to provide humanitarian assistance to all those affected, and of course – at a later stage – we will have to help libya in building a democratic state and developing the rule of law. the eu is preparing to provide cfsp support and humanitarian assistance in response to a request from the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs and under the coordinating role of the un. such actions will fully respect the un guidelines on the use of military and civil defence assets. the high representative has been asked to develop further planning in accordance with the un resolution and the european council declaration of 11 march on support for humanitarian assistance and civil protection operations, including the use of maritime resources for this purpose. everything should be done in the closest possible cooperation with the un, nato and others. the high representative will maintain contacts with the un secretary-general and countries in the region, including egypt and tunisia, and has stated that this process should be undertaken as a matter of urgency in order to allow further consideration by the european council by the end of this week. furthermore, the member states have underlined once again their solidarity with those of their number most directly affected by migratory movements, and have reiterated their readiness to provide necessary support as the situation evolves. the hungarian presidency put this issue to the justice and home affairs council on 24 and 25 february 2011, and the joint operation hermes has been launched under the frontex framework, with several member states contributing resources. let me mention what has happened on evacuation. as early as 23 february, the presidency activated the eu’s civil protection mechanism to support the evacuation of eu citizens from libya – a decision also supported by the high representative. inspired by the principle of responsibility to protect, set out in the ep resolution, the hungarian presidency is doing its utmost to coordinate the ongoing work, in particular with regard to refugees and migration issues. the hungarian minister for foreign affairs, jános martonyi, and commissioner malmström are currently visiting egypt and its common border with libya. minister martonyi has been to the border and talked to the local authorities and, in a statement made there earlier, he said that without the air strikes an unbearable situation would have evolved. now the situation is under control, thanks to the egyptian authorities. for three days, there has been no outflow of people; some libyans have decided to return but of course the situation is still shaky and we do not know whether there will be further outflows or not. on 3 march i was at the tunisian-libyan border, in the company of commissioner georgieva, to see the state of affairs there. the situation was still very serious: 1000 people per hour were entering tunisia across that border. evacuation was the most important issue on 3 march, and it is still very important that member states help with the repatriation of non-eu citizens, mostly migrant workers. in the absence of a resident european union delegation, the hungarian ambassador in tripoli has been representing the eu. he is there and will not leave; he coordinates the consular and diplomatic efforts on behalf of the member states. on the southern neighbourhood: at its extraordinary meeting on 11 march, the european council declared that democratic uprisings are bringing dramatic changes to the southern neighbourhood, creating new hope and an opportunity to build a future based on democracy, pluralism, the rule of law, human rights and social justice. it has to be stated that aggression is taking place not only in libya: we should be aware that in bahrain and in yemen people are also experiencing aggression, and we have to be very clear that aggression is not acceptable anywhere. it is for the countries in the region to decide their future in a peaceful and democratic way. the eu will support all steps towards democratic transformation to political systems that allow for peaceful changes, growth and prosperity and more proportionate distribution of the benefits of economic performance. the eu will consult with the countries of the region that are concerned on financial and technical support for improving the control and management of borders, as well as measures to facilitate the return of migrants to their countries of origin. the council, in cooperation with the commission, was invited to submit – before the june european council – a plan for the development of capacities to manage migration and refugee flows. the european council broadly welcomed the joint communication from the commission and the high representative proposing a partnership for democracy and shared prosperity in the southern mediterranean, following a differentiated and incentive-based approach and bringing together all eu instruments. the council was invited rapidly to examine the proposals contained in the communication and, in particular, to consider how the union’s support for its partners could be enhanced. i will conclude with a rapid presentation of the ideas on which very swift action is needed. we have to increase the ceiling for european investment bank operations for mediterranean countries undertaking political reform –parliament will have a role on this issue and i count on your cooperation. we have to adopt the commission proposal to allow the eib to reinvest within the femip funds flowing from past operations. we have to examine, with other stakeholders, conditions under which the european bank for reconstruction and development could operate in the southern neighbourhood, and we have to adopt without delay the proposal on pan-euro-mediterranean rules of origin, which is essential for further development of the region. lastly, adoption by june 2011 of the regulation enhancing the capabilities of frontex is, i think, a must. i will stop there. i will not speak on japan because we now have a new item on the agenda. i am sorry if my speech was a bit too long. the reason is that a lot of things have happened and i wanted parliament to have a comprehensive picture of all the issues.
president of the commission. − mr president, as i said last week to this parliament, what europe will put in place at this european council on 24-25 march will be a real game-changer in terms of economic governance. in other words, it will be a cornerstone in our comprehensive response to the crisis, and will mark the beginning of its full implementation with the setting up of a new economic governance framework – and, hopefully, a european monetary union (emu) walking on its two legs (the monetary union and the economic union) instead of limping along. the economic policy of each member state is now recognised as a matter that should concern all member states and all european institutions. for the first time – with the european semester – we have the tools we need for early and strong coordination of our economic policies and structural reforms, before each member state sets its own policies and budget for the next year. not only do we have ex ante coordination, but we can do it in parallel with the economic policy and budgetary policy. the first european semester kicked off earlier in january with the commission’s annual growth survey, which presents 10 priorities for this year, all firmly anchored in the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs. they are intended to promote fiscal consolidation, correct macroeconomic imbalances, and ensure financial stability – all prerequisites for sound growth. in itself those policies will not deliver growth, but it is quite clear that without those prerequisites we will not have the kind of growth we need: sustainable inclusive growth. the pact for the euro, agreed by heads of state and government of the euro area and open to all member states wishing to join, reflects the priority actions of our annual growth survey, but now the pact for the euro, as it was agreed, is also fully compatible with the treaty and will be fully integrated in the european system of economic governance. once again i want to thank this parliament because i believe the strong positions taken by this parliament were very important to assure that the community approach could also be recognised in the pact for the euro. the pact for the euro also recognises the commission’s work on taxation and financial regulation. in fact as you know, the commission is working on a proposal to tax the financial sector. every member state, when implementing the stability and growth pact, must follow the recommendations of the commission. as decided last week, and i quote: ‘in deciding on the steps in the stability and growth pact the council is expected to, as a rule, follow the recommendations of the commission or explain its position in writing’. this is the principle of 11 march 2011. i think it is a very important political principle that can be added to the important legislative decisions that have been taken, and also some that you are now preparing. fiscal consolidation is not an end in itself. without fiscal consolidation there is no confidence. without confidence there are no investments. without investments there is no growth. but our target, as i said in this parliament several times before, is growth: sustainable inclusive growth. for that we also need to improve the business environment. we need to complete the internal market. one of the goals we have in the internal market is precisely the different bases in terms of taxation. that is why the commission has proposed, and has now tabled, a legislative proposal for a common corporate consolidated tax base. we need indeed to tap the full potential of the single market, and the commission will soon put forward the single market act with a set of a dozen priority proposals to put our biggest asset to work, to deliver growth and jobs and reinforce europe’s competitiveness. we also have to do more to foster employment. we need more labour mobility, not less mobility. we need more promotion of tax incentives to work and we want growth that is employment-enhancing and employment-friendly. in close cooperation with the commission, member states are now finalising their national reform programmes as well as their stability or convergence programmes. let me stress that having clear, concrete, ambitious, nationally-owned programmes is essential to the successful implementation of the european semester. so it is now up to each member state to have this serious work completed by the end of april. last week the council agreed on its general approach to the commission’s legislative package on reinforced economic governance. i would again like to thank the hungarian presidency for all its efforts which led to a successful compromise. now negotiations will start with parliament. i know that the commission can count on strong support from this house, and i hope we will have a final agreement by june. then our new economic framework would be fully in place and all its tools could be used to assess national budgets, stability and convergence programmes, as well as national reform programmes by 2012. finally, with the current european financial stability fund, and by 2013 the permanent european stability mechanism (esm), we will have a backstop tool to guarantee the stability of the euro area as a whole, if needed. last monday the finance ministers agreed to set up the european stability mechanism from june 2013 with effective lending capacity of eur 500 billion. this is a major step forward for the european union which the commission, as you know, has been strongly promoting. following our proposals, the agreement for the future esm clearly states the central role of the commission in the process, as well as the implication of the european parliament. it will be for the commission to assess, in liaison with the european central bank (ecb), the existence of a risk to the financial stability of the euro area as a whole and to undertake analysis of the sustainability of the public debt of the member state concerned. further, it will be for the european commission to take the lead in assessing the actual financing needs of the beneficiary member state, as well as the nature of the required private sector involvement. it will be also for the european commission to propose to the council a decision endorsing the macroeconomic adjustment programme. the european commission, together with the imf and in liaison with the ecb, will be responsible for monitoring compliance with the policy conditionality required by a macroeconomic adjustment programme. the policy conditionality established under an enhanced surveillance or a macroeconomic adjustment programme will be consistent with the european union surveillance framework and must guarantee the respect of european union procedures, and thereby also the role of the european parliament. to this end, the commission intends to propose a regulation of the european parliament and of the council based on article 136 of the treaty clarifying the necessary procedural steps in order to enshrine the policy conditionality in council decisions and ensure consistency with the european union multilateral surveillance framework. the council and the commission will inform the european parliament on a regular basis about the establishment and the operations of the esm. honourable members, i just want to confirm what was said in a letter by commissioner rehn and the president of the eurogroup, jean-claude juncker, to you, president buzek. i think at the end we have an agreement that is fully compatible with a community approach and i want once again to thank parliament for its interest and commitment to that approach. on the financial stabilisation front, member states have eventually acknowledged the degree of interdependence of their economies. the european union has already done a lot towards repairing the banking system, but here also we need to do more. a healthy banking system is a prerequisite for a sustainable economic recovery. the next round of eu-wide bank stress tests will be conducted in the next months by the newly established european bank authority (eba). transparency is essential so that policy-makers and investors can make informed judgements; so is the willingness to follow through with tough indispensable decisions. i think after the very comprehensive and good report by mrs győri, representing the hungarian presidency, i will not now elaborate on the issues regarding libya and the southern mediterranean. however, let me tell you, as regards the european commission’s competence, that we have been playing a substantial role in coordinating the european response to the escalating humanitarian crisis on the libyan borders. we have mobilised eur 30 million to provide assistance to refugees and migrants and, as you know, we have several teams on the ground and we maintain close contact with countries of origin and donors. the commission’s civil protection mechanism (mic) is also continuing to support member states’ consular operations; and working closely with the hungarian presidency, commissioner malmström and commissioner georgieva have also been very active on this matter. the no-fly zone military actions, implemented pursuant to un security council resolution 1973, brought about new circumstances that need to be factored in when delivering humanitarian assistance in a secure and efficient way to those in need, either at the borders or inside libya. it brought new hope as well as addressing the need to spare civilian innocent lives. while dealing with the short-term challenges of this fast-changing and extremely complex situation, we are not losing sight of our long-term goal of a democratic stable prosperous southern mediterranean region based on the commission proposal on partnership for democracy and shared prosperity. the commission’s civil protection mechanism is also coordinating the european union’s response to japan’s request for assistance. since last friday we have reinforced our presence on the ground with a civil protection team composed of logistics and nuclear experts. specifically on nuclear issues, it is important to draw lessons from the events in japan. that is why the european commission proposed to review the safety of nuclear sites and the comprehensive risk and safety assessment (‘stress test’) on all european nuclear sites. these stress tests should also be carried out in all our neighbouring countries and beyond, under the responsibility of the iaea. i hope of course that the european council will confirm and endorse this orientation. honourable members, as you see, we have a very full agenda for the next european council and the commission has been working hard to develop this comprehensive european response to the crisis outside our borders, but also regarding the economic situation. we will, together with the european parliament, play a central role in the implementation of the comprehensive response to the economic crisis. we will do this always in the spirit of the lisbon treaty, that is, in close coordination with your parliament. and you can be sure that we will always live up to this responsibility as well.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not first of all, mr president of the commission, i would like to congratulate you on your birthday. i think you deserve to be congratulated on that. (applause from the centre) i cannot share your joy before this summit. i believe that this is a summit taking place in the worst phase, in the worst state of the european union. it starts with libya: rarely has an action been prepared as hastily and unstructuredly as this action, which is actually good and is supposed to help people and which now ends in a diplomatic and - i hope not, but possibly - military disaster - hastily, uncoordinated, unorderly. europe is running away in all directions and our candidate for accession, turkey, is blocking everything. i'm very happy for you. we are in a situation where we have to take stock. it's been a year since this crisis, and it's been a year since the same process has been going on. the necessary is first denied, then recognized with a delay of 4 to 5 months. 'the greeks should help themselves' was the message a year ago. we don't need to help. four months later, the rescue mechanism. we don't need a life raft. what we have provided is enough. four months later: "we need more money". we do not want eurobonds. eurobonds are bullshit. the debate on eurobonds is raging in all directions. the eurobonds will come, i'm sure of it. possibly four months late. we don't need a business government. europe does not need an economic government. the same people who made this claim with penetration are celebrating at a european council meeting that we now finally have an economic government. and they're not even ashamed to say and do the opposite of what they say they're going to do. i do not know whether we have saved the community method yet. i hope so. we support you in this, mr barroso. not just as a birthday present, but because it is true that europe must defend the community method, because we see that when we come to this other method, which chancellor merkel calls the 'new european method', we have exactly what i have just described: everyone does this and the next day the opposite of what he announced the day before yesterday. this is the reality. we are not dealing with a crisis of the euro; we are dealing with a crisis of the governments of the euro states. that's a big difference! we all talk about portugal and hope that the government will be able to enforce the really unlikely harsh measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the federal republic of germany, the federal minister for finance - a pro-european - is putting together a package that we all need a few days before this summit, and then the foreign minister and the federal chancellor say: 'well, we have to talk about this again.' last friday i had the opportunity to speak with many leading figures in european finance about the question 'does the euro have confidence?' the answer from the people in frankfurt with whom i spoke - including the president of the ecb and the president of the eurogroup, but also many other leading bankers - was: yes, the euro is a stable currency. the euro enjoys confidence and we have confidence in the euro. but we have no confidence in the governments of the countries that have adopted the euro. because how can you trust a government that doesn't keep its word for three days? other this is the problem we are fighting in europe. we're going the wrong way. the euro is a strong currency. it is also the expression of the economic power of the eurozone in competition with other continents. the euro was introduced at $1.17. look at where the euro is today. the euro is a stable currency in the intercontinental competition of economic zones, but it is destabilised internally because there is no stable form of government. the community method is therefore not just a subject for discussion in the european parliament, but the basis for the stabilisation of the currency, which is the expression of the enormous economic power of the eurozone. but this economic power cannot develop because it is managed by people who care more about the latest poll results for the next regional elections than about the future of the european currency. that is the reality we are facing. i hope everything goes well this weekend. i hope your announcements will be implemented. i hope we can come home with a successful summit. but i have my doubts and fears that we will continue to see what we have been seeing for a year now - i am sorry, i have to say this - a blunt leadership of the european union! (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the stability and growth pact has failed, and this is the consensus of many experts across party lines. the problem is that the policy does not seem to be so far! in fact, no new policy concepts are visible. the 3% ceiling of the stability pact has been breached 73 times since 1999, 46 times this would have been hardly tolerable under the treaty, and not once has a penalty been imposed. the aim is not to change the pact, which is not working, but to implement it better, or rather, at all. of course, every housewife and every businesswoman knows the importance of sustainable household management. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european stability mechanism. but that is not the same as sustainable households! no country that is so deeply in debt that it is on the verge of insolvency can escape from the debt trap if it continues to finance itself with high-interest loans. however much he saves, the debt continues to rise - all the more so as wages, unemployment benefits and pensions are cut, working hours are extended, public investment in infrastructure, education, health, etc. is reduced. because if no one can consume, production must collapse. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. what should be more clearly emphasized in the whole package of measures is the reference to the additional need for investment, particularly in countries threatened by crisis, beyond credit extensions and small interest rate cuts. the need to reduce current account imbalances is problematic as long as it only requires action by economically weak countries, while economically strong ones are allowed to continue as before. not only is the keyword 'solidarity' nowhere to be found, but it is also forgotten that expenditure and current account deficits on the one hand are revenues and current account surpluses on the other.
i have to say, madam president, it has been said here that it is not the euro that is in crisis, but our member states, which have accumulated debts. because that is the core of the crisis - irresponsible debt-making over many years. this is what has to end now. it is therefore right that the european stability mechanism should impose strict conditions. it is therefore right that this has been the case with the previous rescue mechanisms. it is therefore right that ireland has not received a reduction in the rate of interest. this debt-making must end! i am hearing from the social democrats again a distinction between good and bad debt. yes, of course, investment is different from consumption. but eventually, too much good debt becomes bad debt. we need generational justice, we need sustainability in public finances, and then the euro will also become stable again. the euro pact is not a community method. that has been said here and i am absolutely right. i share that view. the council has endorsed resolution 1973 on libya. we have to look forward now. i agree with mr salafranca sánchez-neyra when he says that france has played a very good role. but turkey should have been invited to the elysée summit, otherwise we would not have these problems in nato, and the situation would be much easier for all of us. i hope that the newly appointed head of the libyan transitional government will soon be able to be received here in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the american political scientist samuel huntington once predicted the clash of civilizations. if we had trusted that, then we would have brought about this clash of civilizations ourselves in the sense of a self-fulfilling prophecy. we in the european parliament have always been committed to cooperation with the arab states and their peoples. now we see people in the arab world seeking the same values that we do: democracy, freedom and the rule of law. who could have expected just a few weeks ago that the arab league would call on us, the western and international community, to stop the tyrants in libya? this is a huge change that is happening in the arab world. we can't make any mistakes now. we must not only rhetorically stand by the people of the arab countries, but we must also be consistent in our words and deeds. i shall be travelling to tunisia this evening on behalf of the konrad adenauer foundation, of which i am chairman, as i was in cairo two and a half weeks ago. and i would like to quote the words of konrad adenauer, the first chancellor of the federal republic of germany, who said: 'we are on the side of freedom.' we must now say to the arab peoples: we want if you want to help you with democratic consultation, with solidarity, so that you can prepare for elections. we are shocked to learn that a terrorist attack has been carried out in jerusalem today, and many people have been injured. we condemn this in the strongest terms, whoever the perpetrator or perpetrators may have been. but we also say there must be peace between israel and palestine now. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this is our task in the great change taking place in the arab world: to make our contribution as the european union and to do so in unity and together. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in his letter of invitation to the european council, mr van rompuy writes that we will begin our working dinner by taking stock of events in libya and in the southern neighbouring countries. i hope that no one is choking on this, but that we send clear messages about our objectives and also common messages to gaddafi, to the people of libya, but also to our own public, which is irritated by disunity in the face of a dictator's claim to power. it is right to extend our blacklists to certain individuals and also to freeze the accounts of the libyan national oil company. i would also have liked the eu to have remembered its own decisions on capabilities and capacities instead of nato, and to have been able to enforce the arms embargo with the naval forces of its member states. it's our neighborhood, after all. we would then have avoided the stress of the last few days with turkey in nato and relieved our american allies. now i hope that the planning of eu humanitarian missions will not only focus on the reception of war refugees on the egyptian and tunisian side of the libyan border, but that we will also be active in humanitarian aid in parts of libya that have already freed themselves from gaddafi. i think that is necessary to make clear to the people of tripoli what our intentions are. i would like to say to my colleague from the greek communists that i have just heard from moscow that stalin is dead, that new directives from the politburo are on their way but have apparently not yet reached you.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, on behalf of the council i want to begin by conveying our condolences to the people of japan, those who have lost loved ones and the many others who have been touched in one way or another by the tragic events over 10 days ago. i also pay tribute to the courage and fortitude of those who are now struggling to tackle the consequences of the terrible earthquake and tsunami, as well as those endeavouring to deal with the consequences of the nuclear incident. the european union stands alongside the japanese people at this extraordinarily difficult and challenging time. we have already provided japan with assistance in a very concrete way. on the very day that the earthquake struck, the european council asked the high representative and the commission to mobilise all appropriate assistance. the european civil protection mechanism was activated in order to help coordinate assistance offered by the member states. within a very short time the european union was responding to requests for assistance from the japanese government. the european union stands ready to continue to answer calls for humanitarian assistance, technical support of any kind or more specialised assistance that the japanese authorities may consider appropriate. on behalf of the council, i would like in particular to thank commissioner georgieva and the high representative for a swift, comprehensive and very coordinated response to the disaster. the eu civil protection team deployed in japan has our full support. individual member states have also been prepared to make very generous offers of assistance. it is also important to mention that the council will need to follow up on the macroeconomic impact of the japanese crisis. ministers already had a preliminary debate on the matter at the ecofin breakfast on 15 march. obviously one of the main concerns for us all is the situation at the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant. i would like to stress the fact that the hungarian presidency acted without delay, taking into account the gravity of the events and the possible effects in europe, especially regarding the nuclear risk. we promptly convened the working party on atomic questions and an extraordinary energy council in order to assess the situation in japan, as well as its possible repercussions on the eu, and reflect on the eu response. i would like to underline that the first message to come from the council was one of solidarity, compassion and readiness to provide humanitarian as well as technical assistance. this message is also one of respect for the tenacity and the resilience of the japanese people, especially those who are still struggling to cope with the situation in fukushima. it is thanks to their tenacity in extremely difficult conditions that one can now see some hope regarding the situation of the nuclear plant, although it remains serious. the major problem now is the high level of contamination that has been measured in the vicinity of the plant. our support to japan needs to continue. several member states are making a contribution, either bilaterally or through various coordination mechanisms operated by the commission or the international atomic energy agency. as the hungarian minister for rural development, sándor fazekas, was told at the meeting of the environment ministers, for the moment the events at fukushima nuclear plant have no consequences for the population in the eu. radiation levels in all member states are normal and appropriate controls are in place regarding foodstuffs imported from japan. however, the accident at the fukushima nuclear plant calls for an effective eu response. there are certain lessons to be learned from this accident. implementing and continually improving the high standards for nuclear safety is a top priority for eu regulators and operators; but the very concept of continuous improvement implies that we need to draw the lessons first, despite the fact that the accident was caused by external factors and not by malfunctions at the plant. several member states and industry operators have already decided to review the safety of the nuclear plants, which should be welcomed. following the extraordinary council of energy ministers on 21 march, the hungarian national development minister, tamás fellegi, has written to brief president van rompuy on the proposal for stress tests for nuclear power plants and for other countries, particularly our neighbours, to be associated with this exercise. the scope and modalities for the test should be developed in light of recent events and making full use of the available expertise. as to the scope, noting that each nuclear plant has its own specificities, the following core areas could possibly be addressed by the assessment: flood risk, seismic risk, backup systems and emergency procedures. the european nuclear safety regulatory group, with the full involvement of the member states, will define the modalities of this assessment in consultation with the relevant stakeholders. whilst it is difficult to set a firm date for this, it is clear that it needs to get under way as soon as possible. the issue of the safety of nuclear plants obviously does not stop at the eu’s borders. this is why it is important to involve neighbouring third countries. an assessment needs to cover both existing and planned plants, and we must make full use of international organisations and bodies, like the international atomic energy agency, and other international associations like the g20 to involve other countries. it is obviously important that the message to the public regarding the situation in japan is clear. i have two comments on this. first, the credibility of the exercise depends on our being transparent about the modalities and outcome of the assessment. second, however serious the situation in japan is, we should not give the impression that the issue of nuclear safety is being addressed piecemeal and only now. it is important to recall that there has been a legally binding framework in place in europe for over 25 years. as far as the specific nuclear issue is concerned the council will obviously be following closely the developments and will in any case return to the matter in june. the european council later this week will take stock of the situation in japan in the aftermath of this tragedy. i have no doubt that our heads of state and government will want to express their continued solidarity with the people of japan as i do now. the european union will continue to stand ready to provide whatever assistance we can to help them through this difficult time. once again, i salute their courage and determination.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has expressed the union's solidarity with the japanese people and the japanese government. we have expressed our condolences. we believe that the courage and steadfastness of the japanese people deserve our full respect and admiration. we have aid operations in coordination, which are bundled by the observatory and information centre to make a joint offer of assistance from the eu. the eu has also been involved in the development of a new strategy for the protection of the environment and the environment. we are awaiting further offers and will be receiving and distributing aid in japan these days, thursday, tomorrow and friday. i am sure that the commission will be present. we also offered to help with the nuclear power plant center, but we don't have any requests for help yet. we are in close contact with the international atomic energy agency in vienna on energy and we are closely monitoring, assessing and analysing the security situation in japan. further information is needed to assess the consequences of the nuclear accident. we are building these days on the japanese engineers and technicians and the government getting control of this nuclear power plant center and preventing further damage in this disaster. we shall see what conclusions can be drawn for europe. we have held a high-level conference on this last tuesday with all the member states, with all the energy companies operating nuclear power stations, with all the companies producing nuclear power stations and with the nuclear regulators of the european member states. on monday, at the invitation of mr fellegi, the president-in-office of the council held an extraordinary meeting of the energy council. we must recognize that the starting point and the positions of the member states on the subject of nuclear power stations in europe are very different. fourteen countries have nuclear power stations, 13 of which are permanent from the point of view of their energy policy, germany with an exit strategy. 13 countries do not have nuclear power, of which two countries - poland and italy - are currently planning to enter or re-enter nuclear energy. the energy mix is, with the exception of renewables, keyword 20% within the competence of national legislation and policy. we respect that. in this very heterogeneous starting point of europe 30% of europe's electricity mix is nuclear, but in austria the share of nuclear is approaching 0%, and in france it is 80%. we have two common denominators: the one we come back to during the year is infrastructure. whatever developments are envisaged in the field of energy policy, the infrastructure for electricity, gas and storage capacity must be developed rapidly, with new quality and new capacity. and secondly, safety. the safety of industrial plants in general, of infrastructure in general and of nuclear power stations in particular is a common concern for the benefit of workers in power stations, for the benefit of european citizens and for the european nature. we therefore propose to examine whether, in view of the causes now identified and the deepening knowledge of the causes from japan, a safety check, a stress test, an extraordinary examination on the basis of common standards and criteria, with the aim of further reducing the risks in the 143 nuclear power stations operating in the european union, and for possible new construction measures in the european union, are not both sensible and appropriate. security is for all citizens, whether the member state in which they live has nuclear power, plans to have nuclear power, wants to get out of nuclear power or does not have nuclear power. the main issues are: floods and operational and safety hazards, earthquakes and japanese experience, cooling systems and their functionality, and the issue of electricity supply and emergency generators in a staggered manner so that even in the event of earthquakes and floods and other hazards, more cooling can be maintained by means of electricity and emergency generators. the criteria are general for all nuclear power stations and specific criteria for construction, age, location, earthquake hazards, flood hazards and more. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the use of the euro in the context of the single currency. we, the commission, are proposing that the member states prepare and coordinate this together with the nuclear regulatory authorities. the whole thing is an offer, and acceptance is voluntary. member states are responsible for deciding whether to carry out a common general and specific stress test in europe. the previous speaker spoke of neighbouring countries which are just as important for our security, to mention switzerland as central, as well as ukraine, armenia, turkey, the russian federation. i had a long phone call with the ukrainian energy minister. he said he would be happy to participate if there was a general stress test for the european union - so it was an offer from him. clearly, our authority to conduct a stress test outside the european union and its member states depends very much on whether we conduct it together in europe. if some member states should not participate, our authority as an offer to turkey, ukraine, russia, switzerland is less than if all of them together see this as an important security task. that is why we will be preparing these safety criteria in the coming weeks and we are happy to cooperate with parliament, but also with all the parties involved in the european union, ngos, energy companies, workers, technicians, engineers in the power stations, with the aim of further reducing risk and increasing safety as far as possible. we are grateful that president sarkozy wants to address this at the g20 and thus to bring about a global response to nuclear power stations not only in europe but throughout the world. so much for the moment on our side. we are happy to inform parliament at any time of the next steps through its committees - as we have done in recent days - the committee on the environment, the committee on industry and energy, and we expect the european council to give us the necessary support here in brussels tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the power of nature has been brought back to our minds, and we see the limits of human ability and the helplessness we feel in the face of these great forces of nature. in such moments we can only express our solidarity with the japanese people, a solidarity which is expressed in our thoughts and prayers, but also in practical help. the commissioner has pointed out that providing aid, trying to relieve people and supporting people is an important measure that not only provides direct aid but also provides comfort. i also know that it is not just the government organizations, but that in europe many citizens are willing to donate, to give private money. in my home town alone - i am the patron - 50,000 euros were raised in three days and the campaign is not over yet. this is happening all over europe. that shows that there is a high level of support. at the same time, we should be careful not to stop and use this from the first push of a button for domestic political struggles. but there is no doubt that we must look at the experience and lessons of the nuclear accident and carry out the stress test, commissioner, and i hope to do it at european level, because borders do not matter when accidents happen. we must also ensure that the necessary infrastructure is created for alternatives and that research is carried out on possible new energy projects, and this also addresses issues of climate change, jobs and competitiveness. we must also see that the word 'restricted risk' will play a different role. the trust of the people that companies follow all the rules and nothing is unpredictable is no longer visible. japan will change our thinking on these issues and therefore the issue of residual risk will have to be re-examined, it will have to have new consequences and it will have to bring new considerations and new policies. we should discuss this with the necessary calm.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. of course we must help japan in this situation as best we can and with all the means at our disposal. a country like japan, which is being hit by such a plague, needs all the support it can get. but i find it remarkable how lightly we praise heroes in japan. i think we don't realize that those we call "heroes" know better than anyone else that they are putting their lives at risk and that many of those who are fighting against the nuclear fire in fukushima are devotees of death. no people in the world knows better than the japanese what a nuclear disaster will do. they are shaped by hiroshima and nagasaki in their history. every child in japan knows what the consequences of a nuclear meltdown look like. we should be aware of this when we talk about japan. the whole horror that lies not only in this situation but that is yet to come is more conscious to the japanese than to anyone else. perhaps the ukrainians, who have known for 25 years that part of their country is a devastated country, can really speak up. the european debate today, for me, is about talking, unlike 25 years ago, about the political consequences we must face when we realise that in our countries we are dealing with a technology which, in case of doubt, is out of control and not only destroys the past in certain regions, destroys the present, but seizes the future, the future of all those who live in the vicinity and in the wider environment of these installations. i don't think we're doing that yet when we talk about stress tests, mr. oettinger. we must be much more frank about the fact that in the european union too we have very often been confronted with situations close to nuclear meltdown in the installations we operate. i would like to mention them briefly: tihange in belgium, civaux in france, philippsburg in germany, kosloduj in bulgaria, paks in hungary, brunsbüttel with a hydrogen explosion in germany, forsmark in sweden, barsebäck in sweden, blayais in france, krümmel in germany - there have been the most glaring accidents for various reasons, in which we have been close to a nuclear meltdown since chernobyl. how are we to deal with the fact that any plant we operate may have a meltdown accident? stress tests? i think they're only relevant if they lead us to design a plan for what assets and what risks defined therein we're going to get out of this high-risk technology. if these stress tests are meant to appease and to suggest once again that we in europe can never be in the situations we are experiencing in japan today, then i think these stress tests are wrong. we are also very happy to discuss who defines stress tests - they cannot be the operators of nuclear installations - and who carries them out and evaluates them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
i have to say, madam president, the threat of the superga is still present in japan. radiation levels at the fukushima nuclear plant are rising sharply. the uncontrollability of nuclear power is once again becoming horribly clear. that is why we call for an immediate phase-out of nuclear energy. nuclear energy is for the benefit of the electricity companies, but in the event of an accident, the citizens bear the risk. the eu must therefore urgently require liability insurance for the operation of nuclear power stations. there must be adequate cover for all damage to health, property and property in all member states. the european union should finally stop promoting nuclear energy and end the euratom treaty. billions of taxpayer dollars are still pouring into a dangerous high-risk technology, while safe alternatives like renewable energy remain underfunded.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the resettlement programme was the subject on which we worked very intensively and with great urgency and in which we put a great deal of energy across all the political groups. we agreed, we sent a signal. and that's why we've been working on this as a top priority, because it's just a very important issue: it's about people. nevertheless, the situation and the developments we have seen in north africa have made it necessary once again to come to a decision very quickly. we've already lost a year. we have really used the time to also stimulate social debate in society, because we ultimately need the support of the member states, the local authorities and the local population to establish a programme like this in new member states. and this debate, this social consensus, which has been growing bit by bit, must not stop now just because the council and other actors are not moving forward. this issue is too important! we have started this debate and we want to make it a priority, particularly as liberals. i think we are in agreement here across the political groups. we have sent a signal and we are waiting for the council to make a clear statement, to put the issue on the agenda, to involve and motivate the other member states which have not been active so far. we have also received feedback in the dialogues that the member states are showing willingness. the great request of the liberals in this respect - but i think i speak for all the groups involved, because there was really good cooperation - is to give priority to this and to continue the discourse we have achieved at a broad social level and not to jeopardise it by postponing the subject again and again.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, resettlement is an important instrument in dealing with refugees. other countries such as the us resettle thousands of refugees on their territory every year. resettlement is for people who have not reached, or have not tried to reach, the european union to apply for asylum here, so for all the heads of state who are constantly saying that we should tackle migration where it originates before it ends up in the european union, this should be the perfect instrument. however, instead of the eu, it is countries that are much poorer than any of the eu member states that take in and host great numbers of refugees, such as pakistan and syria. since these countries lack reception facilities, many refugees have to endure unacceptable conditions. the eu can and should help here. the resettlement of iraqi refugees in the eu has shown that it works. however, the number of iraqi refugees accepted was ridiculously small. many more internationally-recognised refugees need a fair chance for a new life, and i find it incredible that the council and commission try to prevent parliament from exercising its parliamentary rights. i do not find it acceptable if you are saying that we are delaying the process: it was just us who are trying to implement our normal parliamentary rights. i think it is you, the council, that is delaying it by means of not granting us these rights. this is not only our right, but also our duty as elected representatives of the european people. i would like to know your practical, precise timetable for overcoming the difficulties that you have encountered. are you personally committing yourself to putting this issue on the agenda as soon as possible? we are losing time every day. there are other instruments that would be a great asset in the current situation. resettlement could also play a role in the long run when we are tackling the situation in north africa, but there are also other instruments we have in place which are not being used. for instance, the directive on temporary protection or the internal distribution of refugees. these are instruments that are in place but are being not used. that leaves me with the impression that member states are not willing to protect human rights, that they are timid when it comes to international protection. i would like to know what how you are trying to put the common asylum system into place by 2012, because that seems to be rather late to me.
mr tavares, i hope you will follow me, but we are so late, you have already been deprived of the floor. the debate is closed.
the next item is the council and commission statements on us mandatory subpoenas and eu data protection rules.
the president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. parliament also expressed the concern of many european citizens when it drew attention to the fact that the us authorities were requesting data from media companies following the leak of us state secrets by wikileaks. the council naturally shares parliament's concerns about respecting eu data protection rules. however, it does not have information to determine whether the us court proceedings infringed eu data protection law. in the case of wikileaks, which has been referred to by several members of congress, the attorney general of the united states has publicly acknowledged that a criminal investigation is underway. i understand that in connection with this investigation, u.s. prosecutors are pushing for a u.s. court order to order twitter to hand over certain data, and the court has ordered that twitter hand over certain data. it is not for the council to comment on the way in which the judicial authorities of the united states take their decisions. moreover, it has no information which would call into question the validity of a reasoned court decision. there have been court cases in the united states where twitter has been able to defend its position. this is also evidenced by the fact that the us court granted twitter's request to inform its customers about the court decision. the european union generally respects the judicial procedures of third countries. and it goes without saying that prosecutors, when investigating a suspected crime, need to get information. it is also a well-known fact that the procedure in the united states for obtaining information differs from the procedure followed in most eu member states. firstly, because it is more extensive, i.e. it allows for much more information to be requested from many more persons than a european criminal investigation or procedure in general. this is simply a consequence of the development of the law in the united states and is therefore not a matter on which the council should express an opinion. the commission should be able to impose a maximum period of five years for the submission of requests for access to the data. those authorities should ensure that data protection rules are respected and should be competent to deal with issues of jurisdiction and compatibility with european or national data protection laws. it would not be appropriate to make political judgments on cases which are examined in the context of judicial proceedings. in the wider context of the matter, the council is not aware of any previous judicial decision of this kind. in the past, when the us authorities sought to obtain information on eu citizens held in the eu, the eu negotiated an international agreement with the us on the transfer and processing of that information. this is the case, for example, with the pnr file, for which there is a pnr agreement concluded with the united states in 2007 and which is currently being renegotiated, at the initiative of parliament. similarly, the transfer of financial message data stored in the european union for the purposes of the tftp, a programme of the us treasury department to detect the financing of terrorism. the tftp agreement on this was approved by parliament in july 2010. finally, i would like to emphasize that the twitter case is very different from the pnr or tftp case. in the latter two cases, the united states authorities systematically and continuously request personal data for law enforcement purposes, in particular for the purpose of combating terrorism. in contrast, the twitter case is a specific court decision issued by a court in the context of a specific criminal investigation. it is important that we respect the decisions of the courts of another country as much as possible. unless, of course, there is a reason to believe otherwise. thank you very much, mr. president.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, in a globalised world, the protection of personal data transferred to third countries is an increasingly important and legally very complex issue. it goes without saying that the fundamental right to the protection of personal data also applies in the electronic world and in cross-border data processing. nevertheless, as with other fundamental rights, there may be limitations to this right; any such limitations must comply with the law and they must be proportionate. they must also be justified by legitimate interests: national security, public safety, prevention of disorder or crime, protection of health or morals and so on. under us law, a subpoena is an administrative order compelling an individual to provide a state or local administrative agency with specific information. the legality of an act must be determined on the basis of the law of the country where the act is carried out. therefore, the assessment of the legality, proportionality and necessity of the us government’s requests must be based on the us constitution and its legal system. the commission has no competence as regards the manner in which a third country applies its judicial procedure in investigating suspected criminal activities. when european citizens use twitter, they express their consent to twitter’s privacy policy. this policy describes its procedures on the collection, use and disclosure of personal information to third parties, including when it is necessary in order to comply with laws, regulations or legal requests from the us government. furthermore, as these personal data are sought from twitter by the us authorities in the context of criminal investigations, the eu’s data protection legislation is not applicable. the eu’s data protection directive does not apply to state activities in the area of criminal law, nor does a framework decision on data protection in police and judicial cooperation apply in this case, given that no eu member state authority is involved in executing the us court order and that no personal data is transmitted or made available by the competent authority of another member state. so that is how the law stands today. the global dimension of data processing should not, however, imply a lowering of the level of protection for eu citizens. indeed, global processing activity demonstrates how important and necessary it is to protect data subject rights and clarify the applicable rules. this is particularly important nowadays, when more and more data are in the cloud. so what are we going to do about this? first, the commission’s forthcoming proposal to reform the eu data protection framework will focus in particular on the challenges posed by globalisation and modern technologies, most of all when third-country operators target eu consumers. second, as you know, on 3 december 2010, the council gave the commission a solid mandate with clearly defined eu objectives for negotiating the future eu-us data protection agreement in the area of police and judicial cooperation. one of the eu’s main objectives in the forthcoming negotiations is to ensure enforceable data protection rights to data subjects on both sides of the atlantic, regardless of nationality, and providing effective administrative and judicial redress. i am counting on parliament to help this happen. so what are we doing in the meantime, before that new instrument becomes effective? i would strongly recommend that operators be very transparent upstream with their consumers and that they indicate clearly that their service is operating primarily under us law as far as criminal investigations are concerned. therefore it is clear that consumers are leaving eu jurisdiction even if they do not leave eu territory themselves.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to thank the council and the commission for their explanations. it's a typical situation that we find in this globalized world right now. the basic point is that we naturally respect american law. it is also true that we are aware of the difficulties that arise with the global medium of the internet and with law enforcement. but it's a very typical behavior that we have to respond to these days, that law enforcement agencies are accessing the databases of private individuals. that is why you have spoken to me, madam commissioner, very sincerely, because that is also my idea of how we should proceed, namely that we should regulate this issue in a future own data protection update, but at the same time also take such a case as this as an opportunity to say that we also want to regulate the eu-us data protection framework agreement and also to push this forward, because we see that in this global world there is a need to regulate such transfers of data. so, as i said, it's important to stay focused on that. we do not want this to cast a negative light on the processing of data in general, but it is good to set an example here, to develop good laws, to continue the framework agreement and, in particular, to shed more light on this aspect of law enforcement in relation to access to data held by private individuals, and to regulate under what conditions this should be allowed and under what conditions it should be stopped.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i would like to say that this is another case of several where we are debating the fact that there are different legal cultures on both sides of the atlantic, particularly when it comes to personal data, and particularly when it comes to police and judicial cooperation. i find it rather shocking that the council has responded that twitter is located on the territory of the united states and that therefore what is happening there is of no concern to us in terms of measures and, so to speak, legal frameworks. i think that's wrong! and i also think that the citizens here in the european union will certainly see this differently, because we are cooperating internationally, particularly with the united states, increasingly in the framework of police and judicial cooperation, people are increasingly confronted with the law of other countries, not only within the european union with the law of different member states, but also with us law in particular. this is particularly true in the area of personal data. i actually expect the government in the european union, the council, to address this problem and give the citizens in the european union the opportunity to have confidence in the law that is available to them on the internet, especially when it comes to the fact that their civil rights and freedoms are being affected.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank - and this is not a mere courtesy, but a matter of serious concern - all the colleagues who have contributed to this directive and to the compromise we are discussing today: mrs wallis of the legal affairs committee, who drafted the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, mrs gebhardt, mrs turunen and mr rochefort, and also mr kyriacos triantaphyllides and mr bielan. it was not always an easy decision-making process over two years, with more than 2 000 amendments, but it was always a process of constructive thought, and for that i thank you all very much. despite all the technical differences on individual issues, which have now also been reflected in the compromises, the european parliament today shows across the political groups that we want to advance the internal market in the interests of consumers and businesses. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. member states have often used their margin of manoeuvre - rightly, but sometimes wrongly. the present directive creates a good compromise, which regulates the internal market issues in a uniform way, but leaves the legislative decisions on all other issues to the member states. we can go a long way with this mixed approach, across party lines. we have thus corrected the commission's proposal and considerably improved it in many respects. we have given consumer protection the right place in this directive by creating a uniform eu-wide 14-day right of withdrawal for all online contracts, by giving consumers the choice of receiving the contract document in writing or by email when shopping at home, by providing a 'button' solution to increase transparency in online shopping while effectively combating online piracy, and finally by introducing uniform information requirements, in particular on price information, which is the complete information for all online and doorstep transactions. we have also made the directive practical for small and mediumsized enterprises and craft businesses by making services, in particular, flexible and exempt in many places, by allowing the possibility of cancellation by telephone, by eliminating the possibility of abuse for businesses, but at the same time also by setting clear conditions for consumers for the return of ordered goods whose purchase is cancelled, and finally by creating a uniform cancellation form throughout europe which will facilitate access to the right of cancellation and its exercise for many. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission will have clearer options for action at council level, because it is clear that a common market requires common rules. we saw this more clearly than ever in the euro crisis. it is not enough to stand for common principles to leave the member states in the end with complete freedom, but common principles must be enforced by common rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a few more details on this matter. thank you for your cooperation. i look forward to the further discussion.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it was indeed a tough and tough negotiation we had to have, because the opinions were very different at the beginning of these discussions, mr schwab. and it wasn't easy to find ourselves on a sane path. however, we were able to make very substantial improvements in these negotiations, also after the vote in committee, which finally made it possible for my group to actually agree to this compromise package tomorrow. you know how much this means after the discussions we've had. we have indeed made some improvements. the minimum harmonization is now the basis of the directive again, with the exception of the facts which are fully harmonized, which was a very important concern for us. we have excluded social services, health services and gambling from the scope of this directive because these are areas which require very specific regulation. they cannot be classified as normal commercial services, goods or trade. so that was an important question. we have considerably strengthened the information obligations towards citizens, towards consumers. that is why i am also asking the president-in-office to delete chapter 2, which would mean deleting exactly what this duty to inform entails, and that is not something we social democrats can do, i tell you that very clearly! we have included electronic products in the scope of application, which was not originally envisaged in the commission proposal. but the internet is one of the most important areas of activity. on the finish line, we have also succeeded in improving the door-to-door business. these are the positive things that allow us to give our consent. i do not conceal the fact that there are still a few problems, particularly with chapter 5 on abusive clauses, which we are not at all satisfied with and which we must continue to work on or which we must - if necessary - do without altogether. but what is even more difficult is that financial services as a whole have been excluded from the information requirements. i think there are some very serious problems. we shall have to discuss this again, commissioner, because it was included in your proposals and should remain so. in conclusion, we will agree to the compromise package, we will also agree to referral back to committee, but that does not mean that we agree to a conclusion at first reading.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm afraid i'll have to put some water in the wine. despite the many improvements which have been made to the commission's proposal during the committee's deliberations, and for which the rapporteur, mr schwab, is to be commended, i believe that the package now before us contains a wealth of over-regulation and legal complications which are difficult to cope with, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are not really of any use to consumers, which have little effect on harmonisation and which do not promote the internal market and the european economic area. i'm afraid i can only take one position at a time. the commission proposal has massively extended the scope of two definitions, as it has also gone too far in other respects, as has been seen in these 1 600 amendments. it was hardly sensible to discuss this in parliament. the commission has also not provided any justification for these extensions, nor is there any justification for these extensions in the annexes to the documents submitted to parliament. the first concerns the distance contract. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. but the second is, and i wanted to talk about it now, the concept of "business outside business premises". in future, in principle, every contract concluded outside business premises will be subject to many regulations and withdrawal rights, even if the consumer has just signed the contract, has ordered the electrician, the painter, the plasterer, the carpenter, etc. i am well aware that there are a number of exceptions, which have also been improved by you, mr schwab, and by the committee, both in terms of content and formulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. i think that this part of the proposal is superfluous, it could easily be deleted, as indeed chapters 4 and 5 could be deleted, and then the rest of the proposal and the debate would not be so bad.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, that was a very constructive debate in this chamber, i must say, with all benches agreeing that we need to have a better, more constructive, more efficient consumer rights directive than we have today – and also agreeing that while we might not have the perfect one, at least it is better than the existing one which is far from perfect, as everybody agrees. i have also rarely seen such unanimity as there has been today in the house in praising the rapporteur andreas schwab and his co-rapporteurs. i hope that this unanimity will continue, because we are now entering into a very original process, and there is a very short timespan during which we can try to achieve this better legislation that all the members who have taken the floor from all the political parties want to have. accordingly i encourage you to give your rapporteurs this report as the starting-point for negotiations. i know the hungarian presidency will do everything in its power to bring this original proceeding to a positive conclusion.
the president of the council. - mr president, it must be a woman. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, allow me to join those who say that this was an excellent debate. it was a very constructive debate and we thank you for your support on behalf of the hungarian presidency, on behalf of our experts, and i hope that we can continue the negotiations in this atmosphere. let me address some specific issues that have arisen in the debate. the regulation of lists of unfair terms has been advocated by several parties. we agree with the european parliament that there would be added value in a list at european level. however, although existing law contains an indicative list of examples, it would be of added value to have a single european list. however, this has not yet received sufficient support in the council and the council has therefore decided to delete the question. some people asked, although i was answered by mrs gáll-pelcz ildikó, why it was necessary to reach an agreement on the first reading. it was announced that in october 2008, under the french presidency, we started negotiations. in two and a half years, we have held more than 60 working groups, so we consider that there is no further scope for displacement to resolve the blocking minorities, and therefore we have had to decide to substantially restrict the scope of the directive to distance and off-premises contracts. the narrower scope and thus the targeted harmonisation, i am convinced, will lead to a faster agreement, and i do not see what added value would be if we continued, if we held a second reading. the european parliament's preliminary position on many issues is close to the council's general approach, so i think, and i would urge this, that we should not miss the opportunity for an agreement at first reading. i liked mr harbour's comment on whether the current situation is a stepping stone or a milestone. if we want to be realistic and i'm not a person who likes to exaggerate i think it's a stepping stone, not a milestone. it could have been a milestone, but the conditions were simply not right. we can see it as a stepping stone when we consider the interests of our citizens and our consumers. we all know that there are very different legal conditions in the member states. fuller harmonisation at this stage would not have been possible. it's much better to have a smaller scope and be able to have an agreement. this will really help increase consumers' rights and therefore also help us move towards completion of the single market.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the question of whether or not it is a milestone is a very much debated question. it is clear that the founders of the european community, for example, such as altiero spinelli, whose name we have given to our group's meeting room today, were able to deal with more fundamental questions in europe, but i am convinced that today small steps which have a constructive effect are the progress in europe. i would therefore like to thank all the members who took part in the debate and who, by their contributions in amendments, made this compromise possible. a compromise is always a way to balance interests. no one will be 100% satisfied, but everyone is ready to improve the way we have been doing. that's why i think we're on the right track. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mrs reding for her consistent efforts and her positive and encouraging assistance in the debate today and in many other discussions. i hope we can count on that during the discussions with the council. i thank the chairman of the committee, mr malcolm harbour, for his patience with the rapporteur and his colleagues, and also mr lehne as chairman of the committee on legal affairs. i would like to ask the council, and my former colleague enikő győri, to understand, as president of the council, that the european parliament may not be able to accept the proposal which the council thank god adopted on 24 january unchanged, but that we would like to continue at some point and that is why we want to have constructive discussions in the coming weeks in order to reach a good solution. in that sense, thank you very much.
member of the commission. − mr president, we have just heard from linda mcavan that she and the commission share the same view of how important it is actually to tackle emissions from transport; that is also reflected in the white paper on transport which will be coming out today. unfortunately, development of the implementing measure linked to the greenhouse gas intensity reduction target contained in the fuel quality directive has taken longer than anticipated. however, the delay will not affect the ability of suppliers to meet their requirements under the directive, as no member state has set an intermediate target for 2014. in preparing its proposal the commission has considered that the appropriate legislative approach needs to balance the accuracy and complexity of the reporting method with the degree of variability in the ghg intensities of different fuels. during last autumn and the first weeks of this year, extensive internal discussions have taken place within the commission which are currently being finalised, and thus a proposal could be discussed with the member states in the coming months. as concerns the default values for oil sands and oil shale, i am pleased to report that the commission has recently published reports indicating an average default value for oil sands and a range of indicative default values for oil shales. these reports are available on the commission’s website. given the wide interest in this matter the commission believes that it would be useful to subject these reports to a limited peer review process. in taking this issue forward i have liaised closely with my colleague responsible for trade matters to ensure that our approach is robust in terms of our obligations under international law, and i will continue to do so. so without prejudging the outcome of the peer review process and the subsequent commission internal consultation, it is the commission’s intention at this stage to present a draft implementing measure to the relevant regulatory committee that will include default values both for oil sands and for oil shale, as well as for other unconventional fuels such as coal to liquids and gas to liquids. it is also foreseen that the draft implementing measure states that the commission will examine the ghg intensity of other categories of feedstock with high greenhouse gas emissions and, if scientifically warranted, the implementing measure will be amended through the addition of new feedstock categories. this would make the measure non-discriminatory by demonstrating that the list of feedstock categories is open and that the commission is actively looking at other categories and is ready to extend the list when enough evidence and data is gathered on other categories. so, given that some weeks are necessary for the peer review and subsequently the finalisation of the commission’s internal discussions, there will be some delay before the draft implementing measure of the whole package can be discussed with the member states. but as soon as it is approved by the regulatory committee the measure will be transmitted to the european parliament for scrutiny.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i thank mrs linda mcavan for asking the question, because the revision of the fuel quality directive has not only obliged fuel suppliers to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that are generated during the life cycle of fuels - for example, during transport, during production in refineries - but they are also obliged to reduce emissions per unit of energy by 1% per year from 2011 and by 10% by 2020. it is - and i believe this - possible to measure the reduction in emissions over the life cycle only if there are standard values, and these standard values must now be published or determined. but i felt, when linda mcavan put her question in, that her favorite thing would be to take this energy sector out of production. i should like to warn against this, because there are very different definitions and calculations of emissions from the extraction of crude oil or oil from sand or from shale. i have just spoken to a representative of the chemical industry an hour ago, and he said that there are still many opportunities for technological development, so that a much better balance can be achieved here. i would also like to remind you that we are always talking about energy independence from sources outside the european union. we have this raw material here in the european union, so we should bring this aspect into our discussion. but all this can only be done if there are standard values to be checked. and that is why i ask the commission to act quickly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank linda mcavan for taking this initiative and commissioner connie hedegaard for tackling the problem. we are not yet satisfied with the speed, but we know that connie hedegaard is in good hands on this issue and we want to support her in the discussions within the commission and also with the other parties involved. the environmental impact of tar sands is real. there is an exhibition outside parliament, and perhaps one or two sentences will be used to question one or another figure, but that we have a dramatic environmental problem here is undeniable. if we are going to have a very intense debate on the impact of biofuels, to the point where we even want to study indirect shifts in food production, then we need to look at this problem, which is so obvious, in more detail. and that's why this is an important initiative. i have been thinking during the debate and also during the preparations for the debate about a phrase which our german environment minister, norbert röttgen, has repeatedly said: the low hanging fruit of fossil fuels has been reaped. this is evident in the subject, including the exhibition outside parliament. the extraction of all the additional resources we have in fossil fuels is a huge undertaking and presents new problems. and that is why i must remind you again tonight that we all have reason - also because of the events of the last few days - to think even more deeply about the issue of energy efficiency. i would like to see us pushing the commission, including commissioner oettinger, to pursue the 20% target for energy efficiency. i hope that the directorate-general for transport and the commissioner for transport will come here in the next few years and not just in the next election period with more than empty words, namely concrete measures.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a matter of international trade policy at a late hour and i would like to see a full house and full ranks here, given its importance. the european union's system of generalised preferences is an achievement of european trade policy. it opens our market to the poorest countries in the world for all goods except weapons. it also provides trade preferences for a number of goods in developing countries. the gsp+ provides an interesting incentive system for developing countries to obtain further benefits by signing and implementing important international agreements in the field of human rights, labour rights and environmental protection. however, the system is not without weaknesses and needs to be continuously developed. over the years, the european parliament, but also partner countries, businesses and ngos have already made important proposals to improve it. the whole world is now waiting for the commission's proposal for the necessary amendment. the deadline for this was actually 1 june 2010. the commission has not delivered on time and this failure has created a dangerous situation of uncertainty for the countries involved and for businesses inside and outside the eu. the existing regulation now needs to be revised. they are trying to save the situation with a transitional regulation, and that is the only one we will be voting on tomorrow, which is thursday. this transitional regulation is merely an extension. it does not change anything, it does not improve anything and it does not implement the new requirements resulting from the lisbon treaty. this has not only caused astonishment in the european parliament and me as rapporteur, but also disgust. it is the duty of members of parliament to ensure that the rights and obligations, as well as the powers, conferred by the treaty of lisbon on the elected representatives of the citizens of the european union are respected. it is also our duty to ensure that the abolition of customs duties actually improves the situation in the developing countries. in order to protect the eu's partners from the consequences of a lengthy procedure, i first proposed to the trade committee to amend only those elements of the regulation which are necessary for parliament to fulfil its new role. i would also like to stress that i also believe that a general reformulation of the gsp and gsp+ schemes is needed. in the intensive working sessions with the council and the commission on the legal issues arising from the transitional regulation of the treaty of lisbon, parliament finally decided to grant a large leap of confidence. i would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to my committee chairman, professor moreira, for his tireless efforts to mediate, and to you, commissioner, for giving the commission the assurance that it will meet in practice the key needs for change, particularly as regards the information and involvement of parliament. we have therefore decided to drop all the amendments and thus to bring the transitional regulation into force as soon as possible. this is in the interests of our partners and the companies concerned. this includes the assurance by the commission that it will in future keep the european parliament fully informed, directly and simultaneously with the council, of work related to the essential aspect of the gsp and of all developments, share all documents relevant to the gsp and ensure that the european parliament is informed of the suspension of preferences under article 16 (3), of a withdrawal including the relevant commission investigative reports under article 17 and of safeguard decisions under articles 20 and 21 respectively, before they enter into force. we welcome the omnibus1 and the commission's willingness to discuss its proposals in depth, and we strongly urge the omnibus2 to be put forward. in conclusion, i would like to stress once again that parliament is in favour of a transitional regulation. we must not forget that we are fighting for the further and fundamental realisation of parliament's parliamentary rights.
president of the council. mr. president, i have to go. officer, please! i'm not going to lie to you. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives! mr. president, let me continue in english. because of the terminology, i think that it is more appropriate to use english. ever since the commission presented its proposal to extend, for a limited period of time, the application of the current gsp regulation the so-called roll-over proposal the council has been consistently reiterating before this house the importance of adopting this proposal in good time. this is to ensure that developing and less developed countries will continue to benefit from the eu's general system of preferences, which is a fundamental element of the eu's trade policy towards developing countries. the council is pleased to see that the first step towards the adoption of this proposal at first reading is taking place today here in the european parliament. we will take the necessary steps as quickly as possible to confirm the agreement between our institutions on the basis of your position adopted today. at the same time, the council looks forward to the forthcoming presentation by the commission of its proposal for the comprehensive review of the eu's gsp. we should tailor the scheme to better help those developing economies which now need the preferences, and ensure that it becomes an even more efficient development and foreign policy tool by providing incentives for good governance. with that in mind, the council expresses its readiness to work together with parliament in a spirit of good cooperation with a view to putting in place a modern, comprehensive and fully functional legal framework which will be conducive to developing countries' needs. let me conclude by taking this opportunity to acknowledge fully, on behalf of the presidency, the positive and constructive efforts by both the chair of the inta committee, mr moreira, and the rapporteur for this dossier, mr scholz, to reach an agreement on this proposal.
member of the commission. − mr president, i warmly acknowledge the support within the committee on international trade for the proposal on the extension of the regulation applying the scheme of generalised tariff preferences. our particular thanks go to the rapporteur, mr scholz and to the chair of the inta committee, mr moreira, for their willingness to find a pragmatic solution on how to address parliament’s concerns on the application to the existing gsp regulation of the new rules on delegated and implementing acts. you will remember that the extension was proposed as a means to bridge the period necessary to adjust to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and to submit a new regulation on the future eu gsp scheme. the european parliament’s support as expressed in the inta committee’s vote on 3 march paves the way for successful continuity of the current scheme to the benefit of developing countries and the eu. it also reinforces the eu’s role and commitment to the objectives of eu development policy. the commission has heard parliament’s concerns on the decision-making aspects of the gsp regulation loud and clear. in this regard, we can reconfirm our full and active support for the european parliament to play its role in relation to trade policy as foreseen in the lisbon treaty. for this reason, the commission is committed to discussing in a constructive spirit parliament’s concern as expressed over the last few weeks. this discussion will continue in the context of the two commission proposals for a regulation adjusting decision-making in the field of trade policy in the light of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty – omnibus i and omnibus ii. in parallel, the commission will make every effort to act on parliament’s request to be kept fully informed about work related to essential aspects of gsp. this is indeed crucial in order for parliament to be able play its role in trade policy effectively. for this reason, the commission, building on existing requirements, will inform parliament and the council immediately of all important developments and share all gsp-relevant documents. finally we are looking forward to further discussions with you on the future scheme of generalised preferences further to the proposal for a new regulation which will come your way in may. i stand ready to discuss the main elements of the proposal at the earliest opportunity after it is adopted by the commission.
member of the commission. − mr president, i listened to the interventions. i understand that the groups agree that we should extend the existing system, but that they are waiting to have the new system on their desks as soon as possible. that is what we will do. we are working on it. as you know, before you can make a legislative proposal you need a public consultation, which takes time. you need an impact assessment, which takes time. then, of course, you also have the internal decision-making process within the european commission, on a subject which is far-reaching. this is about a financial system which will apply for quite a period of time. we want the system to be much more selective than it was in the past, so that we can help those who really need it. at this moment in time, more than 150 countries are beneficiaries of the system. it is not at all selective. you could even ask yourself what the use of such a system is. we are thoroughly reviewing it. we will come forward with our proposals within a couple of months. parliament will then have the possibility to discuss them with us thoroughly. i would also like to repeat our pledge that we will keep parliament fully informed.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the reform of the gsp will be a focal point for the council and for the presidency. with the review of the current scheme, which is to start under our presidency, parliament and the council will have a unique opportunity to reflect the profound changes in the global economy, particularly the vastly increased competitiveness of emerging partners. the presidency took careful note of the valid concerns emphasised by mr rinaldi on the effective implementation of the gsp. the council is looking forward to considering that issue and many others on the basis of the commission’s forthcoming proposal for the new gsp. let me emphasise once again how grateful i am to the rapporteur and to the committee chair, mr moreira, for their cooperation. i think this is a victory for common sense, because they understood that it was an urgent and important issue. we really did not want to create any legal problems. for me this is a kind of model and i very much hope that, on other issues on which we have such legal disputes, this will serve as a very good example of smooth relations between the council and parliament.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the proposal for a regulation (com (87) 560 final) on the common organization of the market in bananas; i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the new version of the regulation should, in particular, pursue the following fundamental objectives: (1) to increase the effectiveness of the system; (2) to establish rules to allow for a more orderly reform process that ensures the involvement of the beneficiaries; (3) to ensure that the regulation gives sufficient weight to the role of democratic control which is the responsibility of parliament. i am taking up some suggestions from the development committee. the new gsp should include a clearer, more transparent system. three thoughts on this: now , about the rules of origin . the rules of origin and the related administrative procedures are one of the main reasons why, in particular, the least developed countries, which are the least able to benefit from the trade preferences granted under the gsp. as it stands, rules of origin often prevent preferences existing on paper from having a positive impact. i have just returned from a conference of world parliamentarians on the wto in geneva and there too this problem was at the top of the list of problems. in my view, the eu should promote the priority of the preferential system in its work on the harmonization of rules of origin in the wto. secondly, the question of the partner countries. i am particularly concerned about the need to develop clear criteria, including the gini coefficient as a good example of such a criterion. we need, as i have said, more flexibility to be able to react. thirdly, technical assistance. preferences alone are not enough; it is necessary to increase the effectiveness of the system and to improve the rate of use of the gsp by providing technical assistance. in this sense, the aim is generally to improve the preferential system as a whole. i would like to thank you again for the constructive cooperation and i am happy to continue to cooperate with the commission in this regard, also with today's assurances.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs. we have already discussed this, and now parliament has the possibility, under the lisbon treaty, of approving or rejecting such air transport agreements. we cannot change the content of these laws, but we can agree with them or reject them. it's not always easy, but it's definitely a new challenge that we take very seriously. it is quite sensible to replace various bilateral agreements with a single eu agreement. because it's very clear, in the air you can't see any borders, so you can explain this well. the european union is also a strong economic community, so it is reasonable to talk about agreements between the eu and other third countries now. and that's the case now. we have very different agreements on the table today. i'll start with vietnam. that's the least comprehensive. it is a matter of different accesses and different services, it is also a matter of safety regulations, but it is actually a relatively narrow agreement, so i will only mention it briefly. the most comprehensive is the agreement with canada. it was not just about having free access to air transport services, which could be used in different ways, about the environment, about safety, etc. but it was also about market access, about participation. the first stage of 25% has long been overcome, and the second stage, which involves 49% of each other's air transport market, has already been completed. now they're going to go to stages 3 and 4. level 3 would mean that you could start airlines in different countries, in different areas, and level 4 would mean that you could even fly a european route within canada from point a to point b. the united states is far from that, although we have been negotiating with the united states for a very long time. the commissioner said that we were all very much in favour of this, but that we initially had reservations about the united states because the agreement is not entirely a partnership agreement. the united states wants more from us than they're willing to give us. we'll have to renegotiate. apart from that, we can agree because there has been progress.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, we greens also believe that in times of budgetary constraints and the need for austerity policies, we must respond to this, because we have to reduce debt in the member states, but not at european level, because fortunately we are not allowed to take on debt at all. but the political wisdom lies precisely in not just reducing debt but in finding the balance so that we can also invest in real projects for the future, so as not to put our own economy at risk any further. the european union's 2012 budget must also be guided by the need to strike that balance. the european budget has also made commitments in recent years under the structural funds, which will have to be financed next year and in the years to come. i think we take very seriously the approach of mrs balzani to the priorities of the eu 2020 strategy, namely where the european journey should go. we are calling for more money to be spent at european level on climate change policy, for a faster move towards renewable energy sources and for more money to be spent on education and research. we must not compromise that. i also think it is right that the european semester instrument now stipulates that the member states and the european budget - 28 budgets in all - must support the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. but where do we have to spend more money? if we look at the democratic changes in the arab countries, we europeans have an interest in supporting civil society, democratic structures and the transition to parliamentary democracies, and for this we need flexible means to promote democracy in the world out of a well-understood self-interest. as a green mep, i would like to ask quite explicitly, with regard to japan: where can we save? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. we don't know where to put the nuclear waste. why do we want to spend so much money now to start this project instead of redirecting the euratom funds to an exit from nuclear energy and a faster entry into renewable energy sources? we all know -- when we think about the un and climate policy -- that we have to change the way we produce energy. the 2012 european budget must also make a contribution to this. i hope that we will have the strength to make such qualitative changes in the next multiannual financial framework.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are discussing this morning the need to save in the face of the debt crisis we are experiencing in the member states. mrs trüpel and others have rightly pointed out that this debt crisis is only indirectly affecting us, because at european level no debt can be incurred. but how can austerity be implemented in the european union when the volume of european spending is only 2% of the total public expenditure of the 27 member states? i do not think that this is an austerity policy, but rather a matter of symbols, symbols which are played to us by the member states in such a way that money which is transferred to the european budget in brussels disappears into a deep black hole. it is completely ignored that the funds which go into this european budget also go back into the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, in my home state of north rhine-westphalia in germany, every labour market instrument that is used is now co-financed by the european social fund. if we do away with these funds, there will be less labour market policy. this cannot be in the interests of the social democrats. let us look at how the member states spend european money. i read in the annual report of the european court of auditors that the management and control systems for spending european funds are not working properly. i read that the recoveries of misappropriated funds in the member states amount to billions. i also read that the commission is now gratefully taking the initiative of suspending payments where european programmes are mismanaged. this is also the case in germany and the united kingdom, for example. the council, which is absent, represents the member states, which i urge to manage the eu budget better. the efficiency gains that this would bring would allow us to spend eu funds better - not more, but better. the member states can contribute to this in order to underline their economy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the 2012 budget faces a difficult economic and financial environment in the 27 member states. for this reason, we will certainly not be able to afford everything we would like. i believe that the report presented by mrs balzani is a workable compromise. i would also like to make a few critical remarks. for me, more money does not necessarily mean more solidarity and more europe. it is essentially a question of improving the quality of the implementation of the funds used and, above all, of ensuring that the objectives we want to achieve are actually achieved and not just spent. we must also always examine critically the question of potential new own resources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i also think it is important that we not only always emphasize that the eu budget is only 2%, because in the end many countries co-finance the corresponding european funds, so that here, of course, a much larger financial volume is made available against the background of the eu programmes. i think it is particularly important that we promote research, education and also sustainability and the strengthening of economic growth, and in this context i also think it is important that major projects such as iter - and i thank mrs jensen for her remark - should be financed, financed and managed clearly, otherwise the americans who are currently implementing the same project will be well ahead of us and we europeans should not always be lagging behind.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to say that we have withdrawn amendment no 25. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax is not abolished. we have agreed with the other groups that we can and will negotiate this more intensively and meaningfully in the sure committee.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, i would like to thank all those who voted in favour of this report. i think it would be important, in view of this large majority, for the commission to make a brief statement on this.
member of the commission. − mr president, we take note of the vote here today. we are looking forward to constructive cooperation with a view to coming to a final agreement. a few very important issues are still outstanding. this proposal on the single permit act is very important, and therefore we hope to come to an agreement very soon. i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms mathieu, and wish her and the hungarian presidency my best.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was expecting a different message. i thought the commission was saying that it could not agree with all the points.
member of the commission. − mr president, i was supposed to comment also on the previous vote, and therefore i did so. i now wish to comment again on the latest vote on the schwab report. the fact that we are well into the third year of negotiations indicates very clearly that it is difficult to find an agreement on this important issue. i believe that the council’s position was a really good starting point. parliament has added its own position. the commission is not ready to accept everything that was proposed but we are ready to cooperate as much as possible to reach a final result. incidentally i was told i should also comment on the result of the previous vote; this is why i am making two comments, which have not taken too much of your time.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, on the final point, i would like to ask that we refer the matter back to committee under rule 57 (2). i'm asking for your approval.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems is based on the principle of subsidiarity. firstly, i think it is good that we are dealing with the 2012 budget at an early stage because we do not want to go through the mourning game that we had between the european parliament, the council and the commission over the 2011 budget. and thirdly, i am particularly proud that the european budget is debt-free. i think that should continue to be the case.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am in full agreement with the honourable member, my colleagues in the european parliament, who say that equal treatment must be guaranteed for workers from third countries who have been employed by us for more than a year. i also agree that workers who have been working in the european union for less than six months must be treated differently in relation to family allowances and unemployment benefits. i am in favour of this, and i would like to stress once again that these groups of people are also covered against accidents and illnesses. and thirdly, i believe that pensions are part of wages and should be transferable in accordance with regulation (ec) no 883/2004 according to the rules of the member states, with the restriction that this only happens if the third country also wants and does so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think the approach of harmonising the fragmentation of european consumer law which prevents trade is a good and correct approach. it is also about the consumer being able to develop a european sense of justice, i.e. being able to feel secure wherever he is in the european union when he is doing business, when he is buying or acquiring something. this will not only provide security for the consumer but also for the producer. i am particularly pleased with the improvements in the information requirements for so-called door-to-door sales and the information requirements for so-called distance sales contracts. in future discussions, we should - and i am therefore very pleased that this report has been referred back to the committee for further discussion - take care that when we talk about producers, we do not only refer to the large corporations, but also to small family farms, and we must not overburden them with legal tricks.
in writing. - a roll call vote on paragraph 29 was not possible because i was actively prevented from doing so by the saaldiener.
in writing. the fdp in the european parliament abstained in part from voting on the text of the consumer rights directive today. the compromise adopted undoubtedly contains many improvements over the european commission's original draft. for example, it has been possible to ensure that craft enterprises are not affected by most of the new regulations and are not burdened with additional red tape. however, the text adopted today also contains provisions which would place a heavy burden on businesses without increasing consumer protection. article 5 for example leads to a requirement for a company to provide very extensive pre-contractual information, even for store purchases. the consumer can hardly benefit from this, since he can examine the goods directly in the shop. article 22a requires companies to supply goods to customers in each member state at a distance. such an obligation is contrary to contractual freedom and exposes small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to considerable legal and financial risks. furthermore, the fdp failed to assert its core demand for the complete repeal of chapters iv and v of the directive. the fdp calls for these rules to be amended in the course of trilogue negotiations with the council and the commission.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the epp group proposes that we supplement the opinion of commissioner barnier on public procurement law and its development in the european union with an opinion of parliament. that would make a lot more sense in terms of content, and that is why we are asking for support.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i support the proposal of the epp group because it makes perfect sense to discuss it. i have only the request - in consultation with the coordinator of the imco committee, mr schwab - that we do not vote on the resolution this week but in may, because we have not yet had time to discuss it between the political groups. that is why i am in favour of putting it on the agenda, of a resolution, but i am not voting on the resolution until may.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had asked for the vote on the resolution on public procurement to be postponed to may, which of course means that the deadline for tabling resolutions and amendments will be postponed accordingly. you haven't put that to a vote yet.
member of the commission. − mr president, the vote on the asylum procedures directive this week is very important. it will be a crucial step on the road towards the conclusion of the second phase of the common asylum system by 2012, in line with the eu’s commitment to the stockholm programme. i would like to thank the rapporteur, sylvie guillaume, for her outstanding commitment to this file and for the good cooperation between us. you have shown great resilience, madam, and a deep understanding of the needs of asylum seekers and of the challenges faced by national administrations. the new asylum procedures directive will be the cornerstone of the common european asylum system. asylum seekers must, as you said, madam, be offered the same level of treatment wherever they apply for asylum in the european union. today we know that there are lots of differences, which is of course very hard to understand in the same european union with the same international conventions and the same european values. it is crucial that the common procedures are fair and efficient. they must help to prevent abuses of the asylum system, but fully respect fundamental rights. i deeply believe that these objectives can be achieved, but only if the common rules ensure the same high quality of decision by asylum authorities across the union. the commission proposal has been prepared in this spirit and i note with satisfaction that mrs guillaume and the report of committee on civil liberties generally support this proposal. many amendments in the draft report in fact increase the level of guarantees to asylum seekers, particularly with regard to minors. some amendments also aim to provide more flexibility for the member states by introducing certain grounds for accelerated procedures. i find the amendment on safe country notions very ambitious. it would significantly restructure the set of rules and change practices in member states. i also note with interest the compromise amendments on free legal assistance. this could indeed help to resolve a tricky legal issue that several member states have mentioned. as you know, the commission is currently preparing a modified proposal for this directive in order to give a boost to the stalled negotiations in the council. the vote that you will take tomorrow or on wednesday is a strategic benchmark in the negotiations. the commission will carefully consider all parliament’s amendments in the preparation of the modified proposal. i look forward to working together with members on this and on the other proposals.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank you very much for the many discussions we have had with the rapporteur, but also with the commissioner and the shadow rapporteurs. the commission has also made a number of good compromises in some areas. as commissioner malmström has just said, this includes the compromise on free legal aid, and in particular the special protection of minors. this also means that we have been able to agree on applicants who are particularly worthy of protection, that we have been able to find a sensible compromise in the language we use and, moreover, that we have also found a compromise on the subject of safe third countries. the aim is to improve the quality of administrative procedures in principle, so that there are fewer second and third-instance court proceedings, in order to provide the asylum seekers who are actually persecuted with effective assistance and protection as quickly and consistently as possible. i am very much in favour of having appropriate minimum standards in all member states. the commission text and some of the individual amendments which seek to amend the commission text, however, unfortunately do the opposite to some of the good intentions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of asylum is not jeopardised. i will give you a few examples. for example, an applicant may lodge three inadmissible applications and is entitled to a full procedure three times. only then can an accelerated procedure be carried out. a procedure may not be accelerated if it is clear that a person is not to be recognised as a refugee under the geneva convention. i would like to mention in this context only the question of tunisia and also the question of economic refugees. another example: if follow-up applications are submitted without new relevant content, there should also be no accelerated procedure. but what i consider even more serious is the issue of disappearing. if someone goes underground illegally, then his application can no longer be rejected and closed. he has to sign the mail. if an asylum seeker expects a negative decision, then, if he follows a green motion, he would only have to refuse to accept the mail or not be present. then that means he can prolong the proceedings.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. we had a lot of discussions. in the end, we have reached some really good compromises, although we all know that it is not always that simple. but i would say to the liberals that we are still in favour of the objective of establishing a common eu-wide asylum system by 2012, and that means that we must now make real progress and send a very clear signal to the council that we have not lost sight of this objective and are of course still prepared to enter into negotiations. it's a given. but i also think we need to make it clear that what we want above all is a common asylum system. it cannot be that, as has already been said, it is almost a lottery where an asylum seeker applies. it cannot be - and i am glad that we have managed this at the last minute - that each individual member state has its own national list of what constitutes a safe third country. either a country is safe or it is not safe and then it still has to be examined in each individual case whether it can actually be a safe third country for the individual person making the request or whether this may not be possible in the individual situation per se. i am also convinced that this will ultimately benefit the member states, but also the asylum seekers, who will in future have the chance to obtain a fair and yet rapid application procedure in the first instance, if this is implemented as we envisage. because i believe that's a right, too. asylum is a right, not a mercy. we must be clear about this and have a clear procedure. i am particularly pleased that we have succeeded in extending the rights of minors even further. i am behind this, and the liberal group is behind it, and i look forward to a good result tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the honourable member was just talking about hordes of barbarians coming to europe. this cynicism cannot go unchallenged here. it's a defamation of these people. i'm asking you to correct my colleague.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already done so. we are faced with a subject which affects trade and security in equal measure. dual-use goods are goods with a dual purpose. this means that they can have both a civilian benefit and a very sensitive or even dangerous, at least security-related benefit. some, such as the german ministry of economic affairs, claim that it is, and i quote, "non-critical goods". that's not right. this parliament has so far taken a more responsible position in its committees. i speak as the author of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs and the subcommittee on security and defence. we have taken a very clear position in these committees. we believe that it would be extremely negligent to disregard certain control mechanisms. i would therefore appeal to my colleagues to follow the recommendations of the afet and sede committees and in particular the recommendations of the rapporteur who has just spoken on the question of prior checking. that is the one big controversy we still have on this subject. to wait until after the fact would mean less security. but we want more security for the citizens of the eu and also more security for our partner countries and our trading partners. we do not want the principle of ex ante control - which the inta and afet committees have followed - to be replaced by the principle of ex post control. that would put commercial interests above security interests. many member states, such as the netherlands, have explicitly warned against this. it is therefore in the interests of our citizens that the plenary should confirm what the committees have worked out.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jörg leichtfried, for his work on this report and, on behalf of my group, i would like to wish him every success in the difficult negotiations with the council, which is unfortunately not present at this debate. i would like to draw attention to two aspects. the amendments tabled by the epp group are not helping the rapporteur but undermining parliament's negotiating position as defined by the committee on international trade. the proposals are aimed at making life easier for arms exporters. my group will therefore not support these motions. secondly, i would like to say that my group has serious problems with the use of the dual-use list to exclude developing countries in particular from access to high technology. this is particularly true of restrictions on the export of high-performance computers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the dual use list. it is in this spirit that we have formulated amendment no 47 and i would like to ask you, in the interests of the developing countries, to support this proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's export licences are not used in a way that would distort competition and lead to the opposite of what we want. of course, it is logical to say that exports should be authorized and approved in advance. we want more transparency, and we want a learning process that monitors success. i would like to express my support for mrs köstinger in this connection, who said that we also need a system which is sustainable and sustainable for our mediumsized industry. the world market is not just for the big players, but also for the medium-sized players. this is also my appeal to the rapporteur, to ensure that the conditions and rules which are being laid down are also feasible and acceptable for our smes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking brian simpson very warmly. we have already seen this in the transport committee: when our chairman makes a report, you have nothing to say about it. he's always thinking about a lot of things, and all you can say is, "well done, brian, i agree". in this case it has been said on several occasions that it is a technical report. that sounds so boring. i don 't find him that boring . it is a technical one, but it describes tourism, which is really a very important economic activity for us in europe. 40% of the world's people travel to europe, as has already been said. so europe is a major tourist region, and so it is of course crucial to know why people travel to europe. if we are to develop a new european framework with the new powers under the lisbon treaty, we must know the data and be able to exchange them in a harmonised way. this report is designed to do this and also to show what new developments are taking place, for example, in day trips or in cycling tourism. we also want to include the industrial heritage. all of this needs to be captured in the future so that we really know how to set our goals. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have made it quite clear in the debate that violence against women is not a crime of chivalry but a clear violation of human rights. it has been said that children are sometimes even indirect victims of violence against women. they may even be direct victims of violence against women, because the main cause of stillbirths and miscarriages is definitely violence against women. it's not just domestic violence, it's also forced prostitution, honor killings -- you can't really call that honor -- human trafficking, genital mutilation, and so much more. the reason for this report, for which i am very grateful to mrs svensson, is not only that the report on equality between men and women has shown that equality is also seriously threatened by violence against women, but also that the treaty of lisbon now gives us the opportunity to adopt a directive to establish a common legal framework in europe. this is urgently needed if we are to make any real progress here, because this is a transnational european problem which we must combat.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. − madam president, migration is not only happening from everywhere else to europe. in fact, most migration happens outside europe, within countries or regions on other continents. currently, pakistan and syria are the countries that are hosting the most migrants – we should not forget that. there are various reasons for migration: war, conflict, poverty, discrimination, violence and persecution, family, climate change and many more. we should address these issues and we should fight the push factors rather than the migrants themselves. in order to fight those push factors we need a good development policy and, there, conditionality will not help much. we need to revise policies that go against our development goals, as sometimes happens in trade policy and agriculture. but we also need a good policy on democracy and promoting human rights. in the past, the community and the member states have cooperated with third countries on stopping migrants and not on human rights. the commission had been negotiating an agreement with libya to give support and aid to libya so that gaddafi would stop migrants. now is the time to change that. i am very happy to hear that you agree with me that we urgently need to change to a more human-rights-based approach. we should not forget that stability is not the only thing people want and need. stability without democracy is not a sustainable way forward. stability plus poverty does not offer any prospects. stability is important, but it is not the only thing that matters. we must not close the doors to the few migrants worldwide that take the road to europe. we need a common asylum system that gives efficient protection to those in need and we also need to protect conflict migrants. we need fair access to legal migration that gives migrants proper social rights. we need to find a way to protect climate migrants, as they have to flee because we cause climate change. we also need to revise our visa and border policies from a human rights perspective. we should not be scared of migrants. they are people like us, often in dire need, looking for a better life and peace and prosperity. is that not what the eu was founded for? so i ask the commission, will the common asylum system be put in place? whatever happened to the blue card regulation? and how will you ensure that article 208 of the lisbon treaty, namely the principle of not harming our development goals, will be fully implemented?
i have to say, madam president, i would like to address three things. firstly, we should make it clear that we can and do provide aid to refugees from north africa, particularly from tunisia. i therefore welcome the commission's intention to activate the temporary protection directive 2001/55/ec, and at the same time i call for all member states to make use of it, not only italy but also france and germany - and above all those countries which are actually able to invest. secondly, we expect the commission to state clearly that the agreements concluded with dictators such as ben ali or gaddafi on the control of migration - that is what i would call it - are null and void. as mrs malmström has said, genuine partnership with third countries is not comparable to italy's attempt to buy its willingness to take back refugees with 150 million euros. instead of solidarity in the fight against refugees, we should be showing practical solidarity with the north african states such as tunisia, where 150,000 people have fled. thirdly, we must understand the fragile nature of the eu's instruments for the protection of refugees. we must think about this. we need a liberal asylum and migration law in europe and a different development policy that is truly sustainable.
the rapporteur. - the proposal for a regulation (doc. as parliament's rapporteur for the own-initiative report 'women in agriculture and rural areas', my aim was to lead a broad public debate to give greater visibility and weight to the important multifunctional role of women in rural areas. the central task of a european rural policy remains to ensure equal living conditions in all regions and to avoid the unilateral development of urban areas, so as to give people in rural areas a chance to stay and succeed. in recent decades, the common agricultural policy has been geared to the positive economic development of agriculture and rural areas. in future, the focus will be even more on creating and promoting sustainable rural areas. this requires new efforts and new strategies from all actors. it is more important than ever to take account of and exploit the needs and potential of rural women. experience shows that the quality of life and economic power of rural regions in particular are linked to the presence and the diverse involvement of women. in recent years it has become clear that support for women and their projects can be an important development for rural society as a whole. we have been able to gather this experience in all regions of europe through the second pillar and various other eu funding opportunities. but the role of women is also essential in agriculture. in recent years, women have made a major contribution to the diversification and adaptation of firms to the market. the multifunctionality of agriculture has thus become more concrete. farms offer innovative products and services in addition to food production. these economic potentials can be exploited even more. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. their diverse professional skills, interests and achievements need to be taken into account more. to this end, we call in particular for women to have full participation in the resources of agricultural life and economic forms. women farmers want to be involved in the rights and obligations of their farms in accordance with their shared responsibility. this includes adequate representation in agricultural bodies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is in place. after intensive dialogue, we were able to vote in the committee on agriculture and rural development to adopt the report with only one vote against. there is no amendment for tomorrow's vote in the plenary. this shows me that we have found a very good compromise which is acceptable to all the groups. unanimity would give the report the necessary weight so that it will - i hope - be given sufficient attention by the commission and the council. i thank all my colleagues, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for the really excellent cooperation. the important role of women in agriculture and rural areas cannot be overlooked in the upcoming debate on the future of the cap after 2013. i am confident that our report will provide an important basis for this necessary discussion and will also make positive contributions to the forthcoming financial debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not if you listen carefully to the speeches by mr van rompuy and mr barroso, you will immediately remember the beautiful german song: 'everything is under control on the sinking ship'. we have no problems, it's all easy. we have resolved everything to the best satisfaction of everyone. i cannot understand your reports on the european council in that way. i understand that you didn't come here to give us negative reports. i would, if i were president of the european council, probably paint this permanent congress of vienna in the most vivid colours here. you were talking about libya. what you have not mentioned is the profound difference between the two largest european governments on this issue. there is no consensus between france and germany on the libyan question. the european union's division on one of the most important international issues is an indication that it does not have everything under control. the result of this council, mr van rompuy, could have been achieved in 2010, or rather, it should have been achieved in 2010. if we wanted to prevent a downward spiral in the eurozone in one year, we should have done it in the spring of 2010 as we have done it now. we have to ask ourselves why it was not done in the spring of 2010? the european council, the institution you preside over, is not the community method, the community spirit and the community objective that determines what is discussed and decided, but the last national tactical reservation that plays a greater role than the common european objective. and europe is particularly affected. i would have liked to hear from you, mr barroso, for example, how it is possible that the party to which you belong, whose leader you were, which made you prime minister in portugal, is now bringing down a government which is imposing in portugal the measures which you and the commissioner sitting next to you are asking this government to take. (applause from the centre) you can't be blamed for that. you're no longer the head of the party. but i would have liked the commission president to have been clear about this purely tactical action of a national nature at the expense of the european union, because the fall of this government comes at the exact moment when this government is about to do what the stability framework requires of it. that is not the way to move europe forward! what has worried me very much - i have not heard a word from either of you - is that the same film is always played before a european council. as soon as the heads of state and government agree on a measure to stabilise the euro or a measure to stabilise a single euro country in the draft conclusions, some rating agency in the city of london or new york comes in and downgrades that very country, which always leads to the same result, namely to fuel the wave of speculation against the euro. when will we finally have the courage to say: 'europe cannot be governed by these speculators'? (applause from the centre) what do we say about the banks? i am grateful to you, mr barroso, for saying: 'i am coming with a proposal on the financial transaction tax.' the european central bank currently lends money at 1% to the same banks, which then lend this money at 10% to euro-zone member states. the fact remains that the people who caused the crisis are still the biggest beneficiaries of the crisis. that is why the financial transaction tax must come in, so that they can share in the consequences of this financial crisis. mr barroso, you spoke of europe 2020: more jobs, more investment, more research and education, more environmental protection - great: by ever-less public investment. one result is that eu 2020 is great, just like the lisbon process, but it will fail if we always cut unilaterally in europe's economic development. what we need is the courage to invest publicly. look at the investments in the emerging states! look at the public investment in india! look at this in brazil! look at other continents, what is publicly invested there! europe is shrinking to death, and therefore a method for achieving our goals, the eu 2020 targets, should be declared as a legally binding basis in the 'sixpack' on economic governance. then governments commit themselves to finally doing what they announce so magnificently but then prevent by their budget cuts - and by the way, by cutting the eu budget itself. i therefore expect you, mr barroso, and even more so your budget commissioner, mr lewandowski, to present a committed and ambitious draft of an eu budget which makes possible what he himself is calling for.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission! my group criticises the council's conclusions as inadequate. first, there is the question of economic policy. we have expressed our views on the guidelines adopted in the field of economic policy at a hearing last week. what is needed is the overcoming of neoliberal profit and competition fixation, as is evident in terms such as flexicurity, adjustment of retirement age, etc. we believe that we need a democratically legitimized and controlled economic policy which prevents tax, wage and environmental dumping by means of common minimum standards, which ensures effective regulation of the financial markets and which prohibits the privatization of profits while at the same time imposing risks on the general public. secondly, the southern neighbour of libya. in north africa, particularly in libya, the eu member states have put themselves in a macabre situation. there's been a lot of criticism here. i would like to make one point very clear: dictator gaddafi is fighting protesters and rebels with weapons he has bought from us. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i wonder what the value of the existing code of honor against arms trafficking is, if such a situation is possible. where is the support for freedom, human rights and the fight against social injustice when it becomes concrete as in lampedusa, where hundreds of refugees from north africa arrive daily? i am afraid that even with the new neighbourhood concept, which has been rapidly put together, the majority of the policy remains one of european interests rather than being adequately oriented towards the needs of the partner countries. the third point is japan. we have time this afternoon and tomorrow to discuss japan. here too, there is no coherent european approach, at least as regards safety checks, i.e. the so-called stress tests. i am not surprised that citizens are skeptical and ask: what do we stand for in the european union?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the summit's outcome was an important intermediate step, but the test of faith is yet to come. if it is the same as with all other things, including the stability and growth pact, and the member states do not comply with it, then they are not worth the paper they are on. i therefore do not share the optimism of the two presidents that the crisis is over, but that it is only now being put to the test. it is not the commission's fault that the commission has not been able to take account of the situation in the member states. it took us two and a half years. the commissioner responsible has rejected the proposals for a financial market transaction tax. i'd like to see some results. if i remember the last parliamentary term, this parliament called for financial market measures in 12 resolutions during the last parliamentary term, and the commissioner responsible for the internal market - thank goodness he is no longer in office - refused. this is the reality! the commission has not been the first to solve the problems. however, we also noted in the council that national egoisms had to be overcome and that parliament had to be the first to ensure that the commission was strengthened in its role in amending the constitution. so there's no reason for a beautiful world at all. i have to agree with mr verhofstadt. the budgetary consolidation is too weak, the governance too uncommitted, the euro pact too weak and the national supervision still too strong. if we do not have the courage to demand that national governments commit themselves more to europe, there will be no sensible, lasting solution. mr barroso, i was critical when my greek colleagues in my group voted against the greek programme. i do not agree with mr schulz on principle. if a socialist is voted out of office, that is a good thing in and of itself. but in the case of portugal, your party voted against the programme. this cannot happen in europe. i ask everyone to work together to ensure that this national vision of problem solving has no future!
thank you very much. i would like to say to the colleagues who are now joining us on catch the eye that we have about 20 oral questions and i do not think we will have enough time before the vote. but you can't come in anyway.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is not really the job of politicians to use taxpayers' money to bail out banks or to provide states with artificial liquidity. it is the task of politics to set the legal framework so that such a situation never occurs. now you have to do the wrong thing because you've been neglecting the right thing for decades. they want to do that now, and we welcome that, in terms of the causes. but, after all that is to come, you are doing it again at the wrong level, with the wrong means and in the wrong framework, because you want to do it outside the treaties. we are fortunate to have been able to draw it a little far into the community method, but not sufficiently into a classic top-down policy. it is in this field that any policy must be democratically debated, legitimised and controlled. you're doing it with the wrong instruments, because you're taking taxpayers' money to support the banks and those who speculate in banks and other financial products. but they have still not done enough to bring in those who have benefited from this situation over a long period of time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they unilaterally burden public coffers and budgets and spare private wealth. in this way you are not helping to solve the real problems, but to solve symptoms.
i have to say, madam president, the council and the commission are proposing that public budgets in europe should be consolidated, and they are right. but when we look at how this is working and how it will continue to work, we have to say: it's hitting the wrong people. schools are being closed, teachers are being fired, researchers are being fired, public sector investment is being cut, there is no money. i ask mr van rompuy and mr barroso: is that what you mean? now you're probably saying that you don't mean that, but that it should be cut somewhere else. i ask again: where should the cuts be made? and my main question is this: if you think that cuts should be made elsewhere, why is there no distinction in the texts you propose for us to adopt in the 'six pack' on economic governance between a country buying tanks, a country buying war weapons and investing in a sick state economy, or whether it is making progress towards the future? or is it investing in a modern energy system and in the education and training of its children? these texts are stupid, romano prodi once said, and he is still right, because they cannot offer that distinction. we must therefore improve these texts, because we cannot govern europe sensibly if we cannot make this distinction. the last key question is: where will the revenue come from so that we can grow together out of the crisis? because we cannot save ourselves from the crisis. we are waiting for your proposal, mr barroso, on the financial transaction tax in europe, as this house has decided by a large majority. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
i have to say, madam president, mr president, if you listen carefully to what you say, you get the impression that everything is in order: the euro is secure, we have a new stability and growth pact, we have an esm, and we have a plus pact for the euro. i say in plain german: "i hear the message, but i lack faith". we must not forget the starting point for all the considerations and measures, namely the galloping debt of some euro member states, the declining competitiveness, the distortions in the real economy and, as a result, a growing current account deficit which must be financed. it is already foreseeable that the conditions of the new stability and growth pact will not be met by some member states, even with the best of intentions. the esm will not lead to the overcoming of real economic dislocations because no one is seriously considering the insolvency of a euro member state at all and because the prospect of esm financial assistance will then lead to continued lax behaviour. the so-called strict conditions will in practice prove to be rather light-footed. the pressure to reach unanimous decisions leads to the cow-trading we have known from the past. last but not least, the euro pact is far too non-binding to be able to induce the poor countries to undertake any profound real economic reforms. so, all in all, i fear we will not be able to eliminate the root causes. the esm will provide a permanent debt facility, the credit facility of which will have to be increased at regular intervals. it will turn out to be a bottomless barrel, and the citizens of the countries which are essentially paying will be deceived once again. the vote on europe will continue to fall.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a personal statement at the end of this debate. i am not only presenting it on my own behalf, but on behalf of many colleagues who have been here all along and have followed this debate. i have rarely felt so badly treated in my time in the european parliament as i have felt today in the interaction between you and mr barroso. i want to make that very clear. you, mr president of the commission, tell us: 'the initiatives i can take, which have an overwhelming majority in this house, fail because the member states reject them.' i would advise you to put them on the table as legislative proposals. then you will have a majority in this house and the council will no longer be able to rely on it. (applause from the centre) but don't hide behind the council any more. and to you, mr president-in-office, i say this: you tell us that you find compromises in the council between socialists, liberals, conservatives and christian democrats. the council is composed of sovereign heads of state and prime ministers. the council president is trying to turn the treaty of lisbon into its opposite. the result of the lisbon treaty is that the council of heads of state or government is increasingly involved, but at the same time it says: we decide by unanimity. this was not the intention of the lisbon treaty. lisbon wanted majority voting to be the rule in the eu. you are misinterpreting the lisbon treaty! (applause from the centre) it is therefore high time that the european parliament took the lead and defended the community method itself! (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i would like to announce that the gue/ngl group wishes to withdraw the roll-call vote on both parts of amendment 10.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the living and working conditions in rural areas have also changed radically as a result of social change, changes in social structures and the dramatic demographic change. if we want to keep women of all generations in the countryside or to re-engage them in rural life, then their needs and conditions must be reflected in policies of support more than ever before. it is important to bear in mind that rural women's realities have changed and become very different in recent years. the women themselves, as individuals and women's political groups, have initiated and shaped this change. i think that our rapporteur, mrs jeggle, has rightly identified and emphasized this very fact, and i therefore consider this report to be very, very important. because if we want to develop the countryside, it is not just about building infrastructure and creating a habitat for tourism, but it is also about bringing families back, and that includes women and men equally.
in writing. - i have approved the report. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. qualified women farmers must have a broad range of skills and be able to think and act in an entrepreneurial manner. this includes optimal infrastructure in the rural areas in the areas of education, training, schools and childcare, as well as full access to modern information technologies. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. - i have approved the report. however, the dismantling of the plants at ignalia, bohunice and kosloduj is proceeding too slowly and more commitment from the national operators is needed. it is also urgent to recall common standards for all member states for the dismantling of plants. responsibilities must be clearly defined. the three countries, lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria, have agreed to take these three unsafe nuclear power stations off the grid in the eu accession negotiations.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i see that the epp group is still at lunch. mr president, i'm glad you're smiling at me again. you were a little rough on me this afternoon, but the lunch break has calmed things down. commissioner oettinger - you know him - said there would be stress tests. - oh, there he is, i haven't seen him yet. mr. oettinger, how nice of you to come. mr oettinger a scholarly student of angela merkel, he is now also against nuclear energy, he used to be in favour of it, but fukushima is the modern damascus: all the sauls of this earth have now seen a bright sun in the sky. anyway, he said that he thought there were a few power plants that wouldn't survive the stress tests. i find that an interesting statement. if you suspect, mr oettinger, that there are stress tests which do not produce the desired results because the equipment which is to be subjected to them may not survive them, why does the commission not take action and shut down these facilities today? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so my specific question is, how is it that you know that certain assets don't survive stress tests, and you don't intervene today?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr barroso, you are a clever man, but you have not answered my question. so i'm going to ask you again. when mr oettinger says: 'we suspect that certain installations that are now on the grid will not survive our stress tests', i interpret this to mean that you are aware that these installations are so poorly secured that they do not meet the criteria. then why don't you intervene today? in my eyes, this is a real danger.
president of the european commission. − i fully agree with you, mr marinescu. that is precisely why we need the institutions to be independent and to do their job in full independence and in a true community spirit, because we have seen in the past that there are sometimes temptations not to adopt decisions or implement them in a uniform, coherent and credible manner. that is why the commission will try to do its best to ensure a level playing field and the principles of fairness. discipline, in terms of respect for agreements reached, is indeed fundamental for the success of the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr barroso, you are welcome. the commission last week set limits on the basis of a regulation which is activated whenever there are problems with radioactivity and which applies to food imports, in this case from japan. the limit values you have set for products from japan are in this case astonishingly far above those which apply to the same products in japan itself. they are also higher than the values which, for example, in the usa - a country which makes a very heavy use of nuclear energy - apply to foodstuffs in such a case. these values are also higher than those which applied to the european union and to the countries from which we import goods after the chernobyl disaster, and which are still partly applicable to caesium. why is that? why do we have these high thresholds?
president of the commission. − mr president, i will, of course, happily respond to mrs harms’ question even if i thought there was an agreement to have two halves to the debate today – a general part and then one on japan. mrs harms, you have raised a very important issue. first of all, the emergency measures adopted on 25 march, as regards the import of feed and food from japan, ensure the safety of the eu consumer and a harmonised enforcement approach across the whole european union. we believe these measures are proportionate to the risk and they have a wider scope than the measures applied in other major parts of the world like the united states and canada. to the best of my knowledge, based on the scientific expertise i receive, we believe that these matters and this approach are safe. customs ensures that food and feed items can only enter the european union market if there is assurance that they are safe for consumption. under the present arrangement, the japanese authorities themselves – and it is true what mrs harms said – enforce even stricter requirements on food products for domestic consumption and exports. given the stricter levels that are being imposed in japan we, the commission, have decided that it would be correct to amend the present levels in force since 25 march as an additional safeguard measure pending further scientific analysis of the levels established under euratom regulation 3954/87. this analysis will be carried out by the commission, together with appropriate scientific experts, before 30 june so as to arrive at standards that can be applied to imports on a uniform basis. i should like to underline here that all the checks carried out up to now, by member states, of japanese food imports demonstrate negligible levels of radioactivity, which are significantly below current european or japanese standards. let me inform you that the commission will propose to the standing committee on the food chain next friday a revision of our norms to align these with the japanese norms. these will then enter into force as of next week. i should emphasise again that this is a purely precautionary measure, which allows initiating the necessary scientific assessments of current permitted levels throughout the world, so that the european union can demonstrate it is once again applying the highest standards.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr barroso, if i understand you correctly, does this mean that the radioactive fish we import from norway, which was contaminated by the chernobyl accident, must meet stricter limits than the radioactive fish we import from the seas around japan? i think that is wrong and irresponsible and i would like to know whether you are prepared to correct the limits, which are very high in international terms, or not.
president of the commission. − ms harms, we have to decide on those matters on the basis of scientific evidence. i cannot take decisions solely on the basis of personal opinions. we have a regulation that was established after chernobyl. it was based on the best scientific evidence. japan is in an extremely sensitive position with regard to food security, and there are many reasons for this. it has a different threshold to the one we have in europe. so precisely because of these differing standards between europe and japan, we have decided that on a transitional basis we are going to implement the standards of japan. the levels permitted are lower, which means that their standards are higher. we are going to implement this for japan. in the meantime we are going to consult the committee of experts at national level and at european level so that we can, if appropriate, establish common uniform rules for all imports. i believe this is the best, most proportionate, scientific-based approach. i do not think any other approach would be advisable at this time.
president of the commission. − in one minute it is difficult to do justice to the importance of the internal market. however, let me reassure mr zahradil that this month we will present the single market act, a very ambitious set of proposals to implement the single market, to deepen it and to remove many obstacles to it with regard to services and the many administrative burdens that exist mainly for smes. these are the concrete points i can announce today: concrete measures concerning access to finance for smes and the reduction of the administrative burden affecting our companies, especially smes. let me also say that the letter that was written to me by nine european prime ministers or heads of state was a very important document. it is important at this precise moment, when there are such heavy constraints on our budgets, to unleash the full potential of the single market. this is undoubtedly a source of growth for the european union.
president of the commission. − please, let us not take a prejudiced view of the commission. the commission has a good record on this matter. we have already made some improvements: a 31% reduction of the administrative burden by the commission, with 22% already being agreed by the council and parliament. in fact, the council is resisting some of the measures to reduce the burden. i believe you will agree, mr zahradil, that 27 different bureaucracies are worse than one bureaucracy. so the commission is doing a lot to make life easier for businesses across the continent, implementing the internal market. in fact the resistance sometimes comes from the national administrations with, for instance, gold-plating of directives and so on. we are going to be serious about the implementation of this agenda for better regulation, on which i believe we can agree.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. my question is along the same lines as mr schulz's. i would therefore like to focus on one particular aspect. you will understand that our sensitivity to stress tests has increased after the experience of the stress tests on banks, including nuclear power. my question now goes specifically to euratom. i am not going to go into the details of this. i personally believe that research funding is being spent on extremely risky technology. i do not think that there is enough joint control of the risks and i do not think that there is enough joint decision-making on them. because nuclear power doesn't stop at the border. and that is our problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president of the european commission. − as the lisbon treaty clearly recognises, mr bisky, the energy mix is the national competence of the member states. it is not up to the european institutions to decide which energy sources each country should have. however, the conclusions of the last european council were a step forward because there was an agreement to test all nuclear plants in the european union. this exercise will be carried out under the responsibility of the european nuclear safety regulatory group and the commission. the commission will also present a report which will be made public. we are now in a position where those in favour of nuclear energy and those against – because there are member states in europe with different positions – at least agree that we have to upgrade all the conditions for nuclear safety. that is more likely to happen with a european approach than on a national basis.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr barroso, what is your view of the proposal to establish a european community for the promotion of renewable energy sources for an environmentally friendly energy supply and for energy saving within the framework of the eu treaty? do you think this is a proposal worth supporting, one which might help to free us more quickly from the dangers of nuclear power?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. on the one hand, it is good that there should now be a framework strategy for the roma, but on the other hand, i have to add water to the wine. the commission's overall approach is lagging behind the years of discussions with roma representatives, including in this house. roma representatives have been pointing out for years, with and without a framework strategy, that we need targeted measures and clear, concrete guidelines. there are not even clear sanctions for non-compliance with this strategy. there are approaches mentioned here, but no actual sanctions, and so liabilities are being hollowed out like swiss cheese. the roma strategy should take account of all the main areas. that was the deal. but what does the commission offer in addition to these four priorities? there is a structural lack of participation and involvement of roma communities in all decisions concerning them. there is a lack of structures for the concrete implementation of objectives. there is no gender perspective. and what really bothers me, and what i consider a scandal, is that you explicitly do nothing, absolutely nothing, to combat anti-roma sentiment. they complain that eu structural funds for roma are not being used. but i 'm asking you frankly . is it not because of anti-roma sentiment that such eu funds have been withheld? i think i did. we in the gue/ngl group are critical of this communication. we do not think they are sufficient, and i simply expect changes to be made.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the 2012 parliamentary budget is, of course, facing economic and financial difficulties. i therefore think it is a good thing that we agreed in the basic guidelines that our budget in parliament should also be carefully drawn up in the light of not too strong increases and that, in the end, only compensation should be made at the rate of inflation. i also think that the objective mentioned by my colleague mr fernandes in relation to youth is a very important one, because in the last draft budget it was particularly important to us that more money should be made available to young people than has been the case so far, because in the end it is young people who are out of work or who need special support who should also receive support from the european side. that is why i think that the additional 100 million is a very positive approach. i would also like to point out that as rapporteur for buildings in particular, i think it is particularly important that we maintain a particularly high level of efficiency in funding for buildings and also that we monitor the financial situation carefully. in this context, i think it is right that the funds which cannot be used in the course of the year in the parliament's budget should be used in particular to avoid interest as cost-effectively as possible. in this context, it is also important to ensure that the funds are not spent in a so-called 'december fever', but are then used to finance buildings more quickly and more cost-effectively. at the house of european history we will jointly ensure that the operating plan is carefully reviewed and that, in particular, the construction costs are carefully monitored and that, in particular, a proper budgetary presentation will also take place after the presentation of the building following a notification under article 179 (3).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is quite right to say that the work of the rapporteur and of his colleagues has borne fruit. it turns out that money isn't everything, but without money, apparently, everything is nothing. it also shows that when it comes to savings opportunities, everyone is holding on to what they have and is not willing to give up something that could possibly lead to more savings potential. in this context, the debate on whether to move at a rate of 2.3% or 2.5% or 2.7% is, in the end, nothing but a battle of mirrors. our job is to look at where we can actually save money. the key requirement for this is - and it would be important if the general secretariat of this house would perhaps take this to heart - that the committee on budgets is also provided with all the essential documents to look at the european parliament's budget to see where there are possibilities for savings, and not just the amendments proposed by the secretary-general. the budget of the european parliament consists of more than these amendments. we have used savings possibilities - as mr fernandes has already said - amounting to 49 million euros. what he did not say is that two thirds of it will only be transferred to the 2013 and 2012 budget years, so we have to decide next year what we do with that money. as regards the original savings, i am glad that the so-called smaller groups, including the liberals, have managed to come together and convince the two larger groups that it is necessary to make these savings in the area of information technology, in simple things such as cleaning issues or subsidies to political parties and foundations, etc., so that we have at least reached an agreement on where money can be saved. the debate which has just begun on the 100 million euro to be given to young people is of course a subject on which one cannot really object. on the other hand, we must be careful where we throw candles, because this question has nothing to do with this report. it must be dealt with in other reports. it cannot be that this distracts from other important issues. nevertheless, a start has been made, and it has been shown that we do not necessarily need more money, but a much better spending discipline. we are on a good journey in cooperation with all the groups.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is right that in these economically difficult times the european parliament too must make a contribution and be prepared to exercise self-restraint and self-discipline, even though we are still building up our own institution and have been given new powers by the treaty of lisbon. i share the view of my predecessors that it was a good thing that we negotiated down the bureau's budget estimates, which were really overestimated at 5.2%, to an increase of 2.3%. but it is still growth, although probably below the inflation mark, so it is not really savings, it is just a reduction in growth, and we should be honest about calling things what they are. i would like to say this about the house of european history: conceptually, the majority of my group shares this approach of a service to the citizens of europe, that they can learn about our history after 1945. but that also means, of course, that a business plan is needed and that all the conditions which we now formulate by majority for the vote tomorrow will also be met. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but this also means that if you want this new priority - after all, this is an investment of 60 million euros over the next few years - you must, from the greens' point of view, be prepared to save in other areas as well as to limit growth. for example, we believe that business flights can be avoided for flights within the european union which take less than four hours. that would save a few euros. instead, more bicycles could be made available to the staff and to us members here in strasbourg. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. of course, we greens would also like to spend more money on youth work. but that is part of the commission's budget. if we now take this sum for young people out of the ep budget, we are taking it out of the new financial supervisory authority and the food safety authority, for example. is that what we want? is that what this house wants to send our citizens? no, this is a bad decision. we must make these agencies, which are in favour of proper regulation, functional and strong and make the funds available in the commission budget for youth work. that would be a proper political approach.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if i follow the debate on the house of european history in this way, there seem to be only two kinds of members: the budgetary experts who are attending this debate, who are overwhelmingly critical of this project, and all the others who think that the content is quite right. the problem is that the house of european history is being cooked up into so many different soups that have nothing to do with the house itself. the daily telegraph reports today that it has documents showing that the cost of this house has now risen to the surely astronomical sum of £137 million. i can only invite the daily telegraph to send these documents to the committee on budgets and to allow the transparency which the press normally demands of members to be exercised by the members themselves. i'd like to examine those documents. does this project make sense? the european union is a great example of the european union, and it is a great example of the european union. does a parliament have to run a museum? no, i certainly don't. that is why the social democrats in the european parliament have two clear guidelines for this project. one is: we want to have a business plan for this project. the second is that we want to have clarified the follow-up costs, i.e. also the future ownership of this house. the third point to be added is that we should avoid duplication of content between the info centre and the house of european history.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we know that 80% of the eu budget is managed in shared management, which means that the money is managed and spent in the member states, and that is where the errors and irregularities are made, where the fraud is committed. in this respect, the annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests is something like the member states' register of sins, and i thank mr cătălin sorin and the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups for their work on it. i found a remarkable sentence on page 11 in the commission's report on the protection of financial interests. it says: 'for the objective 2 programmes, the very high irregularity rates in the countries that benefit most from these programmes (the united kingdom and the netherlands) are likely to have had the greatest impact on the overall rate.' the united kingdom and the netherlands are two of the countries which have proposed to us that we cut the european budget. i can only ask you from this place: please make sure that european taxpayers' money is spent properly and reduce the irregularity rates in your countries! and if you, commissioner, would make a few more comments in this context, i would be very interested.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the pif report 2009 brings several important innovations. for the first time the commission is attempting to classify the level of irregularities and fraud. unfortunately, this is accompanied by the attempt, which is evident in every corner of the report, to trivialize the problem of irregularities and fraud by statistical means. commissioner, i did not like that at all! the report also introduces another important innovation, namely the implementation of the reporting system for dealing with irregularities, ims. now 800 places in europe can enter data, not just 50 as before. the share of irregularities in the agricultural sector increased by 43%, in the structural funds sector by 23%, and in the total structural funds sector by 109%. this system needs to be further improved. we regret that the commission is still very patient with the implementation in the member states, because implementation is still slow. the report makes this very clear. that is why we are calling for the full implementation of the ims. it is only when it is done correctly that we have reliable data, so that we can work on the irregularities in the quotas and the fraud. we are concerned about the situation in italy. this country is by far the number one fraudster in the world. the eu accounts up to 2004 were closed and 60% of the suspected fraud cases were in italy. it would therefore be sensible and important to help this country with an action plan and specific measures. i would like to thank olaf and its staff very much for their important work, and we are supporting them, which is why we must again call for stronger support in the commission for the office for the fight against fraud. why are there problems with access to databases when the commission purportedly wants olaf's work and considers it as important as we do? we would be grateful, commissioner, if the commission could provide us with answers and help us to put this matter in the commission's legislative files.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, subsidy fraud and misuse of funds have decreased significantly in recent years. despite these advances in transparency and control, public perception remains critical. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the fact that only a fraction of this money is returned to the european budget is ultimately a loss for all taxpayers. the commission must recover these funds immediately. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but we are also concerned when there are few irregularities reported, because if i do not report them, i will not have to take care of the recovery and the money will remain in my country. i would also like to ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented.
member of the commission. − three concrete measures were adopted on 24 january this year, with immediate effect, on the management of eu research grants in the seventh framework programme (fp7), and each of these responds directly to concerns that have been expressed repeatedly by participants – and would-be participants – in fp7. one is allowing more flexibility as to how personnel costs are calculated. another is that sme owners whose salaries were not formally registered in their accounts can now be reimbursed through flat-rate payments. and a new steering group of senior officials, taken from right across the commission services, is involved in removing inconsistencies. this is very important for the application of the rules that are there already. we designed an e-learning platform specifically targeted at smes. it is going to go online this year, and it aims to facilitate the access of smes to r&d projects. the exploration of its results will offer free online training and customised information and, very importantly, a communication forum. all of those taken together improve substantially the situation for smes and obviously, under the common strategic framework, i have no doubt that we will get other very good ideas about what else we might be able to do to help them.
member of the commission. − the ambient air quality directives set several limit values for several pollutants with different attainment deadlines. apart from promoting good practices at the implementation committee meetings amongst other fora, the commission focuses its efforts on checking if compliance with the limit values set in the directive has truly been met. since 1996, the directive has required that member states develop and implement an overall strategy, including long and short-term measures. the latter category is particularly relevant to address situations where there is risk of exceeding the particulate matter pm 10 limit values, for example. plans must be prepared as soon as the limit values plus the margin of tolerance are exceeded, to show how compliance will be reached by the attainment date. whilst the air quality plans have to be communicated to the commission within two years of the exceeded limit measured, the competence and responsibility for deciding on the measures to be included in the air quality plans rests entirely with the member states. this is in line with the subsidiarity principle and acknowledges the fact that national and/or local authorities are best placed to identify the most efficient and tailor-made measures to address high concentration levels in their air quality zones. the commission’s compliance checking focuses mainly on whether limit values are met, less so on how they are met. the latest data submitted by germany for the year 2009 confirm that 70 out of about 80 air quality zones continue to show an excess for pm limit values. most zones were granted an extension of the compliance date until 11 june this year because they had prepared an air quality plan with a clear timetable and measures showing how compliance will be met by the exceedance deadline. munich is one of these zones. the time extension was granted, provided that the competent authorities adjust the air quality plan to include short-term measures that are effective for controlling and, where necessary, suspending activities that contribute to the risk of the limit values being exceeded. as far as no2 is concerned, the commission expects that many member states will face similar problems as with pm. exceedances prior to 2010, possibly extended to the end of 2014, do not constitute a breach of european legislation at the current time but trigger the requirement to prepare an air quality plan. member states have until the end of september 2011 to submit the data for the year 2010.
i thank you, commissioner, for your very good and precise answer. i have two quick follow-up questions: firstly, does the commission clarify whether the individual member states are actually measuring according to the same criteria and with the same rigor, or are there differences? secondly, do you have any concrete proposals - at least for cities - on how to reduce air pollution?
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is very much concerned with nature conservation and the protection of wild animals and plants, or whether he is also concerned with old domestic breeds and crops, the diversity of which is also very much at risk.
member of the commission. − i am going to the places close to athens. i will be having a debate on the first day with three committees from the hellenic parliament and we will certainly discuss this issue too. i am aware of that and of the seriousness of the issue. maybe i could tell you why we are actually in favour and we are even co-financing some of the landfill, even if we do believe that this is on the lowest level of the preferred options in the waste hierarchy. the first and absolutely most important thing that must be considered of course is human health, so we have to be sure that this is protected by all means. i think it is important that we definitely look for and try to find the best possible options but sometimes it is simply necessary to go step by step. i have seen from the data i receive from all across europe that once a country starts seriously on separate collections, the route to very high levels of recycling and very low levels of municipal land filling is very short. so separate collection is the fundamental thing and when this is done well then things can move fast. but sometimes, unfortunately, land filling is still the only possible option and, if we want to take care of human health in this context, we simply have to provide that.
the next item is the report by mrs giannakou, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the application of regulation (ec) no 2004/2003 on the rules governing political parties at european level and their financing (2010/2201 (ini)) (a7-0062-2011).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. clear legal rules for political parties in europe are important for shaping european civil society, for developing european political debate and also for helping to ensure that european elections are conducted in a truly european manner, with european campaigns and arguments, and not as is still the case today nationally. i would therefore like to thank mrs giannakou very warmly for her report. we worked very closely together. we couldn't agree on everything at first. but we can agree with the results. i would like to draw attention to a few points which were particularly important to us in the debate. one is that we believe that parties which want to participate in democratic competition must also be democratic in nature. this applies in particular to the election of bodies, the drawing up of candidates and lists, and this is now included in paragraph 5. that seems to me to be a great advance. that is true of a number of other points which i do not want to mention now. i would like to come back to the most important point: the requirement that you already have a member of the european parliament. this was originally intended to be the way in which recognition and funding were to be provided. now this requirement is only for financing. and that was very important to us, because we need to keep the recognition and funding separate. recognition means that there must be free competition, that new parties with new faces can be formed in europe on new issues. you can't limit that too much. but as far as financing is concerned, it can of course be linked to a minimum of success. we can therefore agree with this result, even if we would have liked to have made it clearer and therefore will table an amendment on this point.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can only welcome it if the european parliament takes the question of democratizing european decisionmaking seriously and tackles it in a practical way. the path in question is also about the further development of european parties, which have been part of the political reality of everyday european life for years, but have not yet been an equal partner and actor of democratic influence on eu policy. we need political parties, including at eu level, which are firmly rooted in society and, based on democratic structures and rules within the parties, can play a strong role in elections to the european parliament and in the creation of a european public. as regards the specific report, i would have wished for much more courage from the rapporteur to take a really big step forward in the development of the political system and also the party system in the european union, on the basis of parliament's right of initiative. this is a step which many citizens are expecting and which invites them to participate. the interconnected european and national levels of decision-making and the relationship between political parties could have been addressed even more clearly than joint action that is transparent and influential. the european parliament should now urge the commission and the council to take the initiative in this respect. i also expect constructive cooperation with the commission and the council.
mr van der stoep, i am the one who has given you the opportunity to put the question.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. few people know that there are european parties and foundations. so far, these are merely umbrella organisations of their national member parties, established under national, predominantly belgian, law. what are these european parties doing? they discuss european issues, hold party conferences and are essential to reforming the european elections. the treaty of lisbon calls for them to help create a european democracy, a political space at european level. the own-initiative report, which will be put to the vote tomorrow, calls on the commission to reform the legal basis for these european parties. in future they will be based on a european legal statute and will have a european legal personality. we liberals have been campaigning for a strict distinction to be made between recognition as a european party and its right to funding, because there were ambitions here. it is also important that european parties must be democratic within their own party, which is not a given.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on 6 april at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the report by luis manuel capoulas santos, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the recommendation for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the union of the comoros (15572/2010 - c7-0020/2011 - 2010/0287(nle)) (a7-0056/2011) and the report by joão ferreira, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 861/2006 of 22 may 2006 on community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the area of the sea (com (2010) 0145 - c7-010/2010 - c7-010/2010 - co (2010) 0807 (doc.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a whole package of fisheries policy on the agenda once again. i am glad, as coordinator, that we have reached a compromise with the council and the commission on two regulations. this applies to the grelier report on technical measures and the ferreira report on the second financial instrument. we will also be able to approve the fisheries agreement with the comoros, although i do not want to hide the fact that i would like to see a fundamental reorientation of the partnership agreements in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am beginning to lose patience with the fact that there is still no reasonable cooperation between the institutions. i have already mentioned this on several occasions. i'm doing it again today. the problem of management plans must be solved urgently! i also appeal to the hungarian presidency to work actively for a solution. the fact that no one from the council is here, however, shows quite clearly how little respect the council has for parliament. i can't believe this! i have one more comment on the grelier report. i know that some colleagues are frustrated that their wishes for change have not been taken into account. i also find it very unfortunate that our fishermen have to work with old technical measures. the council is to blame for this, as it was unable to agree on a new regulation. we must act responsibly as a parliament with a great deal of responsibility and therefore extend the existing regulation without amendments.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad that this subject is finally being adopted by parliament and i thank the rapporteurs for their work. the amendment of the council regulation on community financial measures is one of the main tools we need to implement the common fisheries policy. this is particularly true in the areas of international fisheries relations, data collection and scientific studies. the control systems of the common fisheries policy and their implementation are of particular importance. the rapporteur has tried to convince his colleagues why he wants the co-financing rate to be increased to a maximum of 75%. we were unable to comply with that request. the existing rules have proved their worth in practice and already allow for exceptions. member states are already making use of the possibility of applying for co-financing and therefore no further incentives are needed. it is important that the amendment to the regulation now paves the way for a coherent legal framework.
the joint debate on four reports on fisheries matters has been closed. the vote on all four reports will take place on 6 april at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, commissioner barnier, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to comment on the comments made by my colleague. we in the committee have proposed that instead of a social clause, the effects of measures in the internal market on employment should be examined. this is much more important than applying general formulas. if we want to move the internal market forward, we must pay attention to and value the social aspects in everything we do. therefore, an impact assessment that takes these requirements into account is very important. i want to make one more comment. i was surprised when the president spoke of economic governance, which in german is still translated as 'economic management'. we have not had a good experience in one part of germany with economic management. i am convinced that the only way to achieve the single market is to coordinate our economies. it's perfectly clear. but we will not advance the single market by promoting economic management. we are discussing today how we can give new impetus to the european single market. this is overdue because next year we will be celebrating the 20th anniversary of the single market. i therefore welcome the comments made by commissioner barnier, who says that he wants to concentrate on a few measures which have not yet been taken and which can give new impetus to the internal market. the single market is a huge opportunity for all of us. it can lead to more employment. that must be the goal, to put people to work. this is the best social policy we can have, because people who have jobs also realise a part of their self-esteem. that is why we must do everything we can to promote this. we need a balanced package of measures that benefits both businesses and citizens. firstly, we want to ensure that smes in particular benefit more from the single market than they have so far. we therefore urgently need the eu patent so that companies can finally protect and distribute their innovative products at a reasonable cost across the eu. in addition, firms need more financial resources to develop innovations. a european venture capital market is one of many measures. the harmonization of vat and also the corporation tax base, which we are now discussing, can give a boost to the internal market. on the other hand, we want to strengthen citizens' confidence in the internal market by taking concrete measures. the recognition of professional qualifications will be improved, possibly also by means of european professional cards. this will make it easier to work in another member state. we are also creating greater mobility for citizens in the european single market. we also need european market surveillance - i stress this, european market surveillance - because we have repeatedly found that the member states have not applied the dossier. we want to ensure that no dangerous products are put on the internal market. if we adopt this jointly by a large majority, there will be a new impetus for the internal market.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i very much hope that we will be able to save these 200 people who are in need, because this is a very important question. thank you for letting us know. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have an innovation, a political mandate for the future in the treaty of lisbon, in article 3, where we have enshrined the social market economy. this is a task which must be fulfilled, and we have been waiting for it for the last two years. i am pleased that the european commission has now taken a first step in this direction. i am also very pleased that we social democrats have managed to ensure, after a hard struggle, that the social clause is also included in the european parliament's opinion when we vote on it today. it is a very important question, because it is the basis for our social cohesion, the basis for our being able to make sure that the internal market is also perceived as a social component by the people of the european union. this is essential if we are to restore citizens' confidence in the policies of the european union. in particular, the commission must finally recognise the crucial importance of social rights in the internal market and focus on the social impact of european legislation. it is therefore important that we as a parliament once again remind the commission of the social clause already enshrined in the lisbon treaty. i thank mr barnier for assuring us that he is willing to take this on and to go down this road. he can be sure that we, as the socialist group, will support him in any event. the social clause, commissioner, of course also means that the posting directive must be adapted accordingly. that the right to strike and to work must be respected in the member states, that the issues that concern people are really respected, that these rights can be exercised without reservations and without restrictions by the internal market policy in the european union. that is the concern of the social democrats. if the internal market is developed in this way, we will support you and then we will be on the right track in politics. of course, other issues are also important in this context. the recognition of professional qualifications, the european passport of competences, the full transferability of pension rights within the european union: these are the issues that concern citizens, which really make up the internal market, so that it is also a internal market for people. so, in the spirit of what we social democrats always say, the economy is for the people and not the other way around. if we go this way, we're on the right track.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have worked on this joint project in the european parliament and the european commission. the single european act created the single market almost 20 years ago. no doubt much has been accomplished since then, but it is like a 100-meter race: the last few feet are the hardest and most exhausting. the commission has therefore presented, in consultation with other commissioners, an incredibly coherent approach to the final steps towards the single market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want to change this together in the european parliament, across the political groups and with the commission. the guiding principle behind this final measure of the internal market, this final step, as i like to call it, is the guiding principle of the social market economy, in which workers are taken seriously in their rights, as are companies, citizens and all those involved in economic life, and we have to ensure a fair balance between the different member states, but also between the different interests of those involved. i believe that the compromises we have reached between the groups are very close to this principle. nevertheless, commissioner, i would point out that the epp group has agreed internally, across committees, on a list of priorities covering four key points for the next measures in the package you propose: we want to see the completion of the internal market of fundamental freedoms. for example, in the case of vocational qualifications, a quarter of all qualifications in the european union exist in only one member state. this shows that there is a lot to be done here and that this openness of the market does not work. we also want the creation of a crossborder digital single market and the global view of the single market. the proposals on procurement policy are extremely important and parliament will deal with them in a resolution next week.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the context of the internal market, public procurement law, the award of public contracts, is an essential component. mr barnier, if you say that you want to promote social integration in this context, then i have to say that i have heard little about the protection of social rights, i have heard little about the protection of collective agreements. that is one of the basic rules which you yourself say you do not want to question. if we want to protect basic rules, we must ensure that basic social standards are protected in future in public procurement, that collective agreements are not undermined and that wage dumping is curbed. this is part of a modernised public procurement law. i am saying this explicitly: fundamental social rights must no longer be subordinated to economic freedom and free competition. we must not forget that the european parliament has always been a political and economic body, and that it is the european parliament which has always been the political body.
we must not now open a debate on this subject which we had just yesterday.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, on behalf of the alde group i wish to propose an oral amendment to amendment 2. it takes the following words out of amendment 2: ‘by providing public authorities with a “tool-kit” to evaluate the quality of such services’.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the proposal aims to conclude a new protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the union of the comoros. the proposed decision aims to fix the fishing opportunities for european union vessels, depending on the surplus available, and the financial compensation clearly due under access rights and support for the fisheries sector. in principle, this agreement is to be welcomed. controlled fishing is always better than uncontrolled fishing. but we must also use this agreement and have a constant check on its success. the simple and naive question for me is and remains: even if there are surpluses in the fisheries sector at the moment, we must see whether this will also be the case in the coming years.
in writing. - i rejected the report. it is about us putting in place orderly, common, rapid asylum procedures based on a common legal standard in europe. the amendments tabled by the greens and the socialists, on the other hand, ensure that foreigners can stay in the eu with almost no controls, and we are doing a disservice to genuine asylum seekers who make a claim for life-threatening political, religious or ethical reasons by putting them in the same pot as the rest. that is not my idea of asylum policy. asylum policy is an act of humanity and solidarity. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently published a report on the environment in the european union.
the president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. first of all, let me say that i am delighted that we are continuing the debate that we started last month. this proves the seriousness of the matter. it is also a sign that, beyond the emotional reactions which the still very serious situation in japan rightly provokes in all of us, our institutions are prepared to act with due caution on this matter. at the same time, let me reiterate our readiness to provide continuous and concrete support to the japanese people, whether in the form of humanitarian aid or nuclear expertise. the european council made this clear on 25 march. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the hungarian presidency reacted immediately to the japanese disaster, particularly in view of its work on nuclear energy risks. let me dispel at the outset some of the misconceptions that may arise in the public mind about nuclear safety. namely, that the eu is only now, in the context of an external crisis, realizing the importance of the matter. this is a big mistake! firstly, because europe has actually had a legally binding framework in place for more than 25 years in this area, which we are constantly refining. the most recent example is the 2009 nuclear safety directive. secondly, because nuclear safety is a continuous process, in which we gradually refine the standards, learn from events such as the one that has just occurred in fukushima, and regularly monitor the actual safety status of installations. the european council in march did indeed confirm that the eu response should take a course that combines the guarantee of safety on the ground with the improvement of the regulatory framework. one of the aspects of this multi-pronged eu response is the issue of comprehensive risk and safety assessments of european nuclear power plants, the so-called stress tests. its scope and practical steps should be developed taking into account recent events and making full use of available expertise. the group of european nuclear safety regulators and the members of the independent national regulatory authorities should be ready by mid-may to define those practical steps, on the basis of which their evaluation is likely to start in the summer. several member states and several nuclear operators have already taken decisions requiring safety audits of nuclear power plants. the first lessons can therefore be drawn and published at the end of the year. the assessment authority shall therefore share the results of the stress tests with both the public and the commission. the european council will evaluate the preliminary results by the end of the year on the basis of the latter's report. in the second, regulatory, reflection, the european council has already invited the commission to review the existing legal and regulatory framework for the safety of nuclear installations and to propose improvements where necessary. at the same time, we must continue the work already under way in the area of legal regulation and adopt the proposal for a directive on spent fuel and radioactive waste management. it is obvious that safety standards must be defined in such a way as to cover the entire life cycle of nuclear installations. as a third step, third countries neighbouring the eu should be invited to join this assessment and raise their level of security requirements. of course, safety concerns are not limited to the nuclear field. for any single energy source, whatever its contribution to security of supply, considerations of guaranteeing supply must not be allowed to override safety considerations relating to the protection of human health or the environment. as you know, the situation in europe, namely the different and different composition of fuel consumption in the member states, must also be taken into account. so the energy mix is a free choice. this will remain the case for some time to come, as the energy mix, the choice of which to choose, is a matter for the member states. however, in terms of common objectives, we can still make progress towards the establishment of a common energy policy. for example, this year we're going to start looking at the 2050 energy agenda. this will assess the contribution of each energy source to meeting our climate change commitments, while also meeting our energy policy, security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness objectives. in addition to the freedom to choose the energy mix, the deepening of the internal market and the increasing interconnections have led to an increasing interdependence between member states' energy policies and energy source choices. accordingly, it is appropriate to develop a common vision of the implications of our energy policies in terms of investment, energy prices and regulation. this also means that, as nuclear energy currently accounts for 30% of europe's energy production, none of the 14 member states that have chosen nuclear energy can decide to close their nuclear power plants immediately without consulting the other member states and considering both the alternative energy sources and the network issues involved. to this end, the presidency intends to hold a detailed discussion on this subject at the informal meeting of energy ministers in may. last but not least, it is important to inform the public about the underlying assumptions and the advantages and disadvantages of the energy sources chosen. i'm sure we can contribute to that with this debate today. thank you very much, mr. president.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the terrible earthquake of 11 march, the subsequent tsunami and the accident at the nuclear power station centre, with considerable damage to the various blocks, and to date no definitive progress in repairing the damage and managing the risks, the nuclear power station is still out of control according to the state of the art, all this concerns us also with regard to safety and the energy industry in the european union and beyond. we therefore invited a high-level group of ministers and representatives of national governments, representatives of nuclear power plant manufacturers and representatives of the energy industry to meet on 11 march, and then on 15 march. the council of energy ministers made preparations on 21 march for the european council, which finally, on 25 march, instructed the commission and the national nuclear regulators to carry out an extraordinary stress test, a comprehensive safety check, with the aim of achieving the highest standards. since then, we've been working on the criteria. the directorates-general, myself and the supervisory authorities are preparing a catalogue of criteria for the examination of the proposal which will be made transparent to you and the public before it is adopted. the first concerns the consequences of the risk posed to european union power stations by earthquakes and floods, particularly in the atlantic. the second concerns the implications for the power stations themselves, namely how to further secure cooling systems or how to secure circuits and emergency generators. then there are other factors, such as terrorist attacks, cyber threats, or plane crashes at a nuclear power plant, that are added to the list of factors. we expect that the ensreg plenary meeting in mid-may - that is, the community of national nuclear regulators - will be able to conclude the consultation and decision-making on the test criteria and then, by the end of the year, to carry out a comprehensive review with the aim of ensuring the highest safety standards in the 143 nuclear power plants in the european union. we have contacted the governments of the russian federation and ukraine and will be contacting switzerland and armenia in the coming days, as well as countries planning to build nuclear power stations such as turkey or belarus - all with the aim that these highest safety standards and test criteria can also be applied to a safety check in immediate neighbouring countries outside the european union. we know that the responsibility for the energy mix and thus also for energy technology and thus for nuclear power stations or other technologies lies with the member states. the member states have already shown in recent days that they have an interest in retaining this competence. in other words, it does not seem realistic at the moment to transfer the decision on nuclear power to the european level, given the existing treaties and legal bases. but the safety test, which is for everyone to participate in, seems to me to be the common denominator of all member states, whether they have nuclear power or refuse to have it, in view of the highest standards to be achieved. france gets 76% of its electricity from nuclear power, austria 0%. 14 countries have nuclear power, 13 do not have nuclear power. germany is currently considering the possibility of shortening the term, while poland and italy are considering whether to re-enter nuclear power - as italy has done - or to do so for the first time - as poland has done. in addition to the safety checks, we attach the greatest importance to the transposition of the nuclear safety directive into national law by july this year. the commission has so far been mandated to carry out an evaluation of the nuclear safety directive adopted by you and the council and to be transposed into national law in 2014. we shall now prefer this. we want to share with you at the end of the year further reflections on how the directive can be materially strengthened, after it has so far been concerned primarily with formal responsibilities or authorities that need to be created, and more. i would like to refer to the relevant proposals on nuclear waste which have been put forward by the commission and are under consideration in parliament and the council. this too is a contribution to common steps towards the highest possible level of security. we know that the security check will then have to lead to voluntary consequences in the member states. i'm relying on the power of the factual here. i hope that the assessment of safety, standards and the necessary measures, based on what is proposed by competent experts, will be taken up by the member states and implemented in their countries and for their nuclear power stations. we will be happy to inform you again in mid-may when the draft stress test and the criteria for the work-level test can be presented to you.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not mr. oettinger, you already know i'm suspicious of your stress tests. i'll tell you why in a few words. i do not think it is a good thing that the definition of the criteria for the design of the test and the evaluation of the results should be left to the national authorities and to the supervisory bodies which have hitherto been solely responsible for the supervision and testing of nuclear installations in the european union. it will be the well-known companies in the world, the pappenheimer companies, that will be certifying to each other that their nuclear installations have been, are and will be safe. or do you really think that the national regulators will suddenly come to the conclusion that they have done a bad job and have been too tolerant? i do not think so, mr oettinger, and you have not yet told me how you intend to ensure that independence in this whole area of supervision is suddenly put to an end. the voluntary nature of stress testing is further evidence that we cannot take it as seriously as we want and should. but you can deliver, you can guarantee that independent experts have access. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the matter. i would like to say that we greens expect the stress tests to be designed in such a way that it is possible to identify which plants are really no longer tolerable and which plants will be the first to go offline. we see the stress tests, if they are to seriously contribute to a breakthrough in europe, as the basis for an exit roadmap that starts now and can be completed if things go well for europe around 2025. i would like to ask you one more specific thing, mr oettinger: you have given many interviews in the last few days and have stated, for example, in germany, that you already know which nuclear power stations will not survive these stress tests or that you are even sure about some of them. call them by their names. if, for example, we are talking about fessenheim, a power station which is neither flood-proof nor earthquake-proof, as the french authorities say, 'inadequately protected', then you should at last name these risk candidates! it would give confidence to your policy. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not in germany, 250,000 people recently demonstrated for the immediate phase-out of nuclear energy and for a switch to 100% renewable energy. both are possible. after chernobyl and fukushima, it is clear that nuclear energy will have a residual risk. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of nuclear installations is not compromised. however, according to the 2009 council directive on the safety of nuclear installations, only the existing safety standard applies in the member states. we therefore urgently need to amend this directive with the co-decision of parliament, not on the basis of the euratom treaty. i would urge that as many groups as possible in this parliament should take the initiative of calling on the council and the commission to submit a proposal for a directive to that effect. and i think there has to be a european-wide exit scenario from nuclear energy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i really support the joint resolution wholeheartedly. we have two messages in particular for those responsible in the member states and for the general public: we need common rules to protect against nuclear accidents throughout europe. the time of small states in nuclear safety must finally be a thing of the past. two older power stations, 180 km from strasbourg in germany, have been temporarily shut down and taken off the grid. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear power stations in the community are not affected by the nuclear accident. this example makes it clear that we need common criteria at a very high level. we have the legal basis, and it is always a political question how far one goes with the legal basis that exists. we have to go much further than we have been. the second is that, whatever the member states decide - some will take power stations off the grid sooner - our message is that we do not want to replace this by additional gas imports, for example from russia. we are also in favour of the introduction of a new energy policy, which will be based on the principle of the 'green economy'. commissioner, you presented an action plan on energy efficiency before fukushima. that was an important step. it is even more urgent to implement it now. i am personally in favour of binding targets, as is the majority in this house. we don't want any more fossil fuels. we want jobs for the craft and industry. energy efficiency is cost effective, and we really have to give gas to it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is well known that there are very different views on the question of 'nuclear energy - yes or no' in the member states and also here among the political groups. if you have followed the debate today, you have noticed that there are also very different opinions within the political groups. on the other hand, there is a disaster in japan, a huge problem. we have started a debate and i think that the resolution offers a great opportunity to focus today and tomorrow on one particular question, namely whether we can raise safety standards together and whether we can create some sort of greater european responsibility or european community. although i do not like some of the points in this resolution, i think that what the members have achieved is great, because they have produced a text that focuses on greater security and more on european cooperation. i would therefore like to ask whether it is not time or opportunity to put the question of whether or not to withdraw, whether or not to be enthusiastic about nuclear energy, in the background today and tomorrow and to concentrate on this. if we were to put our amendments, which we all have tabled, aside for tomorrow - i want to have tabled them only once - and concentrate on deciding by a large majority, perhaps even unanimously, that we want more security and european powers, then we would have done more for the reputation of the european parliament and for the issue of 'how can we draw conclusions from japan?' than if we continued the disputes we always have. maybe we can run it again the week after that. i ask you to consider whether we should not try. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
mr reul, you know that i am always committed to the development of nuclear safety. i have had very little success in this respect with the nuclear safety directive which we adopted here two years ago. a very large majority of this house was against the highest security standards. we have an additional, very big problem now, when we talk about new mutual trust. parliament has no say in this debate. the decisions on nuclear safety and stress tests are taken in the council and euratom in cases of doubt, and parliament is outside. we usually give our opinion. whether or not there are consequences is up to the stars. if you now say that we will go against the old euratom treaty in the future and ensure that there is a voice and transparency in all areas of security, then perhaps we can understand each other even better.
mrs harms, i did not quite understand the question because it was not a question. but that's okay, because i've made an effort and i'm still making an effort to take advantage of the opportunity now. you know, we both have a totally controversial position on this issue. it would be a huge signal of jurisdiction to the contrary if we agreed with a large majority on the question of greater security. and the resolution contains much, much more than what we have decided so far, and also much more than i was prepared to agree to so far. that's right, i did. you're right about that. but if we can agree on more security and more europe, then that can also be a signal to the member states. if we do this in a debate tomorrow because we have different positions on the question of whether or not to leave, it will probably not have much effect. i'm only advertising for that, nothing more and nothing less.
(question to the president: blue card, referred to in article 149 (8) of the ec treaty) - what? i wanted to ask you if there's been any change in your personal position. the sweater i'm wearing today is 30 years old: we were demonstrating against nuclear power. we have been told by the so-called experts that the risk is once in ten thousand years. now, in a recent interview with time, the president of the potsdam institute for climate change, mr schellnhuber, said: "yes, that is true. ten thousand years through 400 nuclear power plants worldwide is 25 years. every 25 years, there's a reactor accident. first chernobyl, now fukushima, and then where? have you changed your position on this point? do you still believe that nuclear power plants are safe, or do you believe with me that zwentendorf is the only nuclear power plant in the world that is safe?
my opinion has changed, of course, but not in principle. is it so bad to hold your own? but i've changed my mind a lot, and i hope you've noticed. i said that i would support this resolution if it remained as it is. that's a big change from before. you can now consider that sufficient or not sufficient. i have been campaigning for this and i will continue to campaign for it: it would be worthwhile to adopt this resolution unanimously!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you heard the chairman of the committee on industry, and now i speak as chairman of the committee on the environment. the differences could not be greater. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the nuclear safety standards are met. there is a consensus. commissioner oettinger, your stress test is an important first step, but it is far from sufficient. i also believe that there needs to be a rethinking that goes much deeper and is much more fundamental. that is why, in addition to the highest safety standards in the eu, we also need a scenario for the phase-out of a technology with risks that we cannot account for in a densely populated europe. mr reul, you and the others must go along with this. your people in berlin are much more advanced than you are here in strasbourg and brussels. they've probably made the switch while you're still clinging to the old ideas. so, i hope we can come up with a wording, a scenario, an exit strategy. and, commissioner, your road map in june of this year would be a wonderful opportunity to do that. they also have to provide an idea of how we're going to get out of this nuclear technology after the stress tests. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have spring in the mediterranean, but we have winter in the gulf and in syria. the images of violence we see are terrible. we have several hundred dead to mourn. amnesty international and the united nations have produced shocking statistics. the liberal group's demands are very clear. we want as soon as possible - and this is a demand which the council should adopt and which the member states of the european union represented there should also put forward - a special session of the human rights council in geneva. this advice is always very readily available when it comes to taking sides in the middle east conflict. it is now the time when it is really called for in these massive human rights violations. we need reforms, we need a transition to democracy, we need an arms embargo - all of this has been said here. i watched president assad's speech live in syria. this is a medieval-looking dictatorship, but at the same time it pays western pr agencies to make their representatives appear in glossy magazines as pseudo-modern modernisers. i think both the agencies and these magazines should ask themselves whether this is really good. then there's the yemen. the danger here, in my view, is the greatest: the danger of a split between north and south, an active al-qaeda cell, the danger of a failed state. we already have such a failed state in somalia, our mission atalanta is operating in the gulf of aden. europe has an immediate interest and we need to hear more than what has been said here today by the council representative.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to ask the two representatives of the council and the commission why they feel they have to be vocal on this subject. i think it will not help anyone if it is not stated quite concretely that, in preparation for the istanbul conference, the member states of the european union and the european union must finally fully comply with their commitments on development aid and that it cannot be tolerated in any way that member states increasingly evade this commitment. it is unacceptable that a billion people still go hungry every day, and that most of them still live in the ldcs, the poorest countries in the world. and it's not acceptable that much of our development aid is not going to support and build agricultural infrastructure, but that this share has been declining rapidly in recent years, and that's with a billion hungry people. then to say that we hope the ldcs will become more shock-resistant, i think that's cynical. i ask you to address the problems concretely and clearly and to make concrete commitments to help the ldcs in practice!
mr vigenin, you have spoken here as rapporteur and not as an election speaker. do you know that the country has made tremendous reforms and progress? the european union has acted unstably. the european union was blocked, the council was blocked by the blackmail policy of greece, which the hungarian presidency has quite clearly mentioned. do you know that, or do you really believe what you said?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. like mr swoboda, i would like to compare croatia and macedonia. both countries are exemplary in terms of minority rights. in both countries, all minorities are represented in government, which is not the case in most eu member states. there is one difference, however: in croatia the opposition has generally behaved constructively. in macedonia, the socialist opposition has been brutally obstructing the process. i regret that there are colleagues in this house who have today made themselves the instrument of this socialist opposition's campaign.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. can a lasting peace be achieved by force in a deeply divided country like côte d'ivoire and legitimize the winning president? there are considerable doubts, especially since the real causes of the conflict have not been eliminated. economic problems, not least caused by structural adjustment programmes of the world bank, destabilised the country. the swift adoption of sanctions to weaken the gbagbo government has worsened the situation and contributed to the dire humanitarian situation in côte d'ivoire. the legitimacy of both presidential candidates is controversial. the armies of both sides are committing massacres of the civilian population. but once again the west is taking sides, and now the un is waging war, opening the way to victory for one side, together with french troops. will european powers - now with the protection of the un - decide the fate of african peoples as they did in the old days? what about international law? is that the idea behind the un? instead of seeking peaceful solutions to conflicts, civil wars are encouraged or intervened in by taking sides. whose interests are at stake?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i'd like to express my surprise that lady ashton is not here again. i'm glad to hear that she's being represented by my friend zsolt németh. i would like him or mr füle or someone else to be the permanent coordinator of the european union's foreign policy, and not someone who is virtually never to be found in the european parliament. i would like to make it very clear that there are, of course, many problems in côte d'ivoire that need to be solved. but the winner was clearly president ouattara, and he is the one who is democratically legitimized. the african union and many others have also seen this. we must therefore be grateful that the un and, above all, the un secretary-general and president sarkozy have prevented a massacre like that in rwanda or in other african countries such as the congo. that's why you shouldn't hint at it. of course, this does not solve the problems. but if mr putin now starts criticizing the un and says that the un secretary-general has exceeded his mandate, then he is destabilizing the un at a moment when it is most urgently needed. the african union should also be less vocal, because it has failed utterly in this crisis. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. we europeans have made many mistakes and continue to make many mistakes. but in this case, i have to say, the fault lies elsewhere.
the next item is the joint debate on the statements by the commission on the review of the european neighbourhood policy eastern dimension (2010/2958 ((rsp)) and on the review of the european neighbourhood policy southern dimension (2011/2642 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eastern partnership is a very young programme. it is important, however, to examine, as we do in our report, whether we have moved closer to the stated objectives of democratic reform in our eastern european neighbours. there are both advances and setbacks. for belarus, but also for ukraine, the autocratic system of russia, characterized by softness in foreign policy and hardness in domestic policy, repression and repression, seems to be more attractive and more oriented than the eu's offers. but the experience and the mistakes made in the mediterranean union, where security was sought by supporting despots, show that we must rely on other forces than corrupt governments. our objective of an active civil society based on freedom and the eu's fundamental values will only be achieved from below by promoting and supporting civil society self-organisation. the civil society forum set up within the framework of the eastern partnership got off to a good start here - and it is currently the only body in which opposition forces from belarus are also involved. unfortunately, the seats in euronest are still vacant until there is a freely and correctly elected parliament. the civil society forum should be supported, as we have described in paragraph 20 of the report. but this will remain an empty declaration of intent unless we underpin it with effective measures. i therefore urge you to support amendment no 5 tomorrow, which provides for continuous financial support and an organisational secretariat. so please support amendment no 5 tomorrow so that we can move forward in the development of civil society! there's a really great approach here. i have seen it myself in berlin, how these people from below are shaping what we have set ourselves as a goal.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. thank you for bringing this up. the european parliament is quite unanimous in saying that the neighbourhood policy has not produced the expected results. i agree with that. i do not agree with the analysis of the causes. the result is not what we expected, because we have not put the interests we share with our neighbours first, but our own interests and our ideas of how development should be carried out in the neighbouring countries. what we need is something else, quite obviously: a policy that puts cooperation between the two sides at the centre as a principle, that consistently respects the sovereign right of citizens in the partner countries to shape their future without outside interference, that focuses on our common european challenges in terms of content and that transforms the partnership policy into a permanent instrument of genuine partnership discussion and finding solutions to common problems. without rethinking and developing new policy approaches, we will not make any progress in neighbourhood policy!
the debate was closed by two motions for resolutions, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the commission has the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 april. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
− the next item is the commission statement on the use of sexual violence in conflicts in north africa and the middle east (2011/2661 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the forced so-called virginity tests by the egyptian army on women protesting in tahrir square and the multiple rape of a libyan woman by soldiers are cruel crimes which have given rise to today's resolution. we cannot rule out that even more sexualized violence is happening on all sides in the conflicts in north africa and the middle east. we in the european parliament last november called for the eu member states and the eu itself to finally address the situation of women in war and armed conflict. the eu's representative to the eu's foreign affairs ministers, ashton, reported on progress at the time. there is an improved international framework for violence against women in conflict zones, and several countries have adopted national action plans. the exchange of best practices is very important. the eu has already committed over eur 300 million for inter alia medical measures and another eur 200 million has been approved for the implementation of un security council resolution 1325. local strategies in conflict zones are planned for 2011. the training of staff is of great importance. it is therefore imperative that all these experiences and measures be explicitly incorporated and taken into account in the implementation of the eu pact for partnership and democracy with the southern mediterranean countries. i am sure you will have the support of parliament.
the debate was closed by the tabling of five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 april. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the eib's core mission is to promote the eu's objectives through long-term financing of sustainable investments. this also means that the eib is committed to the eu's canon of values, i.e. social standards, transparency and high environmental standards namely the development of a sustainable economy and job creation. however, we hear from ngos involved in the implementation of eib-funded projects on the ground that compliance with these standards is by no means guaranteed in every case. this has been mentioned by other speakers. ngos criticise the lack of transparency in the way loans are monitored, used and reported by eib donors, both at eu and global level. how well is this criticism of the eib known and how much does the eib actually follow up on it? that is our question. in any case, we believe that there are plausible demands from ngos for the eib to make lending through financial intermediaries more transparent and to develop clearer financing conditions for financial intermediaries and efficiency criteria for lending. to improve transparency, ngos continue to propose the disclosure of environmental and financial information on eib-funded projects before they are approved. in particular, eib projects in third countries should be subject to independent sustainability assessments to determine the economic, social and environmental impact of the project. but it seems that the problems are not only with regard to transparency. the monitoring of compliance with eu environmental, social and procurement standards is also criticised by ngos. the eib should be able to monitor the implementation of these standards in all its financing operations. projects which do not meet these standards should be excluded from funding. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eib's current objectives include the promotion of sustainable and secure energy supplies. in the wake of the fukushima nuclear disaster, the promotion of sustainable, renewable, carbon-free and nuclear-free energy generation and the promotion of energy efficiency must be given top priority in all areas of eib investment. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it's difficult to go into detail about that now, given the amount of time. but i have a lot of ngo reports that i'm happy to share. i think they are known to the eib as well. these reports discuss and criticize the way in which the eib supports local development assistance in some african and asian countries. i can give you the reports, but i cannot answer the question in detail here.
mr president, mr president of the european investment bank! this debate is very important for the economies of our member states. it has been shown that the countries with a healthy structure between large corporations and small and medium-sized enterprises have emerged the best from the crisis. if i project this on germany, it means that in the situation where 70% of the economy is made up of small and mediumsized enterprises, we also have the corresponding number of employees, that we can provide the corresponding training places. this signal must also be sent to the banks in the member states that investment can be made easier, that small and medium-sized enterprises can expand and that the european investment bank is providing support. this is very important if we are to get our economies growing again, if we are to be competitive with the american and south-east asian trading markets. that is why i think this initiative by the european investment bank is of the utmost importance. but it also has to have an impact if we are to have growth here, if we are to get out of the economic and financial crisis.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission is grateful to parliament for its support for the proposal to further facilitate vaccination against bluetongue and for its recommendation in relation to this very important issue. in particular, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr wojciechowski, for his commitment to this cause. bluetongue has been the cause of a great deal of concern to all farmers in the european union. until the 1990s, bluetongue was considered exotic to the eu, with outbreaks only occurring sporadically in southern europe. however, recent years have brought several epidemic waves of the disease, affecting many member states, including in central and northern europe, causing significant losses to livestock production and disruption of the trade in live animals. the past few years have seen a significant improvement in the bluetongue situation across the eu, thanks in no small measure to massive vaccination campaigns largely co-financed by the european union. the eu co-financed eur 150 million in 2008, and allocated eur 120 million in 2009 and eur 100 million for the following years. under current rules, vaccination is only allowed in areas that are subject to certain restrictions because of the presence of bluetongue disease. the proposed amendments to the directive introduce the possibility of using inactivated vaccines everywhere in the european union. the amendment would allow a wider use of preventive vaccinations against bluetongue and this will ensure better control of the disease and lessen the burden it causes to the agricultural sector. parliament’s report is most timely and important for the animal health situation in the european union. the report rightly recognises the need for urgency in order to give member states sufficient time to vaccinate animals before the next bluetongue season starts. we must not lose sight of the fact that, although the bluetongue situation has improved greatly in recent years, the disease has not been eradicated. the eu remains at risk for new epidemic waves of bluetongue in the future and it is important that member states have the opportunity to protect animals against the virus when they are at risk. member states should be able to optimise their vaccination programmes with the aim of reducing the impact of future bluetongue outbreaks in the european union. indeed, a number of member states have already indicated that they wish to implement this measure at the earliest opportunity. the rapporteur refers to the really very difficult issue of the correlation tables, which are very important for tracking the correct, appropriate transposition of eu legislation into national legal systems. this is a longstanding issue and we have had many debates in this house on how to control and monitor the proper transposition of eu law into national legal systems. we can see that the correlation tables are the best tool for doing this, monitoring it and assuring appropriate transposition of eu law. at the same time we are very aware that, especially with such urgent issues as the one we are discussing today, we need to work very hard to find a solution between parliament and the council in order to avoid unnecessary blockages. i hope that the council will demonstrate sufficient flexibility so that this legislation can be adopted on time before the start of the season in which bluetongue can break out.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the directive on vaccination against bluetongue is, as has been said, a very important step towards the eradication of this dangerous animal disease. the disease affects ruminants such as cattle, sheep and goats. it can lead to the death of the animals. the new inactivated vaccines can eliminate the risk of infection and therefore can be used successfully in areas where the disease has not yet occurred. this will allow member states to make more efficient use of vaccination and will significantly reduce the burden of this disease on the agricultural sector. the new vaccines are finally making it possible to achieve a truly comprehensive control, and i hope that the member states and farmers will accept this possibility. it is a safety factor and it is without doubt an important improvement in animal health. the more we control bluetongue with new vaccines, the greater our economic opportunities for exporting farm animals. in order for the directive to enter into force and for the new vaccines to be available, it is indeed important that we reach a decision quickly. the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development has adopted the report unanimously, and this is a clear signal that the epp group will follow this line in today's vote. i support the rapporteur's call for the tables of correspondence to be left in the directive. it is not possible for us to take european decisions without informing the member states of the way in which they are implemented. we need this transparency - and i say this very clearly to the council - to strengthen credibility in the eu as well. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work and for the good cooperation he has shown. thank you very much. we shall support the report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the adaptation of the vaccination requirements for bluetongue is in line with the new eu vaccination policy, as expressed in the animal health strategy 2007-2013 under the motto 'prevention is the best medicine'. a more flexible approach to the vaccination of farmed animals is necessary to better control diseases such as bluetongue and to reduce their impact on agriculture. more flexibility and prevention are certainly desirable in the case of a number of animal diseases. a strict non-vaccination policy, as we have been doing for a long time in the eu, is no longer the order of the day. i think we're doing the right thing here. i would also like to support mrs paulsen who said that we must expect other animal diseases in the near future because of climate change. we need a clear strategy here, and we can of course put it into practice. i would like to say again in this context that the cologne issue should no longer be discussed in the commission. and of course, in the case of bluetongue, one of the benefits is that we've supported research and now we have an inactivated vaccine and we can vaccinate people in a way that was very dangerous and very difficult before. so we have a new situation here. i also thank the rapporteur for working so quickly. experience shows that we must expect the first illnesses in late summer and autumn. this is why countries must develop and implement vaccination strategies. mr agnew, i would like to tell you that if you have a good vet, he will recommend vaccination, because that is what the vet doctors want, as i know him and as i hear it repeatedly in the discussions. of course, it's not over yet. the commission must draw up implementing regulations and adapt them to the new process, and this must be done as quickly as it is done here in parliament. the commission is therefore called upon to act quickly so that we can apply scientific progress this year.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the need to improve the conditions for vaccination against bluetongue is of the utmost importance, because only with the new inactivated vaccines can the manufacturers eliminate the risk of infection with this potentially highly dangerous disease, since the vaccines can now also be used in areas where bluetongue has not previously occurred. in this context, we must emphasize again and again that agriculture, including the export of farmed animals, is an important location factor in all european countries. that is why farmers need the opportunity to take advantage of the latest veterinary knowledge that has gone into the development of these vaccines. what we need now, especially, are two things: firstly, we need a quick solution for the practice in the european union. secondly, i think we need just as urgently a reporting obligation on measures introduced in the member states, i.e. a reporting obligation of the member states to the commission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european single market has also been established to better meet the needs of european consumer protection. the consumer has a right to be able to buy healthy and fairly produced products anywhere in the european union. market openings, i.e. a controlled import quota, must therefore satisfy at least three requirements: first, the quantity of imports authorised must be clearly controlled. the first is the quantitative aspect. secondly, the quality of the products must also be controlled. this also applies to production standards. and thirdly, the impact on the farmers of the european union must be taken into account. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore ask the commission to take a critical look at the new agreement with morocco and to conclude it only after a fresh examination.
i have to say, madam president, i am somewhat disappointed that parliament has not found a majority today to draw sensible conclusions from the accident in japan. i have no doubt that this means organising a clear energy transition away from nuclear energy - a step towards the exit - at european level. secondly, it must be clear that if we have stress tests, then even a power plant that fails must be taken off the grid. neither of them won a majority in the vote. that is why i could not support the resolution. i hope that we will be able to organise a unified energy policy in the near future so that we can move safely and with a reasonable position into the energy future - towards energy efficiency and renewable energies.
i have to say, madam president, i voted for the resolution and i am extremely sorry that parliament has not been able to reach a unanimous position today. i say this especially to those colleagues who may have asked for more. i think it would have been better to have agreed to the compromise, because i also know that the question of nuclear energy is answered very differently in the european union. but precisely because environmental and accidental impacts do not stop at national borders, it would have been important for me to include and accept the minimum requirements. firstly, we need a common safety standard in the european union. second, we need to prepare for accidents or disasters that may occur. we need a european disaster response plan. thirdly, we should not neglect research into renewable energy, but also into fusion, storage and recycling of nuclear fuels.
i have to say, madam president, i am glad that every member of the european union is a member of the european union and that is why i have agreed to this request. but i would like to see all the problems clearly and clearly brought to the table, and discussed and clarified beforehand, especially in the accession negotiations. because problems that are not resolved by misguided kindness are not resolved by it. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. i repeat: i welcome every new member of the eu, but each member has not only rights but also duties.
i have to say, madam president, i also voted for this report and for this resolution, for macedonia. but there's one little thing that you have to mention to keep it honest. we cannot force people and ethnic groups in other countries to rename their language because other countries don't like what they call themselves. this is regulated by international law, and in our case too we as europeans must be careful to remain honest. i was very angry that the one amendment which i voted against, namely that macedonian should not be called macedonian, was unfortunately adopted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and in view of this positive attitude, i would like to thank all the colleagues who voted for this resolution and all those who are working with the european parliament in the delegation of the european parliament. we should give this perspective to the people who are looking forward to europe. let's work together on this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't know how often mr verhofstadt is here. i wanted to ask him if he would like to come more often, so that he could see that the meetings here are always very attractive. there are some people who won't come, but that can be changed. the meetings are quite attractive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr. ai weiwei, as an artist, has given faces to the children of the earthquake, the victims of sichuan. he gave a face to charter 08 as a civil rights activist. and now he's giving a face to those people who have disappeared in china's dungeons and prisons thousands of them anonymously. we know hundreds of them, and we must give a voice to these people who have shown their faces for human rights, but who have been temporarily silenced, here in this house. so i say very clearly that these human rights debates and dialogue are of course necessary. i understand anyone who says they don't feel like talking to a rubber wall. but if we stopped talking about this rubber wall, then the dictators would have gotten what they wanted. there was a great reformer, zou enlai. zou enlai was not a democrat, but he was a chinese patriot, and he opened up his country. what we need is a democratic zou enlai who also decrees a democratic opening for his country. because if the country does not get democratic reforms, it will slide into crises, as it experienced in the 30s of the last century. it is in china's interest to help human rights breakthroughs, and that is why we must support these initiatives.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think what the chinese are doing here is a deliberate political provocation, or rather, it's a political test. the strength, the stability and the credibility of democratic states are to be tested. it's an attack on human rights. it is also true that there must be dialogue, but precisely for this reason we must make it clear to the people's republic of china that further economic cooperation must go hand in hand with further democratization of the country. we therefore call for the release of mr weiwei. moreover, if dictatorships do not want to be accused of political processes, they always use the card of tax evasion or economic crimes. this was the case in the former gdr, it is the case in russia, and it is also the case, unfortunately, in the people's republic of china. i therefore strongly support this resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to start by agreeing with guy verhofstadt. it is a shame that these human rights debates, which are very important for us europeans who believe in values, always take place on thursday afternoons when most people have already left. we have to change that. but now it is china, and we are more or less powerless, as has already been said. mrs. lichtenberger said she had a rubber wall. mr posselt, i do not think that it is in china's interest, as you have said, to help the human rights movement to make a breakthrough. apparently this is not in the interest of the chinese government, but it is certainly in the interest of the people of china. it 's about a lot of people today: ai weiwei, liu xiaobo has also been approached. we have discussed this many times before, to help human rights to make a breakthrough. we must not only get baroness ashton to speak out against human rights abuses in every corner of china. we must do this together, all our foreign ministers and representatives, and we must stand together. i think that's the only way you can really impress china a little bit. otherwise china will play us as a major economic power against each other and we will achieve nothing at all. and that would be very bad, especially for the people affected.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. on 20 march, some 80,000 tibetans in exile around the world participated in the direct election of the new prime minister and members of the government. meps, including members of the intergroup on tibet, were on the ground as observers. in switzerland, i experienced what my colleagues in other countries had observed: the elections were fair, secret and absolutely democratic. the only incident was in nepal. there, under pressure from the chinese government, security forces prevented tens of thousands of tibetans from voting. they are continuing the targeted measures of last year, when ballot boxes were confiscated and polling stations were closed. nepal is not a vassal state! the government in kathmandu must prove that it can free itself from chinese influence. the fundamental rights include freedom of speech, freedom of assembly and, last but not least, freedom of choice. the european external action service must insist on the respect of these human rights, commissioner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a child, i received letters from what was then rhodesia. three of my grandfather's sisters served as catholic nuns in what was then rhodesia and in south africa. you never wrote that the people of rhodesia are starving. what we are hearing from this country today is simply unbearable. rhodesia and later zimbabwe was the granary of southern africa. the communist-socialist dictator mugabe has succeeded in turning this granary into a famine zone. i thank all the members who have brought this matter back on the agenda. it is intolerable that the dictator mugabe should be allowed to continue to terrorize the people of zimbabwe. i believe the key to ending this lies in southern africa. until south africa has brought this dictator to justice, he will continue to terrorize his people.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the continuous rise in fuel prices is an additional burden for many businesses in the european union. european fishermen in particular are suffering from this price increase, as they cannot simply offset the additional costs by catching more or better prices. the current political situation in north africa and the middle east has aggravated the situation. we therefore need to examine the impact of the increase in fuel prices on the eu economy and employment. which sectors are particularly vulnerable and what could be the support without distorting competition? we therefore call on the commission to examine this. it is important that we give the european fisheries industry a backstop, also to avoid increasing our dependence on imports from third countries. we are facing the reform of the common fisheries policy, and we are therefore particularly obliged to act cautiously and not too hastily on this subject.
a writer. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european fisheries sector is in a deep crisis; my colleagues have pointed this out. fishermen in all european seas are complaining of painful declines in income that can reach existential proportions. why is the income of our fishermen falling? i believe there are three reasons for this: firstly, the decline in fish stocks; secondly, the general fall in prices, particularly where fish stocks are healthy and the supply is too large; thirdly, and this is the point, higher operating costs due to rising crude oil prices. politics is required here. we have to do what we can to help. i'm emphasizing what we can do. the conservative motion for a resolution promises more than we can deliver. they are calling for a 100% increase in de minimis aid from eur 30 000 to eur 60 000 to pay for fuel subsidies. but many member states cannot afford to subsidize fuel at all. the majority of european fishermen are thus not helped at all. the other two problems remain: firstly, the overfishing is actually getting worse, and secondly, the problem of market prices remains unresolved. i think that the problem of financial support for fisheries is much more serious. the member states do not use the european fisheries fund, although the european union pays 50%. we must change this in the interests of our fishermen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission has already made a number of proposals. political initiatives to expand high-speed internet connections across the board are generally welcome. but frequencies are a scarce and above all a public good. the committee on culture and education was therefore particularly concerned to make clear that frequencies are and will remain indispensable for the fulfilment of a wide range of social, cultural and social tasks. we have therefore taken particular care to ensure that the provisions of the telecom package on safeguarding media pluralism and cultural diversity are not passed by the back door. both public and private broadcasting are essential guarantors of media pluralism and diversity of opinion in europe. it is necessary to ensure that they can continue to perform their essential tasks without hindrance. the committee on culture therefore proposed that the 790s should not be opened for the time being, but unfortunately the committee on industry, research and energy did not follow this. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. it was also particularly important to us that clear compensation arrangements be made before the allocation of frequencies, so that theatres and all those using wireless microphones, for example, would not be burdened with the costs of switching frequencies or of new technology. we are all called upon to continue to strike a fair balance between the interests of all. i hope we can do the same in the future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. radio spectrum is a precious and limited asset which must be managed with care, foresight and a societal approach. that is why the radio spectrum policy programme is of particular importance. radio frequencies must be used efficiently, taking into account economic, social and cultural aspects. this requires the full use of technical possibilities in all areas of the band to achieve the greatest possible efficiency. the basis of the radio frequency policy must be the telecom package adopted last year. this is because it also states that the management of radio spectrum must be in the interests of the eu and its member states, in the cultural, social and economic spheres alike. this must be taken into account in particular when harmonising the use of spectrum in the eu. in this context, i would like to point out that the implementation of the digital dividend 1 in the member states has so far been very different. further opening of the uhf band, especially below 800 mhz, should therefore only be considered in the light of experience in clearing this band. many technical and financial questions remain to be resolved. the problem of interference and the question of compensating the cost to cultural institutions and local authorities of technical conversion, for example in the area of radio microphones, has not yet been satisfactorily resolved. the allocation of the frequency bands must be based on a responsible balance between the different interests. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the commission with a list of the countries that have not yet received the necessary information. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european audiovisual industry. we must set the right course for technological development and europe's position in the field of digital information technology and cultural diversity.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the situation in pakistan is still very bad, almost three quarters of a year after the catastrophic floods, and the people of pakistan need our help. the european union was right to act and to put together aid packages worth millions very quickly, and it is important that the aid actually reaches the people. i personally was not very happy from the outset that the commission, under pressure from the council, proposed to use foreign trade instruments in particular to provide short-term aid to pakistan. i have also raised this several times in the committee, and i have asked in particular that the person responsible for foreign policy in the european union, our high representative, should also come to the committee or to parliament to explain to us why foreign trade must make this contribution, that we should in principle be presented with an overall strategy of the european commission, that we should put this in a common context and perhaps in this way convince ourselves that it really makes sense - i say it again - to have foreign trade make a short-term contribution here. i am very grateful to mr david and others for having succeeded in putting together a package which has won a large majority in the committee. i would like to stress the time limit we are asking for. this is the only way to avoid a number of mishaps. but what is the situation in pakistan right now? while bin laden has been eliminated, the question of the last few days as to how much the pakistani government officials knew who was hiding in their country remains. many colleagues, including those in my group, are not happy about this. and we still do not know how the other countries will behave in the wto and whether they will give their consent in the end. it would therefore be good if we voted on the amendments tomorrow, but not on the final vote, but on referring the dossier back to committee so that we can see once again what the final outcome of the wto talks will be and whether it makes any sense for us to give our consent at the end of this package.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is now almost a year since the people of pakistan were hit by devastating floods. we are all very closely connected to the people of this suffering country. the real scandal is that the wto negotiations are still dragging on, and that alone makes it clear that this form of trade facilitation is not suitable as a relief measure. my group has repeatedly called on the commission to present a plan b to help the people of pakistan to rebuild their country quickly and in a sustainable way. but an alternative solution was never presented. perhaps the commission is simply helpless or helpless because it feels itself hampered by resistance in the eu council, which it knows very well. otherwise it must appear that the difficult negotiations in the wto are being used as an alibi for inaction. you and we both knew that these negotiations would be difficult, probably when some of the foreign ministers of germany and other member states sent you on this mission. the trade facilitation in textiles, leather and ethanol that you now want to grant pakistan would undermine the gsp+ status that countries like bangladesh have acquired, unlike pakistan by ratifying important un and ilo conventions on workers' rights and environmental protection. it is precisely this status advantage that enables bangladesh to import, process and export to europe raw materials from pakistan. no wonder the country is fighting back. we cannot expect all seriousness when we want to help pakistan at the expense of one of the poorest countries in the world. we are also doing ourselves a disservice, and this on the eve of the presentation of the commission's new draft for the revision of our system of trade preferences. i therefore conclude that we should give priority to direct aid for post-flood reconstruction and act immediately instead of getting lost in the negotiations in geneva. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already done so. we all believe that we must help the people of pakistan, but the instrument you are proposing, commissioner, is wrong for three reasons. first, there is no evidence that trade facilitation benefits the people affected by the flood. on the contrary, one can even see that the textile industry in pakistan is at home in other regions and has even made a growth in the last year. so this industry is not really affected! i do not understand how trade facilitation can be used to help the people affected by the flood. secondly, i cannot understand how a country that does not meet the conditions of gsp+ in terms of social and environmental standards can now be given these facilities and send a signal to other countries that do, like bangladesh, that your efforts are not wanted, that there is another way. the third argument, mr commissioner, is that this is not a solidarity approach, because the burdens in europe are borne unilaterally by certain sectors and by certain countries. if we want to do something, we should do it in solidarity with all the countries, with the participation of all, and that means we need direct aid for the flood victims! that would be the way to go.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the state of play of the negotiations on the eu-india free trade agreement, by vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000059/2011 - b7-0214/2011)
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mr moreira and the committee on international trade for giving me the opportunity to address the plenary on this important negotiation. it goes without saying that to conclude an agreement with india at this juncture is not only of great economic value but also of major strategic importance. india is just at the beginning of a development path which will make it one of the key economic players of this century. an ambitious and balanced agreement with india would take our relationship to a different level by providing a stable, predictable framework governing our future economic relations. we are therefore working very hard to bring this negotiation to a conclusion and there is a real opportunity to do so. india is clearly interested at the highest political level. the india-eu summit in december came out with a strong commitment expressed by both sides to conclude the negotiations as soon as possible. we have made progress across a range of issues. we are making headway on the tariff offers and are preparing the exchange of offers on services. we are now intensively negotiating on procurement, and this is the first time that india has negotiated a substantive procurement chapter including specific rules and market access commitments. having said this, i do not want to hide the fact that there are also still some thorny issues on the table which require difficult negotiation. as with any negotiation, the last yards are the most difficult. firstly there are the tariff negotiations where we have made some good progress quickly over the last few months and i am confident that india will significantly improve its offer, but a few sectors remain very difficult, notably cars, and wine and spirits. we are also having very intense discussions on services and the contours of a possible package are getting clearer, but some of our key interests concern sectors where legislative reform is still ongoing or being contemplated in india. this mainly concerns insurance, postal, financial, retail, legal and accountancy services. this makes negotiations very challenging. there is also sustainable development, which is of course very important for us but very sensitive in india. we are fully aware of the views of the european parliament in this respect and will take those into account. however, we must remain realistic. we need to see what will ultimately be possible with a partner like india. we need to find a solution which satisfies our expectations but also takes into account the specific situation of india. so yes, there will be a chapter on sustainable development that will be part and parcel of the agreements, that will recognise the importance of relevant international standards and be based on cooperation, but we also need to be clear that a sustainable development chapter which would allow the use of trade restrictions linked to social or environmental issues will not be acceptable to india. this would also not be in accordance with the model we are advocating in our trade agreements in general. we are not pursuing sanctions but cooperation in this area. another issue which has been sensitive in this negotiation and the cause of some concern is access to medicines and the potential impact this fta might have on access to medicines in the developing world. but let me reassure you on these crucial points. we are fully aware of the specific role played by india as regards access to affordable medicines in the developing world. therefore this fta – whether its intellectual property rights chapter, its investment chapter or any other chapter – will not undermine the capacity of india to promote, produce or export generic medicines, including through compulsory licences. we ourselves have even proposed very clear language to this effect, but at the same time one should bear in mind the potential of a robust framework on ipr in india, which can certainly encourage innovation and research, including as regards the development of new medicine. therefore negotiating a chapter on ipr with india remains an important objective for us in this negotiation. let me also be very clear as regards data protection and data exclusivity for pharmaceutical products. what we will be asking through this agreement is that, if and when india decides to introduce a system of data exclusivity, it will be applied in a non-discriminatory manner so that european producers will also benefit from it, and of course we continue to believe that access to medicine and the protection of test data can coexist constructively. further dialogue by all interested stakeholders should help to develop a common understanding on this matter. also, in the intellectual property rights chapter, geographical indications are a major area of interest for the eu. it is important to obtain in this negotiation a political deliverable allowing for the effective protection of the major eu gi names. negotiations have so far proven to be difficult. nonetheless, the commission continues to push for a satisfactory outcome. finally, as you are aware, the commission has also proposed to the council additional negotiating guidelines to also negotiate investment protection. these draft negotiating guidelines have been shared with parliament subject to the appropriate confidentiality requirements. the council is currently examining these guidelines and we look forward to hearing parliament’s view on them. when and how this chapter can be negotiated will ultimately depend on when the council manages to agree on these additional negotiating guidelines. let me conclude by reiterating that this negotiation is very important and, i believe, an opportunity we should not miss. of course we should not conclude an agreement at any cost but only if the substance on the table is right. if the substance is not there we should simply say no. some of our requests, such as access for our cars or wines and spirits or the opening of certain services sectors, are difficult for india to deliver. i look forward to more intensified exchanges on this with the european parliament as we move into what is hopefully the final phase. i believe the debate we will now have is a useful opportunity for this house to give its views on these negotiations. these views will be taken into account as far as possible, taking into account the realities and specificities of this particular negotiation. in this respect we look forward to the resolution that you are planning to adopt on the india fta, which i believe is very timely.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to express my full agreement with the commissioner on india, it is good that we are talking to the indians about a free trade agreement. the strategic reasons alone - you have mentioned several of them - speak for themselves. the fact that we are unfortunately not making progress in the wto is even more in favour of this free trade agreement with india. but where i remain very concerned is the question: will we really be able to get our companies into the indian market? in the end, will this free trade agreement really be suitable not only for a world, for a distribution of economic power between europe and india as we know it today, but will it also be suitable for 10 or 15 years from now? i am increasingly concerned about the question of exceptions. i understand very well that the indians are currently in negotiations demanding certain exemptions in certain sectors. a country of india's present level of development needs exceptions. this is certainly a concern which we in europe can understand very well. but i would like to make it clear that i want all these exceptions to expire on a certain day. i would like the exemptions to be either clearly limited in time or to provide for certain benchmarks, however they may be designed, so that the commission can perhaps think about what proposals it intends to make to the indian side. i therefore want very clear deadlines for all exceptions, whether on the basis of dates or benchmarks. we owe it to our companies and therefore to our employees. i would be very grateful if you could tell me to what extent you have such derogations and possible time limits for them on the table at the moment in the negotiations. the second big issue: i also want to agree with you on intellectual property. we must achieve results for our farmers and other interested parties, particularly in the area of geographical indications. we must also help our manufacturers with medicines, but i think we can all agree that this must not be at the expense of those who depend on access to cheap medicines.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, let us be clear: this free trade agreement is not negotiated on an equal footing. india’s per capita gdp is about 6% of that of the eu. india, although ambitious, is a developing country with a huge number of poor and starving people within its borders. we must not forget this. we are bound by the principle of policy coherence for development, which is enshrined in the lisbon treaty, and it tells us that none of our policies must harm development. yet, with this fta, we are causing harm – to agriculture, retail, indian companies, etc. examples have already been mentioned. in addition, through the dispute-settlement provisions, we are reducing the policy space for india, and for the eu and its member states, to introduce, for example, new environmental legislation. the mechanism in question has led to multinational companies suing countries for their policies on health and environment – and your governments, too, will be affected by this. with regard to generic medicines, as i see it, they are not out of the danger zone. pushing for data exclusivity in any form is a problem, no matter how it is done. parliament needs to send a clear signal to the commission that a trade agreement should be fair and should not curb the policy space. unfortunately, however, the members of the epp, alde and ecr groups are actually curbing their own power as members of this parliament. in the committee on international trade they have consistently asked the commission not to pursue the investment chapter until parliament has given its opinion on what investment policy should look like, but now, in this resolution, they are calling on the commission to go ahead without waiting for parliament’s opinion. how come? i really hope that some of our colleagues can have a second look at the text before simply agreeing to it on wednesday. i hope we can send a clear signal to the commission and thereby influence the negotiations, making it very clear that we want to exercise our powers as the european parliament.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the draft resolutions before the european parliament make it clear to all the political groups that parliament - as has already been pointed out - does not feel sufficiently informed about the actual state of the negotiations. so i thank you for today's more thorough information. the question of the left wing of this house in particular directly addresses the concerns of the people in europe, but also in india, about their own social and economic situation and the prospects of workers and jobseekers in the eu member states as well. as we know, the devil is in the detail, commissioner, so here's what we want to know: what are the specific negotiating topics in public tenders in the service sector or in connection with labour migration? what is the text on intellectual property rights on the table? what about the environment and agriculture? we want to examine the specific texts to see whether india's role as the world's poorest pharmacy is being jeopardized or whether the agreement is hindering the production of cheap medicines for malaria or aids, without neglecting the huge research investments of the local pharmaceutical companies. we want to see whether european municipalities, hospitals or ministries should be obliged in future to submit tenders to which indian companies can also be involved. we want to know whether the agreement regulates the conditions for entry of indian nurses or nurses of old age into the member states of the european union, including the duration of stay and the recognition of qualifications. we want to know whether the text of the treaty will endanger small farmers and fishermen in india and whether european steelworkers will be threatened with redundancy because indian capital will be able to be invested in the eu in the future in company acquisitions without restriction.
the commission has already done so. i think it is important that we should jointly shape the negotiations after the treaty of lisbon, because this treaty has given parliament a new role in trade relations. if we remember that india is a market of the future, we must also remember parliament's clear position: we consider industrial development in the european union - linked to jobs - to be of central importance. the aim is to make it clear that the interests of industrial jobs in europe are at the forefront of trade agreements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it is not possible that we can have 100% tariffs in the machinery and automotive sectors and then negotiate perhaps 50% in the end. as long as we do not have a zero tariff, investment outside europe will be encouraged. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this includes creating a level playing field in social standards, so that india also has to have clear obligations in terms of workers' rights!
member of the commission. − madam president, the tsunami and earthquake that hit japan last march constituted a major tragedy. the resilience of the japanese people reassures us that japan will be able to overcome that tragedy and to emerge from it stronger than before. the help offered and the solidarity expressed by the eu will also be instrumental in achieving this recovery. this tragedy came a few months before a very important summit between the eu and japan, scheduled for 28 may 2011, which is set to define the direction of our relationship for the years to come. as you know, the previous eu-japan summit of april last year established a joint high-level group composed of senior officials to identify options for the comprehensive strengthening of all aspects of the eu-japan relationship, in the political, economic and sectoral cooperation fields. on the trade side, the high-level group looked into ways of strengthening and integrating the economic relationship, addressing all issues of interest to both parties. these include tariffs, non-tariff measures, investments and procurement. from japan’s side, the clearly stated preferred option is to start negotiations on a free trade agreement which includes preferential tariffs. however, from the eu side, an agreement focusing on tariffs would clearly not be enough. the problem with japan is, indeed, not so much tariffs but the fact that eu exporters and investors still face all sorts of non-tariff barriers. typical examples of these include cumbersome approval processes for medical equipment and certain food products, and lack of convergence with internationally recognised standards for car parts and components. barriers in these areas have been in place in the japanese market for decades. we have raised these matters in the various bilateral dialogues between japan and the eu over the past few years but little progress has been achieved so far. in the light of this, we would need an agreement that would also tackle non-tariff barriers, increase market access for investment and open the japanese public procurement market. the focus of the high-level group’s trade discussions has been on exploring how to achieve progress on these issues. a degree of progress has thus been delivered on a limited number of non-tariff measures from a list identified by the eu, namely three out of 27, but for most non-tariff measures on the list we feel that japan has failed to present a credible road map demonstrating how the problems should be solved. so, in the commission’s view, what has been achieved in the high-level group provides, at this stage, no more than a good basis for further discussion. on 25 march 2011, the european council reiterated the strategic importance of the eu-japan relationship, confirming that ‘the forthcoming summit must be used to strengthen this relationship and bring forward our common agenda’. in this regard, the conditions for a successful fta should be explored on the basis that japan can demonstrate its willingness to tackle, inter alia, non-tariff barriers and restrictions on public procurement. discussions are still ongoing with japan. last week i met foreign minister matsumoto precisely to discuss this matter. in my opinion, it is not yet clear how far we can progress, in the limited time before the eu-japan summit, with regard to fulfilling the council’s conditions. in particular, more work is needed in order to arrive at a shared level of ambition on agreeing the contents of the negotiation, as well as an ambitious but realistic outcome. this could be achieved through a so-called ‘scoping’ exercise, which could be conducted after the summit. once that has been done, we would examine the results and decide whether or not to launch the negotiations. on the trade and economic side, the level of ambition should include, at least, aiming for the following: 100% duty and quota-free treatment for all goods; a robust and credible road map for eliminating a critical mass of non-tariff measures; an open investment regime to achieve levels of foreign direct investment into japan comparable to those of other oecd countries; and a government procurement market with a level of openness matching those of the eu countries at all levels of government. i should also mention that, if the summit leaders decide to go ahead with the option of a comprehensive bilateral legal framework, this should include both trade and investment relations and political relations and cooperation. this comprehensive approach, encompassing all bilateral, political and economic relations in a balanced way, is necessary in order to fulfil our targets and our ambitions for a deeper strategic partnership. we are, indeed, at a crucial stage in our economic relations with japan, and there are still some issues that need to be clarified. i therefore welcome this debate and look forward to hearing your views on how we should shape this relationship in the years to come.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the commissioner for giving us an overview of the current state of trade relations between the european union and japan. i have the impression that, unfortunately, little has improved in these trade relations in the last two years. you mentioned the summit in 2009 and the high level dialogue, and i have the impression that at least until now this dialogue has not succeeded in gaining significant additional market access for european companies in japan. i am very concerned that, after the first initiative, the high level dialogue, has failed, people are not just thinking about how to achieve tangible results through this high level dialogue, but are already thinking about whether to negotiate a free trade agreement. i can well imagine that a free trade agreement with japan is useful, but before we start such negotiations, it is not too much to ask if we first expect first results from the existing instrument, namely this high level dialogue. i say this quite openly, and i do not say this to take away some negotiating chip from the japanese in advance, but i say it because i really want to see whether the japanese are serious about intensifying our trade relations and really opening up their markets and also their minds to our products. i would also be very interested in - and i am sorry that you have not at this stage, commissioner, made any reference to this - how you intend to include the european parliament in the allocation of the mandates. i have the impression that we have a lot to say about japan in particular. we have also repeatedly criticised parliament in the negotiations with india, canada and korea, saying that we sometimes had the impression that the negotiations did not set the right priorities, and it would therefore be very helpful if you would involve parliament very closely in the allocation of the mandate.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. when the european union-japan summit begins at the end of this month, there should be only one main topic at the outset: the disaster that has struck japan in connection with the earthquake, tsunami and the continuing radioactive contamination of the people, and what concrete contribution the eu, its member states and the peoples can make in the short, medium and long term to overcome the consequences. i would like to express my sincere sympathy to the japanese people. we must immediately make offers of partnership to help overcome the disaster, particularly in view of the debate we have had on pakistan. the summit should take concrete decisions, in particular on cooperation in the rehabilitation of contaminated areas and on joint research and development in the field of renewable energy. the possible deepening of our trade relations and economic cooperation through such an agreement should not be based on the tragedy. the negotiations should therefore not be rushed into but carefully examined, taking into account the different traditions and ways of life. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the intellectual property rights, public procurement, many things have been raised, and in particular the investment chapter could also reduce political room for manoeuvre on both sides. this calls for long-term impact assessments to be carried out on the chapters and aspects of the future economic and trade cooperation agreements between the eu27 and japan. in this sense, the european parliament as a co-decision body but also the public should be involved in the allocation of mandates.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. some groups are certain, as it seems, that it is right to pursue an ambitious free trade agreement with japan now. my group - as you have heard - is not sure. i myself sympathize with this because i believe that we can help japan to create new economic dynamism after the disaster that has befallen the country by strengthening trade cooperation. but there are fundamental questions that cannot be avoided. i do not want to repeat what has been said about the need for impact assessment in the bilateral area or about not making the mistake of first defining free trade priorities and then making european industrial policy a dependent variable and also considering the question of contribution to sustainability. i want to emphasize something else: the effects of such a free trade agreement between two of the giants of international trade on the whole structure of world trade must, in my view, be discussed much more thoroughly than has been the case so far. when two such trading partners negotiate a free trade agreement, it is not a purely bilateral matter. so far there is no free trade agreement between two of the world's economic superpowers, this would be the first and what does that mean? what is the strategic perspective? what are we triggering? it is not enough to simply say: we want multilateral trade, and if we do not get it, then we will leave free trade in a bilateral dimension and wait. we have a responsibility to make the implications clear to the european public, and that is why the involvement of parliament in the allocation of mandates, as called for by several colleagues, must play a central role!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr carl schlyter, for his work, for trying to reach a compromise that is acceptable to all, in the spirit of the european parliament, and for working together to find and develop the best solutions. it's not an easy subject. a common investment policy of the european union within the framework of international trade policy, with all its implications for the social, economic and employment situation in the eu and its member states, balancing the interests of financial groups, large companies, economic enterprises on the one hand and trade unions and employees on the other. it is therefore important that such an agreement be concluded in a democratic way and that citizens' confidence in parliament's monitoring function be maintained. i hope, therefore, that the vote tomorrow will also show that this compromise, which has been sought, is supported by parliament.
i have to say, madam president, the security of investments at home and abroad is important for economic development both in europe and in the partner countries concerned. only if investments are safeguarded will they be made and can safeguard jobs or create new ones. so two things are important to me. firstly, the more than a thousand existing agreements must be maintained. it is not worthwhile to throw investors, member states and others into a kind of legal uncertainty. secondly, and this is particularly important to us, there must be many joint european agreements in future, which will then apply to all 27 member states and to investors from those member states, so that we can also have uniform protection within the framework of the european internal market. i am very grateful to colleagues like schlyter, but also to colleagues like zalewski, sturdy and rinaldi, who have tried and succeeded in reaching a broad consensus. i would like the other groups to consider whether the compromise on the table is not a very good solution which seeks to include all the interests. i would like to make it very clear to my group that we want a good solution for investors, workers and member states. we want to have quick negotiations with the council so that we can reach a solution not just on christmas day but as soon as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to conclude by saying that we would be very grateful and very open to a rapid agreement at second reading, i.e. not to go through the normal second reading procedure, but to reach an early second reading agreement. i would like to thank all those involved once again, and i think that this legislative procedure shows the foreign trade committee that we are also able to deal with complex issues and complex dossiers in a timely manner.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make four brief points, firstly: a huge headline about this project: security, reliability for investors who want to invest in the eu and those from the eu who want to invest. they must all be able to rely on the existing treaties. secondly, with all due respect to the rapporteur for his really very extensive work, we should not go too far in trade agreements. i would like to take this opportunity to say that i am very pleased with the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore thank the rapporteur for his fair cooperation. we shall then see how the vote goes tomorrow. thirdly, i very much welcome the fact that the commission, as mr de gucht has just indicated, does not call into question the existing treaties. this does not mean that now that the lisbon treaty has been signed, the eu should not, if necessary, conclude new treaties as quickly as possible. but if mr de gucht is of that opinion, he will certainly agree with the substantial weakening of the review instrument for existing agreements, which we voted on in an amendment, as well as with the restriction of the grounds for withdrawal of approval to four clear criteria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore good that this directive clearly defines a transitional period.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the process we are facing today, the discharge for the european commission's expenditure, is an essential process. it may have been a little lightly executed in recent years, but it is in fact a major task of the european parliament, namely to discharge all the european commission's expenditure for 2009. we are aware that 80% of this expenditure is shared between the commission and the member states. nevertheless, the overall responsibility for this process remains with the commission. that is why i am speaking to you directly, commissioner šemeta. i would like to begin by thanking you. i'll put that right at the beginning. i would like to include my colleagues who have been very cooperative, who have been very supportive of parliament's position. but we have had very intensive discussions, mr šemeta. you have only partial responsibility for 2009, but you have contributed fully. we have had some very heated arguments, we have gone into great detail. but i would like to emphasize that you have also placed discharge very much at the centre of the agenda within the college, within the commission. president barroso spent over an hour with us discussing the details. they themselves have also made a great contribution to changing the commission's attitude to discharge, the attitude of commission officials to this whole process. i appreciate your being so frank about it. the pressure we have put on parliament this year will ultimately help you to create more transparency. you now have the means of exerting pressure on the member states, but also on your own administration, which has been somewhat lax in dealing with these issues. but i also think that we must use this momentum that we, mr šemeta, have created together - and i ask you to pass on the thanks to commission president barroso - and use this momentum for the further discharge reports. we must be clear about one thing: for the 16th time in a row, the european court of auditors has not given a positive decision. this is not an insignificant matter. so, 16 times in a row, you didn't actually meet the criteria. we have, however, set out some main criteria which i shall briefly discuss and which you have fulfilled. i am pleased to have the future rapporteur on discharge, christofer fjellner, very close to me. i hope and wish that he will continue to work with this momentum. you have started, dear commissioner, and this is crucial, because it is 80% shared responsibility, to clearly identify the expenditure which is not due in the 2009 budget of the european union. you counted them openly. that is why we have set out five main demands, based on this new transparency. the first is a long-standing issue, an old one, which parliament has been dealing with for a long time, namely the national administrative declaration. i am also pleased to point out, as a representative of the liberal group, that this was initiated in the liberal group, in particular by dutch colleagues. this is the confirmation by the finance ministers that the eu funds have been spent correctly in their home country. we do not yet have this national administrative declaration, but we want to have it. i'm looking forward to working with christofer fjellner in the future. you, commissioner, have promised that we will examine whether stricter conditions can be introduced by the next financial perspective in 2014. it is important that you have set out guidelines for which we are grateful that you have shown which countries actually submit administrative declarations this is meagre, basically only the netherlands fulfils the conditions in full and that you have instructed the directors-general to indicate for the first time in the 2010 activity report what elements will be included in a future national administrative declaration, even if this will only be done at the working level. the second key requirement is that the commissioners must also take on greater responsibility. they have proposed a voluntary commitment by the directorates-general to inform their commissioners of any irregularities. thank you for that. the third and most important thing was that you applied the instrument of suspension of payments more. you have set out clear criteria for when you will do this, you have openly told us in what form you have done this in the last two years. thank you for the openness and transparency that helps to pass the pressure on to the member states. thank you also for the guide which will help the member states. you also promised to set clear standards for the evaluation of performance evaluation, which is an obligation you have under the lisbon treaty anyway. thank you also for including us very much in the process of performance evaluation, the performance audit. and you've agreed to simplify, because the complexity of the matter often leads to hiding behind the rules and to condoning abuse. i also thank you for setting out very specific requirements for the next financial perspective. i am in favour of continuing in this vein. i believe that the commission has been raised to a very different level by parliament. i wish christofer fjellner the best of luck and i would also like to thank my staff in parliament, especially bent adamsen and dominykas mordas.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has made a very positive statement in its opinion for the committee on budgetary control. we were very satisfied with the way the commission services have implemented the funds. there was no criticism of the way in which it was spent or the amount of money spent. on the contrary, we can only praise the good and rapid use of the life programme's resources. the commission has managed to spend the additional funds we have allocated, and to spend them in a sensible way. the agencies in our area eea, ecdc, eca, efsa and ema have also been responsible with their money. the committee on budgetary control, unlike the committee responsible, criticises the agency in its report and even wants to deny it discharge. that's what i call, if i'm being nice, overshot. the committee on budgetary control is not so nice to say that it is meddling in matters which are outside its competence. he should keep that. i can only ask parliament and the house to correct this.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to spend just one minute as the author of the opinion for the committee of the regions and then speak for two minutes again in the debate as the speaker of my group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the regional policy budget remains the achilles heel of the overall budget of the european union. we still have about 5% of the payments in the regional fund which are fraught with errors and therefore have to be characterized as irregular payments. even payments that seem correct sometimes support grotesque projects. i remember that elton john gave a concert in naples with the support of the european regional fund. all of this was labeled as tourism promotion. this may help, but i believe that real regional aid for naples must be different. the reason for this is that too often the member states still consider european regional fund funds to be soft money. we can see this in the fact that the repayments of irregular payments are being stopped, that the commission very often - and we expressly welcome this as budgetary controllers - has to resort to the instrument of interruption, and that the timeliness of reporting suffers. the director-general for regional policy cannot give us any assurance of the legality and reliability of more than half the operational programmes because of the inadequate reporting by the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
the next item is the continuation of the joint debate on discharge 2009.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, as rapporteur for buildings, i can say that the figure of eur 136 million is definitely wrong. secondly, it is not a prestigious project. we are constantly complaining that people do not know what has happened in european development since the second world war, and we want to make sure that two to three million people a year know about these developments and know more about them, so that they are perhaps less eurosceptic. we should discuss together the operating costs and the synergies that could be achieved with the information centre. a great many members took part in the debate. however, the debate has only just become public, so that some colleagues do not feel sufficiently informed. i am happy to be available for any discussion or information you may need. i think the project is necessary and useful, because people need to know more about european development, otherwise we will have more and more eurosceptics. secondly, on the subject of development aid: first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr bart staes, very much for the fact that we have really reached a report which is very, very largely community in nature, and which i can clearly support. i think it is necessary to give priority to development aid in the areas of infrastructure, health, education and, above all, agriculture, and in particular to consider, perhaps, the evaluation of projects after ten years. because it is not our goal to start short-term projects that are not sustainable. we should also ensure that we achieve better coordination of development aid with the member states and finally ensure that the entire development aid budget is integrated into the eu budget, because it is incomprehensible that only part of development aid is included in the eu budget.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to welcome the hungarian presidency of the council and the president of the european court of auditors with the members. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their cooperation and also all the representatives of the institutions for coming on behalf of the epp. i would like to point out to the council that parliamentarians are elected to control the executive. so the idea that national governments can control the european parliament is an unprecedented attempt to weaken this parliament. so your offer isn't really an offer. it's an offer to make us small and weak. how would the national parliaments react to such a proposal? so please, what you dare not do at national level must also be taboo at european level! i would like to say, as regards the discharge in the european parliament, that we can see improvements in management under the present presidency and the present secretary-general. and i would like to expressly acknowledge these improvements for the epp. we see that action is being taken and that things are being done at our request, such as the intervention in the voluntary pension fund, which was absolutely necessary to avert an immediate bankruptcy of this fund in 2009. i should now like to turn to the proposals for the revision of the staff regulations. these are numbers 77 and 81 in the report by our colleague mr chatzimarkakis. these proposals have led to unprecedented lobbying by the parties concerned, including by staff here in the house. but the criticism of the statute is justified. the statute dates back to the 1950s and has never been updated. it measures travel days as in the days of the steam railway, and the privileges come from a time when working abroad was absolutely unusual. this is no longer justified today. we have today the last and, incidentally, the only opportunity to intervene in the run-up to the reform of the statute. my proposals also concern whether it is normal for a commission staff member - without annual leave, mind you - to be given up to seven weeks paid leave, including for all those earning more than eur 10 000 net per month. i mean, overtime must absolutely be included in the salary. the point is that jobs are being created. and with the cancellation of some of these days off, several thousand jobs would be gained. these 1,000 posts are not to be used as a marker, but to support the new tasks of europe, so that we can rely on the european commission instead of the constantly new authorities and agencies that we must always create first. we should also try to get a realistic picture of the administrative costs. the current 6.7% of the budget is far too low. they may apply to direct management, but not if we include all administrative expenditure, including that of the member states, in the management of eu funds. i suggest that we here in the committee on budgetary control draw up an own-initiative report on the actual administrative costs of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the council and the commission! i shall now comment on the agencies with which i have dealt in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. but first, a sentence on the permanent discussion of strasbourg or brussels. i am a clear supporter of strasbourg and i believe that in case of doubt we should move the whole parliament to strasbourg and not to brussels. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. in the committee on the environment we have examined six agencies which have generally achieved excellent results in terms of the intensity and quality of their work. the errors have dropped significantly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the agency for chemicals, which monitors the majority of our reach projects, has created 104 new posts. in the case of the efsa, the food safety agency, it is worth noting that we still need to achieve more precise monitoring and greater transparency. at the ecdc, the centers for disease control and prevention, we have to say that the resources have not been fully used. the commission has not yet completed all its tasks. the epa, as a reliable source of data and figures, is very important to our work, to our shaping of the future. i would like to see a more precise assessment of the cost savings achieved for the union as a whole by improving the environment and to have the figures presented. the european medicines agency, despite its long history, is still facing considerable difficulties. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european research area. but overall i think the work of the agencies is very positive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr ulmer, i thank you for your very factual contribution. that's a nice contrast to a lot of things i've heard about the agencies here this morning. it is very distressing to see that many of the colleagues from the eurosceptic parts of this house think of nothing else, and again and again, in terms of budgetary savings, but the agencies. i would just like to remind you that the moment the agencies were awarded, the prime ministers and governments of our european union behaved as if no member state could get enough of these agencies on its territory. and now it is being done here as if this were a visit to the european union. i am very much looking forward to the announced study by the european court of auditors on the management costs of the agencies. i think that on this basis we will finally be able to have a more objective discussion. i am delighted - i said this in my first contribution - to have the representatives of the hungarian presidency here with us this morning. this is not a matter of course in a debate which also involves the discharge of the council. that is why, minister becsey, i am addressing you directly. i am pleased that the council is prepared - i have heard this from your colleague mr deutsch - to recognise that the budgetary procedure and the discharge procedure are to be handled differently. this european parliament is the representative of the people and it demands accountability for the use of taxpayers' money. in this respect, we do not rule out the possibility of also calling the council to account for the funds which have been transferred to the council from the community budget to finance its work. of course, we can negotiate a lot of things with each other, such as what the discharge procedure may look like in the future. but i would like to ask you whether you seriously expect the european parliament to negotiate something which is our contractual right. in the end, there could be only one limitation to this right. i cannot see why i should do that as a representative of the european parliament. unfortunately, we do not often have the opportunity to discuss this with each other, and i would be glad if you would take this opportunity to explain to us who in the council is actually opposing the need for transparency.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner again on behalf of the house for the very good cooperation. you have now raised a number of points again. we should build on that and keep working on it. but i would also ask you to convey our thanks to your colleagues, because we have had a very intensive exchange with many individual colleagues - i would like to mention in particular the two gentlemen cioloş and hahn - and both have worked very cooperatively. i ask you to tell them again. i would like to thank the president-in-office, mr becsey, for his clear words. he used clear words, which we may not like, but at least he is clear in his statements. thank you for that. i take it for granted that you're here. i don't think this is a good time to bring it up. i still think it's good that you're here. i would like to thank the president of the court of auditors, mr caldeira, with whom we have always worked in a very open and cooperative way. we appreciate it. our work would not be possible without your background. our discharge is based primarily on your contributions. we would like you, mr president caldeira, to play a greater role in the future evaluation of the evaluation report, i.e. the performance audit. the future of the european union depends not only on whether the funds have been spent legally, but above all on whether they have been spent in a meaningful way, namely in terms of efficiency and effectiveness. this will form part of the evaluation report under article 318 of the lisbon treaty. we in parliament want to have an annual debate on the commission's performance review and we want you to be invited to come and participate in the debate as the court of auditors' representative. thank you very much to the colleagues and to all.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the developments in the southern neighbourhood and the ensuing migration flows are posing a serious challenge for the european union. they have served to underscore the importance of looking at the whole issue of how we manage migration and refugee flows. therefore the european council in march called upon the council and the commission to submit before the june european council a plan for the development of capacities to manage migration and refugee flows as a response. the conclusions adopted by the justice and home affairs council on 11 and 12 april 2011 and the communication issued by the commission last week are important steps in this direction. the presidency has convened an extraordinary meeting of the council on justice and home affairs for 12 may in order to discuss the issue of the management of migration and refugee flows. these discussions will help to prepare for the meeting of the european council on 21 june which will address the same issues. we cannot of course stand idle in the face of events on the other side of the mediterranean. the eu and the member states are ready to assist both those displaced as a result of the latest developments in north africa and those member states most directly concerned. over the past few months the eu and the member states have made available approximately eur 96 million of emergency humanitarian aid and we are committed to continue to provide further support as and when the situation requires. the council has also invited all member states to continue their support for unhcr, the international organisation for migration, the red cross and all relevant actors, the efforts of which are paramount in helping those displaced as a consequence of protracted violence in libya. those member states more directly affected by these developments are receiving contributions of funding, equipment and technical expertise; for example the commission announced earlier that approximately eur 25 million from emergency funds could be made available for member states such as italy and malta. furthermore, the newly-created european asylum support office, although still in the process of becoming fully operational, is also available to help. some member states, including hungary, have already said that they are ready to reallocate refugees from malta in order to alleviate pressure on the authorities there. apart from the specific measures intended to address this particular situation, the council remains fully committed to the further development of the common european asylum system. work is under way in the council and parliament and some progress has been already achieved, despite the technical difficulty and the politically sensitive nature of this subject. in general the management of migratory flows in the eu and in individual member states requires the effective management of borders. as far as the management of external borders is concerned, frontex has an important role to play in a number of ways, including the monitoring of the eu’s external borders and providing operational support. in the light of the latest developments in north africa, joint operation hermes was launched on 20 february 2011 following a request from the italian government. this is aimed at preventing and detecting illegal border crossings to lampedusa, sicily, sardinia and the italian mainland. frontex is also supporting the italian authorities in second-line border control activities by the briefing and screening of migrants. the council also welcomes the commission’s decision to mobilise supplementary funds needed by frontex to continue its planned joint operations. we have urged member states to provide further human and technical resources as required in support of the agency’s operations, including hermes. as you know, the new proposal concerning frontex is in this house and we have been negotiating it. i very much count on the support of parliament in bringing this legislative proposal to a conclusion and ensuring the success of the negotiations. against the background of the recent migratory pressure from north africa, the strengthening of frontex has become a high priority for the council. i would like to express my thanks to mr busuttil and the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation and i very much hope, as i have just emphasised, that a first-reading agreement can be achieved by june 2011, as was called for by the european council in march. developments in the southern mediterranean, in particular in relation to the tunisian migrants arriving in lampedusa, have also raised questions about controls at internal borders. this in turn touches on the issue of freedom of movement within the european union. the council fully agrees with the view held by almost everyone here that the free movement of persons within the schengen area is a major achievement. those member states that have asked for the revision of the schengen system have also underlined that they were proposing this with the intention of preserving the free movement of our citizens, which is one of the cornerstones of the union. improving the security and governance of the schengen area in a time of increased pressure is a means to this end. that said, in the light of the increased pressure on some external borders and the calls from member states to strengthen the system of the schengen rules, the council needs to look into how we can further guarantee the principle of free movement and, at the same time, citizens’ need for maintenance of a high level of internal security. at the council meeting on 12 may 2011 the presidency plans to initiate discussions on the various ideas on the schengen acquis which have been put forward by the commission in its communication on migration of 4 may. the council looks forward in particular to examining the commission’s suggestions for a mechanism concerning the coordinated and temporary reintroduction of controls as a measure of last resort, based on objective criteria and respecting the community method. the council will also have a chance to discuss how to continue work on the revision of the schengen evaluation mechanism to ensure more efficient and uniform implementation of the aquis. of course our immediate priority is to deal with the effects of the dramatic events in the southern mediterranean, but we also have to draw lessons for the future. in short we need to put in place a strategy for the longer term. some of the issues which i have set out will help in creating such a strategy, but i look forward to discussions which can lead to a comprehensive approach to migration, fully in line with our global approach to migration. along these lines prime minister orbán has recently said that we should clearly differentiate between economic migrants and political refugees. europe must welcome the latter if she wants to be true to herself. europe must help, through means similar to a marshall plan, the countries of north africa so as to create liveable conditions there, thus tackling the root causes of migration. that will require not only agreement amongst ourselves, but also consultations with our neighbours and in particular in partnership with the countries of northern africa, and it will need to take into account a wide range of factors such as international protection, migration, mobility and security. to conclude, from a wider perspective, our southern neighbours will be assisted by all available means in their transition to open, democratic and prosperous societies. this is the best possible way of addressing the push factors driving irregular immigrants towards our shores.
president of the commission. − mr president, today we are here to debate migration and cross-border movement of european citizens, but let me start by reminding all of us that yesterday was the 61st anniversary of the schuman declaration, which laid the foundations of the european union, and from that day began a process in which european people have been willing to come together and put aside their differences, to build a european continent without borders, where our citizens can move freely between countries. for regions like the one where we are now, here in strasbourg and in alsace generally, living on a frontier no longer equates with being restricted by borders, and the benefits extend far beyond these border regions. for the vast majority of european citizens, the right to move freely is the embodiment of the european project and one of the most tangible results of the european union, and i am pleased to say that most europeans use their right to the full – people make around 1.25 billion journeys as tourists within the european union countries every year. that would be completely impossible without the european union. i still remember when we had to overcome many difficulties in order to travel from my country, portugal, to spain. so it is indeed a great mark of the progress of civilisation that countries are able to lower barriers at their borders and let citizens move freely. moreover, in terms of the economy too, free movement is central to the success of the single market and europe’s continued efforts to boost growth and jobs. to put it plainly, free movement is to europe what foundations are to buildings. remove it and the whole structure is undermined. last week the commission presented a communication on a more structured approach to migration, referring, inter alia, to a proposal on a reinforced schengen governance system. other proposals will follow in the coming weeks, and here i want to praise the work of commissioner malmström who, with great intelligence and sensitivity, is doing her best to find the right approach to this complex matter. let me concentrate on the governance of schengen because i understand that this is the most important concern here in parliament. of course there are many other proposals, on the reinforcement of frontex and on a common european asylum system, for example, but i hope we will have other occasions to discuss such issues in greater depth. last year the commission put forward proposals to preserve and strengthen the schengen evaluation mechanism as a central element in the acquis of our common project, and i want to emphasise that last year – i.e. well before the recent developments – the commission had already identified some problems in the governance of schengen. we will now update and complete these proposals and we will do all we can to achieve swift results. the current migration situation in the mediterranean and the resulting pressures have highlighted some weaknesses and uncoordinated reactions by member states in the management of schengen. in the wake of these exceptional circumstances, we urgently need to reinforce the governance of schengen and of the external borders. we need better coordination between the commission and member states and, above all, between member states themselves. while recent events have provided a spark of urgency in bringing this matter to the table, the commission is taking this opportunity, through the communication, to address the long-standing underlying inconsistencies and unresolved issues that have provided scope for some member states to act unilaterally and not necessarily with a european union perspective. it is time to nip this tendency in the bud: to stop it ab ovo. the commission has already taken short-term measures to deal with the situation in the mediterranean. in addition, the package we put forward last week urges rational reflection, taking into account short-term needs for strengthened external borders as well as a broader approach to asylum and migration. these issues must also be considered in the light of our neighbourhood policy, trade with north africa and support for democratisation, as well as europe’s own long-term labour shortages and efforts to boost european competitiveness. this is not a knee-jerk reaction. this is not improvisation. this is and must be a broad range of measures built on the foundations of a strong and successful european policy, defining the best interests of the european union and its citizens now and into the future. at the same time, the aim is to give relief to those member states who are trying to cope with an unfair share of the migration burden. when thousands of people arrive on the shores of one country, it is not because they dream of living in malta or lampedusa; it is because they are seeking a better life in europe. countries that are more directly exposed to massive migrant inflows cannot be expected to deal with them alone. the rules on free movement of citizens benefit all countries in the european union. it is the duty of all countries to support those countries that come under particular pressure at one time or another. this means that burdens have to be shared equitably. it also means that all member states need to take their responsibilities seriously. when looking at burden sharing, all the pressures and all the contributions need to be taken into account, and this is the very spirit of the european union: the management of crisis by solidarity and responsibility. solidarity and responsibility are the key words in our response. immigration is a european challenge. immigration requires a european response. that is why the commission’s proposal aims to take union governance of the schengen system a step further, showing that there can be solidarity between member states. this is about common governance, not unilateral moves. i emphasise once again that this is part of an overall approach. the strengthening of frontex and the move to a common european asylum system are also aspects of such an approach. allow me to make one point crystal clear: this is not about finding ways for member states to reintroduce border controls. i firmly believe that to do so would not only catastrophically undermine what europe has constructed over the past 61 years, but also sabotage the viability of our efforts to build a prosperous and integrated europe for the future. moreover, member states already have the right to exercise this option unilaterally under the existing schengen system. that right has been exercised in the past to help member states cope with specific short-term exceptional circumstances, for example in the wake of terrorist attacks or in relation to the movement of drugs. these exceptions should remain exceptions, for i cannot emphasise strongly enough that reintroducing border controls is not a desirable development for europe, neither in the current circumstances nor in relation to the future challenges that we will face sooner or later. they should be an absolute last resort. moreover, we all know that internal controls can be sporadically useful but they are not part of a constructive approach to european integration, nor do they represent a cost-efficient long-term solution to monitoring movement and coping with immigration pressure. this has always been the case. the fact is that when faced with a massive arrival of migrants no member state will ultimately be in a better position if it tries to deal with them alone. only if member states face the situation together, can a lasting solution be found. the proposals we put forward one year ago to strengthen schengen, through an evaluation mechanism and intensified coordination of border surveillance, will help create a sense of union-wide discipline and shared guidance in the system. they will ensure that, in the future, countries will not feel pressured to take decisions alone that affect all schengen signatories. this is not, i emphasise, a new policy that undermines the union. it is a chance to strengthen it – a step forward for joint european governance, not a step back. it is the intention to reinforce the schengen acquis, not to depart from the schengen acquis. we cannot be blind to the fact that recent events have revealed a problem in schengen governance which we have to solve. if we do not reinforce existing mechanisms, member states will continue to act alone. they will, in fact, be encouraged to act alone. we will be giving arguments to the populists, the extremists and, in some cases, the xenophobes who want to call into question the great acquis communautaire in this area. this is why we think the best way to avoid putting schengen at risk is precisely to reinforce the rules of governance of schengen and clarify some of its aspects. this is not, i insist, about caving in to pressure from any part of europe. by enhancing our capacity to deal with crisis situations, it will put a more robust governance system in place that will equip decision-makers with better tools to resist populist or extremist pressure in the future. it is not a proposal intended simply to deal with short-term events, but there can only be real confidence in long-term solutions if we show that we can effectively address the short-term issues as well. it is not about turning back time: it is about getting the governance right today for the challenges europe will surely face tomorrow. it is not about abandoning citizens’ rights of free movement. it is about valuing their integrity by strengthening the rules. i am confident that this house will support our approach and our efforts. we are united in our determination to uphold the principles on which our union is founded, against any populist temptation. we know that it is now fashionable in some quarters to be extremist or populist, or indeed sometimes to wave the flags of xenophobia. this is not what we are going to do. we will resist all these kinds of pressure, but to succeed in this we need to give citizens the confidence that we stand firm on two things: first on correcting the shortcomings of the existing system so that effective relief can be brought to situations of pressure and crisis; and, second, on ensuring, on this basis, full respect for human rights and the humanitarian principles on which our union is founded. the people are ready to exercise solidarity, internally and externally, if they are confident that their security concerns are addressed decisively and comprehensively. i count on the support of this house in calling on the member states to take the necessary decisions quickly. our proposals are on the table. now is not a time to wait: it is a time to act, so that an open european union comes out of this challenge, united and stronger.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it has already been stressed that schengen is one of the great achievements of our common european project. citizens feel this every day when they travel in europe. it is the realization of the european dream, a europe without border controls. that is why it must be made clear in this debate - and in view of the debate in recent weeks - that we will work together in this house to ensure that this principle, this idea behind it, is not damaged by any initiative or debate. we will defend this principle in the european parliament! in recent weeks, we have discussed the situation of over 25 000 refugees from tunisia who have landed in lampedusa, italy. for years, a country like sweden has taken in more than 25,000 people a year! we have had states which have absorbed significantly more people in proportion to their population than is the case now on europe's southern border, and yet no one has thought of questioning schengen because of this situation. i would therefore like to make it quite clear that it is a pity that we in europe, unfortunately, have to have a serious debate on the schengen status because of this challenge which we have to face together. secondly, i would like to say that we are practicing solidarity. when it comes to countries like malta, this small country, which is massively affected and has no hinterland, solidarity is being practised today. i would like to stress that the second fundamental principle is that of the responsibility of the states themselves. i would also ask the commission to look into this. if the courts in the european union today decide that dublin ii is being repealed, that is, that refugees are not being returned to the countries of origin, then the question must be asked of the commission how much commitment it takes to those countries which are clearly not implementing the existing law when it comes to minimum standards in the european union. that is why i ask the commission to take action there too. i would like to make three points on the preparations for the council. firstly, in the case of migration, we must of course count on more immigration in the long term in terms of demographic development, but we have 24 million people in the european union today who are unemployed, and in spain youth unemployment is 30%. that is why we must also be very careful about the question of immigration. the second is the strengthening of frontex, which has already been mentioned. thirdly, i ask all of us to ensure that the countries which are now at the doorstep of schengen, namely bulgaria and romania, are not now left behind on the basis of the current debate. they tried, they tried hard. we do not want to lower the standards for accession, but if they meet the standards, then bulgaria and romania should have the right to join the schengen area.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i do not share the view that the commission's communication is a good one. i'm sorry, but i don't think that's what you mean. i think it's overblown and out of place. we are not dealing with a crisis in the european union. when 400,000 people travel from libya to tunisia, that's a crisis for tunisia. if 20,000 people cross the mediterranean to europe, it is not a crisis for europe. (applause from the centre) if we had a reasonable distribution of the burden in europe, it would not be a problem at all. and you have mentioned the figures, mr weber. no human being has been excited by these numbers on these scales. i therefore do not think that you have put forward a good point, mrs malmström, because you have not quoted article 78 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i don't know if you're familiar with him. article 78 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that when one or more member states are faced with a short-term influx of third-country nationals, they may take temporary measures, on a proposal from the commission and by a decision of the council after consulting the parliament. that is the third paragraph of article 78 of the current treaty! we have also introduced temporary border controls to prevent hooliganism during the european football championship or the world cup, on the basis of the schengen regime of 2006. there is no need at all to support the populist approach of two heads of government who have their backs against the wall in their countries and have sought a way out in a populist manner by presenting such a communication. (applause from the centre) what happened, mr president of the commission? a lega nord minister of the interior in italy says that all tunisians speak french. that's good, because we'll get them schengen residence permits and then they can all go to france quickly. the french president, of course, says: 'you don't have them all anymore.' all the tunisians who come to italy now want to go to france? you want to pin this on us? no, we're closing the border! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. what is the commission doing? it's putting out a message instead of saying, "dear people, this is the wrong way to go. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i expected you to be. (applause from the centre) the european spirit is being lost. how can it be that in this union, where one of the greatest achievements of the fundamental freedoms is the free movement of citizens, two heads of government can suddenly go and, because of a marginal problem which is very manageable, abrogate one of the really great achievements - that was a really good phrase in your speech - simply and arbitrarily? how can that be? the only reason these people are winning is because we're not fighting them enough! that's why i wish you'd fought. (the president cut the speaker off) i would like to say just one thing: i live on the border, the german-dutch-belgian border between aachen, maastricht and liège. if you can explain to me, mrs malmström, how the migration problem in the mediterranean is being solved by making me show my identity card again when i go from aachen to maastricht, if you could explain that to me, i would be very grateful!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we have to get to the point: we do not need any new regulation today or tomorrow for the temporary or other reintroduction of border controls. we must understand that freedom of movement - and this is the message of the european union - is a good that cannot be handled arbitrarily. it is a civil right that cannot be put into a relative perspective! and you know what really bothers me, frankly, is that there is a lot of talk about solidarity. who is talking about solidarity with the countries in africa which now have to take in hundreds of thousands of refugees and take in them without much debate? and who talks about solidarity with the people who flee war and come here to europe? you have to show these people some respect! i must also be quite frank, i do not want to talk about any changes to schengen, or any regulations, but about how we are finally dealing with migration in a sensible way. we are not going to achieve this by using frontex as a deportation mechanism, but by establishing a democratic and human right to asylum. that is what europe needs to do and that is what europe needs to do. that's why we have to fight, that's the real task!
i have to say, madam president, for the first time, the borders have been opened in germany and austria, and we have finally free movement of workers for the eastern european countries. here the borders are being torn down, on the other side you are trying to put them back up. i simply cannot accept that two member states, two men with a profile addiction, can really make it possible for us to discuss the reintroduction of border controls! we cannot allow this to happen any longer, and above all we cannot allow this monocausal discussion to be forced upon us. it has nothing to do with the fact that if we raise borders again, the refugee problem will be solved automatically. i beg your pardon. these people have managed to get to europe at the risk of their lives, and they will also be able to bypass the borders. only the traffickers may win, because the refugees have to find new ways to make the traffickers pay. i cannot accept that we are seriously discussing this and i call on the commission to make no compromises at all!
i have to say, madam president, open borders are an important symbol of europe. i would like to draw your attention to another problem here today. i come from northern germany, and therefore the german-danish border is also of particular importance to me. the right-wing populist danish people's party wants to force the danish government to re-introduce border controls. the reason: fear of people from romania and bulgaria. this is a scandal! the right-wing populists are developing rapidly and are becoming a real danger to europe. there must be protection against unlimited crime, for which our security agencies have long since found alternatives to passport control. i am very sad that one of our great european achievements is being jeopardized. the eu's historic success in promoting peace and freedom is thus seriously jeopardized. i call on the danish government not to let itself be taken in by right-wing populists!
the president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the house. transparency is a paramount principle of democratic institutions. this is particularly true of the eu institutions, as they are often accused of being closed-minded and opaque. the council is committed to ensuring the highest possible level of transparency between the union institutions and bodies. the council is also aware that citizens expect those entrusted with the handling of their affairs to respect the highest possible standards and therefore welcomes the initiative of the european parliament and the commission to establish a transparency register. i particularly welcome the reports of mr carlo casini. if adopted by the plenary, the reports will provide the basis for the establishment of the transparency register in the coming months. this is another way of showing that the union is committed to transparency not just in words but also in deeds. i take this opportunity to emphasise that i am aware that the council has received requests to participate in the transparency register. the council has so far been reluctant to participate fully in the process because, unlike parliament and the commission, it is not by nature concerned by the activities of interest representatives. they do not normally contact the council as an institution but target their activities at individual member states. however, i have already indicated that the council is ready to take part in the register and monitor its functioning. we are also prepared to discuss with parliament and the commission the modalities of the possible role of the council, without, of course, delaying the entry into force of the agreement between the two institutions. ladies and gentlemen, following a recent council decision, we are now examining the possibility of a political declaration to launch the register in june.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, transparency is an issue of interest and concern for citizens and is essential to increase the democratic legitimacy of the european union. i am very happy to inform you that already today we have more than 3800 registrants in the commission register. therefore, i am absolutely convinced that the adoption of a common transparency register will represent a major further step forward in enhancing transparency in the eu decision-making process and providing a direct response to citizens’ concerns. i would like to praise the very constructive work which we have developed in our joint working group. here, i would like to pay tribute to ms wallis, our president for today, mr casini, our rapporteur, and also to mr leinen and ms durant. it was an excellent group and it was a real pleasure to work with together. the result of our work is a very balanced and pragmatic draft of an interinstitutional agreement, which we are presenting to the house for consideration and debate today. a positive vote tomorrow will allow the joint launching of the register by our two institutions to take place in june. this will undoubtedly send a strong political signal confirming our determination to enforce transparent and ethical practices on the european stage. the register aims to give citizens more transparency as regards organisations and self-employed individuals engaged in eu policy-making or trying to influence the eu decision-making process. i understand that there have been some concerns about regional public bodies, so i had better clarify. the question was whether they should register. i think that if we read the text carefully it is quite true that it would not reflect their true identity and not reflect the fact that they ensure direct representation of their citizens as established by their own constitutional systems. a careful reading of the content of the agreement should give full reassurances in this regard. indeed, the text explicitly mentions that local, regional and municipal authorities are not expected to register. this approach is even reinforced by annex i, which indicates that public authorities themselves are not expected to register. services forming an integral part of the administration staffed by local, regional and municipal officials and engaged in activities corresponding to institutional or constitutional attributions will also not be expected to register. i hope this will help to clarify the concerns which i have registered over the last days. a final word on the interinstitutional dimension. i think we all share the view that the achievement of common cooperation with the commission and parliament would be further consolidated with the involvement of the council. therefore, i am very obliged to, and wholeheartedly thank, the hungarian presidency for changing the attitude in the council and for getting the council into a positive mood and positive mindset in looking for ways in which we can best arrange the relationship between the council, commission and parliament in managing the register, because the political signal that three institutions are taking this issue so seriously, and that three institutions are going to tackle the issue of transparency together, will be a powerful one. i am sure that, with such political support from all three institutions, the threshold of 4000 registrants will very soon be reached.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. transparency is the foundation of democracy, that people know who is influencing how decisions are made. and since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european parliament has significantly increased its powers. so it is right that we should always question our way of working, even ourselves. the negotiations between the european parliament and the commission on transparency registers have been a success and we have now a very good result. i would like to emphasize once again that it is good that we have found clear regulations for local and regional authorities and also for churches, which reflect their interests. i would also like to say that lobbying in itself is not a bad thing in our view. we need expert opinions, we need the call of experts for our work. in the end, it is important that we as parliamentarians weigh our options and make our own decisions. i would like to say that we as members of parliament can be very proud. if we compare nationally, there are only a few member states in the european union that have now established a transparency register at this level. in berlin, my home city, there is no such transparency register today, and we should therefore be quite confident that we have made a step forward. and to the council: if this issue is not a problem in the council because the influence of the lobbyists is so small there, then it should be all the easier to join the transparency register. so in that sense, perhaps the council can overcome its internal resistance. as a final remark, madam president, i would point out that if we as parliamentarians really want to work more effectively in the future without the influence of lobbyists, we must above all strengthen our equipment, our staff; then we can do more for the citizens of the european union ourselves.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the actors involved, because tomorrow after the vote a lot of work will be done, a long period of work. it is a good day for europe, for the european parliament and for the commission, because we have succeeded in launching a common transparency register. this is a milestone which still needs improvement. i would like to address two points. firstly, the register is not really compulsory. that must be said clearly here and now. i would like to ask the commissioner about this: the commission has always said that there is no legal framework. is the commission prepared to put in place such a legal framework so that we will have a mandatory register after the review? i am very pleased to hear the council say today that it does not consider it difficult, as mr weber has just said, to join our register. i would like the council to follow suit, because then the register will be really complete, when all three institutions of the european union have a common register and this register is also mandatory. we will also, as a group, support the amendment by another group which calls for the inclusion of money spent on lobbying in the transparency register. as far as the country representations are concerned, it has also been clearly stated that they will be excluded. i thank all my colleagues for their willingness to compromise. it would have been a real black mark on such an agreement if national representatives had been treated like industrial lobbyists or other associations.
i have to say, madam president, i thank mr duff for his reference to the legislative footprint. do you think that a legislative footprint - to what extent is it still to be defined - might also limit the work of the european parliament, and how far do you go with regard to the legislative footprint in terms of its scope and impact?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. politics is about trust. the members of this parliament are elected by the citizens of our member states in a free and secret ballot, and they rightly expect us to consider their welfare the welfare of the citizens, that is, the common good in all our speeches and decisions, and not the interests of ourselves or others of companies or other interest groups. but we also know, everyone knows, that there are more than 10 000 professional lobbyists around us, for example in brussels, who are doing exactly that, trying to influence members of parliament, members of the commission. this is inevitable, this is normal we live in a free and open society but we must maintain ourselves in this network and preserve our independence. it has not always been successful, and there have been members who have broken these rules, which is a crucial reason why we want to improve our rules. one of the most important conditions for trust is transparency, and that is what we are working on now. after very long negotiations, it was possible to negotiate this transparency register with the commission. i would also like to say that i would have preferred the council to have been involved. the greens have been campaigning for this for a long time. we are glad that this has been achieved, and we are also a little proud of the result, but i would like to say that we are not satisfied with everything. we would have preferred it to be binding, not only for those who work within the commission and parliament, but also for those who work outside, for example, over a glass of wine in a brussels establishment. we want it to apply to all three institutions, not just to parliament and the commission as it does now, but also to the council. we want the financial scale to be more precise and more meaningful, not just for the small ones in 50,000 steps and then for the big ones in large steps so that you know less exactly how much money is involved, but for everyone at the same levels, and we want a regular review by a joint secretariat. nevertheless, it is a good day for europe, for greater transparency in europe, and i thank all those involved for the result achieved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very much in favour of a well-balanced exchange of arguments in debates, but i am less happy when things are simply misrepresented. so would you please correct what you just said? you have just said that parliament is only talking about a transparency register because some british newspapers have recently published a story here. so would you please explain to the parliaments and the public that we started talking about this a long time ago and that the closure of this transparency register has already happened before the story that you have in mind happened?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. if we vote tomorrow on the transparency register, it will be a step in the right direction, but not the last word. first of all, i am pleased that we have renamed the european parliament's register of lobbyists, which has existed since 1996, into the transparency register. i find it regrettable that everyone has to register everything in order to obtain a one-year residence permit - public institutions and public bodies, among others. i still understand that a bar association must be registered, but i understand less that a public body, which is not allowed to be politically active from the outset and will not be politically active, must also be registered. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. because, after all, we are also contacted through many other channels of communication.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the 25 years since the chernobyl nuclear accident, the commission has played a major role in the worldwide efforts to alleviate the consequences of the tragedy. the scale of the task required a joint effort. the commission has therefore cooperated with partners from the member states, the g7 and ukraine itself to ensure that the site can be properly stabilised and secured in an environmentally sound manner. the eu has been active in mobilising additional funds from the international community to complete the remaining work at the chernobyl site, and we are also making progress in contributing our own contribution. the commission is the largest donor to the chernobyl fund and we pledged 110 million from our budget at the donor conference in kiev in april, which brought together another 550 million. we have been diplomatic and we have also achieved this by the fact that 32 countries, 13 of which are active for the first time, have put forward new commitments to the fund. we will continue our activities with other donors, including the european bank for reconstruction and development, to secure the financial resources needed to complete all projects by 2015. we are also working with the ukrainian government to ensure that the plan to clad the chernobyl reactor core can be fully implemented. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the nuclear power stations in the community are equipped with the necessary safety equipment. all work is expected to be completed by 2015. the second concerns research projects under the euratom framework programme on the consequences of the accident and how to deal with them. low-dose research is currently the subject of a large-scale joint programming initiative of the european melodi platform. we are considering, within the framework of the nuclear safety cooperation instrument, a project for the benefit of the most affected population in the area around the chernobyl exclusion zone. we want to go into the relationship between health and nutrition in depth. if targeted activities to assess the health consequences for people in all areas affected by the chernobyl disaster prove useful, the commission is prepared to take action and to entrust the eu health and safety committee with the coordination of such activities. the commission's other responsibilities include tackling environmental pollution. following the accident, we had contributed to joint research projects with the commonwealth of independent states to support the collection of comprehensive data and the design of disaster management strategies in the nuclear sector and in the affected areas in belarus, russia and ukraine. we have collected data on the release of radioactive caesium throughout the eu after the accident. these were published in 1998 in the form of an atlas in cooperation with ukraine, russia and belarus. we are currently supporting a radio ecology excellence network under the 7th euratom framework programme to fund integration, networking and scientific excellence in the interest of radiation protection for people and the environment. as regards civil protection, we have been promoting cooperation between member states in civil protection exercises for nine years, and third country nationals are also taking part in these exercises. three exercises co-financed by our civil protection financial instrument had a radiological component: torch, which dealt with a mass casualty incident and its simulation, cremex, which dealt with a mass contamination incident in the form of a dirty bomb, and sismicaex, which dealt with a nuclear accident caused by an earthquake a year ago. we will continue to do everything in the years ahead to ensure that, with european solidarity, we can achieve the reduction of damage and the prevention of further damage at chernobyl.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very grateful to the commission for once having given such a detailed account - and it is good to have such opportunities - of what europe has done in this area since the disaster, both immediately and in the medium and long term, up to the present day. whatever the assessment of the problem this is the one it is appropriate to point out that these measures of this magnitude of damage reduction would not have taken place without the european union. i also find it very helpful to point out that the commission has not only provided direct, direct aid but has also, as europe, been very concerned about the implications of this, including civil protection measures and more, about information exchange systems, about research and studies. in this respect i am not sure - and this is certainly what the differentiated debate would have to be - whether it is absolutely necessary to go to market with new studies or whether it is not rather necessary to evaluate the existing material thoroughly and to consider whether it is sufficient, whether it is what we need. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am very grateful and i think that the commission and europe can be very proud of what they have done in this case. they've proven that they're not just talking, they're helping.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should like to thank mr sonik for having initiated this debate and for having prepared the oral question. in fact, we must not forget the chernobyl disaster. we know that even a quarter of a century after this disaster, there are still long-term consequences. there is still a large area where people cannot live, where they cannot return to their homes. there are these long-term health effects. the tv also showed that even 25 years after the disaster, women still miscarry. europe has a responsibility because the question of nuclear safety is not a question of national sovereignty but a question of european responsibility. in this densely populated continent, each nuclear power plant also has an impact on its neighbours. that is why, commissioner oettinger, you have a special responsibility to ensure that we tackle this issue in a completely new way, even after the experience of fukushima. we will then talk to you about the stress tests, the safety analyses of the 143 nuclear power plants. i would ask you to stay strong. we want the highest possible standard of safety in europe and not just investigations for natural disasters. we also need to look at all the other risks -- plane crashes, terrorist attacks, computer attacks, so this combination of attacks on nuclear facilities -- now, and you need to be the guarantor that this is not going to be an alibi event. there's still a lot to do in chernobyl. the sarcophagus is not secure, so you need new means to fix it. i have not heard where the nuclear waste is going to be, nor is the disposal of it secured. i think, mr reul, that research studies are necessary because we have too little experience of the long-term effects of radioactive radiation. i would encourage the commission to take this forward. in the end, the safest option is to give up nuclear energy. in all our cooperation with these countries, i would also like us to set up workshops for the future and to offer advice on energy saving and the development of alternative energy sources. this is the order of the day, 25 years after chernobyl! (the president agreed to answer a question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for that question, mr president. the aim must be to establish european competence in the monitoring of nuclear power stations. if something has an impact beyond national borders, then it has a european dimension, and we need european competence for that too. commissioner oettinger, we do not yet have this competence, but you must work to give us the basis for independent and objective monitoring of nuclear installations from europe and for drawing consequences where weaknesses are found. if the stress test shows that a plant is not safe, it must be shut down or retrofitted if possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i am not going to go into the details. it is true that the european union has already done a great deal in and around chernobyl. the question is whether we have done enough, whether enough can be done, and whether we are always doing the right thing. i believe that we have some black holes to fill in the area of the health consequences of fallout. the dispute over the repeatedly falsified figures of the international atomic energy agency must be endured. i believe that the european union, which is affected by about half the fallout of the disaster on its territory, has its own interest in this matter. this is important. the international consequences which we as an international community have to bear are by no means confined to the territory of the former soviet union, belarus, ukraine and russia, but more than half of the fallout after the fire and explosion has been felt on the territory of the european continent. so deal with the demands for a new assessment of the health consequences! many former employees of the world health organization would like to see their work valued differently. then the cleanup on the spot. the big new shelter is being discussed all over the place. why haven't we had a risk analysis for sarcophagus i yet? why can't we understand the problem that's there? how can such a large-scale project be pursued without a transparent risk analysis? and how can we at the same time remain silent about the fact that we have not been able to remove and store the spent fuel from the properly shut down reactors ii and iii at chernobyl? i think that's a very big problem. thirdly, we have been close to nuclear meltdowns in the european union several times since chernobyl, even before fukushima. forsmark is a good example, paks is a good example, or the brunsbüttel nuclear power station in germany. the stress tests now proposed are not at all suitable for describing the risk inherent in existing european nuclear installations. i would ask you, mr oettinger, not to give us false information. they promised rigorous security testing. what has been on the table so far cannot be taken seriously at all!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not since the chernobyl disaster 25 years ago, 1.4 million people have died from the long-term effects of nuclear gaus, according to new research by the radiation protection society. even in germany we had to fear the radiation of our children because of the rain from radioactive clouds and contaminated food. the eu must now draw the right conclusions from the chernobyl and fukushima disasters. the fear that the stress tests announced for all nuclear power stations are only alibi tests for the continued operation of the nuclear mills has unfortunately been confirmed by the stress criteria announced. other nuclear plants are not inspected anyway. whether it is human error or plane crashes, everything that could cost the nuclear companies is not examined, even though it is essential for the safety of the population. we call for comprehensive and binding stress tests to be carried out by independent experts. however, this can only be the first step towards a europe-wide exit scenario.
the commission has already done so. chernobyl, like fukushima, has shown that any rules that can be made must measure the residual risk of human error and that in this respect we must of course be all the more clear about where the limits of nuclear energy lie, because even the best regulations cannot eliminate this residual risk of human error. the second point concerns the lack of information provided by the soviet system of that time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the soviet central model bears a great deal of responsibility for this misinformation. this energy, with the residual risk associated with it, can be sustained for a temporary period only if its use is accompanied by the necessary openness. thirdly, we must see that many people - including those in my constituency - are still helping to mitigate the consequences by inviting children and many other things. the effects of this are still being seen today, in generations that were not even thought of back then. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. finally, commissioner, i would like to give you some encouragement with regard to your stress tests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these stress tests must ensure that no information is given which cannot be verified. i would therefore encourage you not to go into the soft-washing of ministers in the council of ministers and to do much more here to set clear, clear, common, verifiable standards so that such stress tests can serve their purpose.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. (in the beginning, mr man without a microphone) ... 1986 and the super-gau of an outdated nuclear power plant. for weeks, we stayed indoors as much as possible and went out as little as possible, fearing the dangers of radiation. on 11 march this year, a nuclear emergency was declared at the fukushima nuclear power plant. even in high-tech japan, the promised security was not even remotely possible. responsible policy must avoid hasty solutions. sustainability includes mandatory, hard-hitting stress tests that examine the impact of natural disasters on nuclear power plants, but also of accidents, terrorist attacks and human error. my country is being accused of being afraid of the germans - and quite unjustly. we must take the concerns of the citizens seriously. whether it is different time limits, closure scenarios or qualified moratoriums, everything is on the table without false time pressure, without polemics, without ideology. the work of the german ethics commission can be an example for the european level. and nuclear workers need special protection. the committee on employment calls for the legal basis of the waste directive to be extended to the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this would also include those dealing with radioactive waste and spent fuel elements. the most stringent criteria for training and safety at work must be applied and thorough research must be carried out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this applies to the eu and also to our neighbouring countries, which must be convinced to take joint decisions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. chernobyl is still on our minds 25 years later. we will also have to deal with fukushima for a long time. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. this is leading to a rethinking of energy policy. it is also clear that national approaches are a dead end. we need international strategies, at least eu-wide strategies, when it comes to security. i therefore fully support the commissioner for energy, who has made important proposals in this direction! i call on all of us to come to a common set of principles so that the existing nuclear reactors are really safe, no power cuts are allowed, earthquake safety and other risks are better assessed. we should then also take this on the offensive in the international bodies.
member of the commission. − since the beginning of the libyan crisis, the european union has shouldered its responsibilities to alleviate the suffering of the civilian population by providing timely and significant humanitarian assistance. to date, the commission has allocated eur 50 million – eur 40 million from our humanitarian aid budget and eur 10 million from the civil protection budget line – while the 27 member states have collectively contributed eur 52 million, bringing the total amount of eu humanitarian assistance to eur 102 million. we are by far the leaders in addressing the needs of people in libya. our humanitarian funding supports activities implemented by partners, un agencies, the red cross and red crescent, and ngos. our activities address both pressing needs inside libya and the needs of people who have been fleeing libya. as of today, 740 000 muslim migrant workers have left the country in search of safety. inside libya, our activities include the evacuation by sea of about 2000 civilians from misrata, the provision of food, water, sanitation and medical supplies in misrata and other areas of libya, and provisional materials for food, as we expect the food situation to worsen in the next four to six weeks. in border areas outside libya, the commission is supporting the pre-positioning of emergency stocks. we are also supporting operations in tunisia, egypt and algeria for people who have left libya. the eu civil protection mechanism has been activated twice: firstly to support member states’ consular operations to evacuate our citizens – 5800 europeans have been evacuated –, and secondly to facilitate the return home of migrant workers stuck in tunisia and egypt. we have provided 157 flights from member states with support from the commission, and we have also funded the repatriation of third country nationals through the international organisation for migration. in total, over 56 000 people safely made it home. this, of course, also helps to reduce the risk of a wave of migrants into europe. despite the ongoing fighting and its spread to various parts of libya, humanitarian organisations are doing a remarkable job in preventing a major humanitarian disaster. at this point, our main concern remains that, in large parts of libya controlled by gaddafi, access for these humanitarian workers is limited. i want to assure you that the commission will continue its efforts to help people affected by this conflict.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you very much, commissioner, for your great work. i would like to emphasize that very much. and i just want to ask you a quick question: the un has called for a ceasefire today or yesterday so that the people can be provided with food. is humanitarian aid reaching most of the population of libya, and what percentage of the country or population do you estimate is unfortunately not reachable by those helping?
member of the commission. − we all agree with that, of course. that is also the reason why, through the benchmark system, we have ensured that the sectors most exposed to carbon leakage will get almost all of their allowances for free. but let me correct just one misunderstanding: i think we should be very careful in the european union and not believe that others are doing nothing. last week, i came back from korea. they are also introducing carbon trading now; they are finding out exactly how to do it. they will start it on 1 january 2015. china is carrying out huge pilot projects on carbon trading. they want to make it a national system in the very near future. they are also introducing environmental taxes, and so on and so forth. i could cite a lot of economies that we are competing with who have now realised that they also have to conduct ambitious environment policies, energy policies and climate policies. they have also realised that, if they do this intelligently, it will benefit their economies in the end.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading by toine manders, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on textile fibre names and related labelling and marking of the fibre composition of textile products and repealing council directive 73/44/eec, directive 96/73/ec of the european parliament and of the council and directive 2008/121/ec of the european parliament and of the council (13807/4/2010 - c7-0017/2011 - http://www.europarl.europa.eu/il/findproc.do?lang=en_proc_num_cod/2009/0006') (a7-0086/2011).
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i believe that this is more than a technical debate, it is a political debate, which is part of the context of choices made by the institutions of the european union, in this case parliament, the commission and the council, in favour of the real economy. the european commission and the commissioner for industry intend to continue to support industrial policy and small and mediumsized enterprises in order to give our fellow citizens answers also as regards the quality of the products manufactured in our enterprises. the competitiveness of the european system is also measured by the quality of products in terms of protecting the health of our fellow citizens. that is why the european commission is reiterating this evening, at the end of this debate, its desire to move forward with the implementation of made in. as i have already announced, and to reassure mr cancian and all the other members who have expressed concern about the long deadlines, i would like to reiterate that we will make sure that our presentation times are brought forward. i confirm that i have instructed my services to continue on the path they have taken because the european commission has always been in favour of made in, both for products manufactured in the european union and for imported products. the debate this evening was certainly not fruitless, because mr győri made it clear that the council attaches great importance to the clause we are discussing, which is the key to today's political debate, that it is ready to reach an agreement not of the backward but of the forward with the commission and parliament in order to give concrete answers to the citizens. i am convinced that the issue of traceability concerns the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and as my priority commitment since the beginning of my appointment as european commissioner has been the policy in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, continuing the work of the previous commissioner so i intend to continue to defend the health of consumers through quality products that will be the only competitive ones on the international market, because the competitiveness of european union products is measured on quality. that is why i think it is important to continue to work in this direction. i am satisfied with the agreement reached between the co-legislators. as you know, it is parliament and the council that have to give a second reading, but the european commission intends to take the political initiative again, to revive it. in other words, the commissioner for industry intends to start working immediately to ensure that our products are protected for the competitiveness of businesses and for the health of citizens. before concluding, i would like to remind you of our commitment to supporting innovation in the textile and clothing sector. the adaptation of legislation is one of the means of defending our competitiveness, but other initiatives are also under way in the field of industrial policy. i will just point to two. we are developing measures to support the transfer of research results and their transformation into tangible and marketable products and services. we are also preparing a communication on the fundamental aspects of the competitiveness of the fashion industry. all this is to highlight the need to protect european enterprises and the fact that there can be no growth and development and, above all, no employment in a context of a social and market economy, where the market - which is also a fundamental instrument of our european union - does not pursue a higher and more important objective, namely that of social policy.
the president of the council. − let me respond briefly to the question of the indication of the country of origin, which was the most exciting part of the debate and which, i must say, was the subject of a lively debate, not only in the consultation with parliament, but also in the council, and we dealt with it at length. as the discussions on the horizontal proposal on the country of origin in the field of trade policy were not yet concluded, we did not consider it appropriate to create a precedent which would have jeopardised that proposal or prejudged the outcome of the debate there. we have also considered the possibility of setting up a voluntary system to indicate the place of production. this possibility is already open to economic operators in practice. however, if this voluntary system were to be laid down in a regulation, it would lead to undue burdens and distortions without a precise enforcement mechanism, which we wanted to avoid at all costs. i am sure that the commission's report will assess the effects of a possible designation of origin system so that legislators can make an informed decision in the future. the commission shall: i must express my gratitude to commissioner tajani for his willingness to accelerate the work of the commission in order to find a solution to this important dossier. so, finally, the solution was feasible: we included a review clause in the text and we also set out a preamble to the subject, and i am very pleased that mrs comi, who was the most important representative today and a leading campaigner on this subject, said that this solution was acceptable, a good solution and would lay the foundations for future joint work. so i would like to thank you again for this useful debate, it is good that we have a timetable for the future and it is very important for us - some of you have spoken about this here - to be able to act as effectively as possible against counterfeiting and for european consumers to have confidence in the traceability of textile products. on behalf of the presidency, i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, the rapporteur-designate, the chairman of the imco committee and his colleagues once again for their joint work in bringing about an agreement on this legislation at second reading, which will make the internal market for textiles work even better.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 may 2011, at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the debate will then be on the following points: the request for an oral answer to the commission on the 2011 eu banking stress test by corien wortmann-kool, jean-paul gauzès, josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil on behalf of the ppe group (o-000063/2011 b7-0216/2011), the request for an oral answer to the commission on the 2011 eu banking stress test by sharon bowles, sylvie goulard, dirk sterckx, carl haglund, olle schmidt on behalf of the alde group (o-000074/2011 (b7-0219/2011) and the request for an oral answer to the commission on the 2011 eu banking stress test by udo bullmann on behalf of the s&d group (o-00005/2011 (b7-030/2011).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner barnier, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the question of stress tests on banks is so crucial and is being watched so critically by citizens because the banks are at the heart of this crisis. they have invested large sums of money without looking at the risks, and have thus triggered housing bubbles in some of the member states which are now at the heart of this crisis. what was always thought impossible, namely that the markets know worse than many outside observers, has happened, the markets have now been deeply mistaken. it is clear that the banks which caused the crisis were not able to make the right decisions during the crisis. now you also see that in the recession, the government debt has increased massively, first because of the cost of bank bailouts and guarantees, but even more because of the cost of the recession. the central question now is therefore: will there be any serious consequences of this banking crisis? but it is not just that the banks have been responsible in the past, but also that the markets are still not functioning properly. the accounts of the european system of central banks and of the target2 payment system have now accumulated eur 427 billion in open inter-central bank claims, as the inter-central bank system has taken over the non-functioning markets. the weakness of the banking system makes us hesitant to take the urgently needed debt restructuring measures in the weaker countries. in short, the people of greece, ireland and portugal feel that they are suffering partly because our banking system is weak. the european stress tests were then carried out over the last two years. they thought we'd finally get to know the truth. 2010 it has been said several times the stress tests were weak, especially for state risks, and basically these risks were almost not taken into account. those bank stress tests were recreational stress! now in 2011, we have a similar picture. in your remarks - thank you very much, mr barnier - you did not address the question of why the risks of government bonds are taken into account in the commercial book but not in the banking book. the reason is always the same: we would have the life-saving devices. that is a bold anticipation of a political decision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is practically the same as the announced socialization of private risks, which is taken for granted, if these life-saving measures are used as a reason for not pricing the risks properly. in addition, a proper stress test for the insurance market is still lacking. i would ask you, mr barnier, to look into this area as well. i am also disappointed that the european banking authority, which we have created and which is responsible, has now unfortunately failed its own stress test. mr barnier, do not be misled, follow this matter with more pressure. you see throughout the history of a bertolt brecht once said that founding a bank is much worse than robbing a bank. but he was wrong. we have to learn now that dragging their bankruptcy is much worse.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu stress test for banks, which took place last summer, needs to be greatly improved, commissioner barnier. it is not enough to focus on the equity base alone. the impact of the crisis on the liquidity of banks must also be examined. let's remember, back then, banks like lehman brothers went bankrupt because they were struggling with significant liquidity problems. i am not at all familiar with the debate on whether or not the results of the liquidity review should be published. if you choose to withhold data, you're taking away the meaning of the test. the intention is clear: to prevent the markets from robbing those banks that have failed of their confidence. if you want to leave the public in the dark about the outcome of the tests, you are creating uncertainty. in such a climate, rumors and half-truths flourish most splendidly. although there will be criticism of the new methodology and of various parameters, the common objective must be clear. transparency is needed to identify the respective crisis vulnerability of european banks. it is essential that broad confidence is built and that banks contribute to it in their own interest.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank each and every one of you who have spoken at this late hour, for demonstrating the vigilance, i would even say the intelligence of the european parliament, on this difficult issue. first of all, to immediately echo the question asked just now by mrs gáll pelcz, who referred to the commission's responsibility - i am used to taking on my responsibilities - i would like to recall that these stress tests are now being carried out within the framework of a definition and under the responsibility of the new authority that we have created together, the european banking authority. we are naturally working in good faith with the authority and we have, like the european central bank, worked with the eba on the re-preparation of this wave of tests, but the eba has the main responsibility for this. mr zemke asked a rather general question about future threats and risks. firstly, i believe that there is no such thing as zero risk, either in this field or in the field of ecology. i think it is very difficult to predict the future and we know, mr zemke, that the markets are infinitely faster than the time of democracy, than our own time, however fast and anxious we may be to go fast and well. how can we be less destitute than we were four years ago in the face of this crisis coming from the united states which has almost wiped everything out? we can do this by creating tools, frameworks for governance, supervision, accountability, transparency, everything that was missing, everything that had been in the very great wind of ultraliberalism that swept the world from the 1990s onwards, everything that was also partly dismantled, with this insane idea that markets could regulate themselves. patiently, within the framework of the g20, and perhaps going, in some areas, further than the g20 has asked, we are recreating the frameworks, the tools of governance, regulation, transparency, i was going to say simply of morality - if i may use that word - or ethics, which have been singularly lacking in the financial markets landscape for the last fifteen years or so. that's why the measure you took in this situation is important. that is why the role you have played in creating real european supervisory authorities - ms goulard mentioned the european systemic risk board - is very important. that is why, as i said to jean-paul gauzès, who was talking about the rating agencies, we are recording this action, the special point of this evening's sitting, all that we are patiently doing week after week, in the great work of european financial and economic governance, and we are not done with our efforts. in this great building project i have no difficulty in using the word federation, i believe it was mr giegold who used that word earlier. we need to pool our energies, our policies, to go beyond simple coordination. i would like to say that i agree with jean-paul gauzès on the importance of continuing the reforms in the field of credit rating agencies. we are working on a third reform, so it will be a reform that will carry the number 3 in relation to the previous two, and on the issue you mentioned, mr gauzès, of excessive dependence on ratings, we will remove a number of them, it will not be long at the beginning of july, we will remove several rating references to avoid this excessive dependence of banks on ratings, and not only banks. so we're going to work on that. sylvie goulard referred to the remarks of mr king, mr enria, and i had noted them. i am very happy to thank her for drawing my attention to these remarks, which also show that the voluntary spirit is changing. i would also like to thank you for mentioning the very important role - and we know what we owe you, mrs goulard - of the committee on systemic risk. we have to work with all these actors and the eba, and of course taking into account the role of the systemic risk committee for the good consistency of the application and the good lessons to be learned from the stress tests. finally, it will not be the eba's task but rather that of the member states to draw lessons by putting in place the conditions, the backstop tools, which we will be very attentive to for the period immediately following the stress tests. i said at the time of the creation of the three european supervisory authorities, the systemic risk committee, that we would prove the movement by walking. that's what's happening. i think under mr. enria's leadership, the eba is doing a good job; the other authorities and the systemic risk committee, mr giegold, of eiopa, are also concerned. you mentioned earlier that there are tests in the insurance sector. eiopa is preparing a series of tests in this sector, as the eba has done for banks. you have mentioned, mr giegold, a sensitive and very important issue, as did mr karas earlier, or mr olle schmidt, which is the sovereign debt shock. as i said before, and i'm not going to give another answer tonight, the eba has been tasked with defining, designing the tests. she felt that a shock to the banking book was unrealistic; there was no point in testing at this stage on this point. i can't say anything else except that we have this dialogue with the eba, we are determined mr giegold has learned all the lessons of this new wave of tests, just as we learned the lessons of the previous wave which was insufficient, and we have the ambition, mr sánchez presedo asked me to be ambitious, we have the ambition to carry this dialogue forward in a demanding, rigorous way, respecting the competences and independence of the eba, just as we ask that our own independence be respected from the commission. my ambition, mr giegold, is to take the lessons of this wave of tests, which will be completed in june, very seriously and to draw all the lessons from the dialogue we have with the eba to improve the next wave. mr mann, like mr giegold yourself, you have referred to the liquidity risk assessment. the assessment of this liquidity risk is not, as you know, part of the stress test itself, the results of which will be published. at the beginning of the year, the european banking authority announced that it would conduct a separate thematic review of liquidity risks in the union-wide banking sector as part of its regular risk assessment cycle in the first half of 2011. so it will deal with this question in this, if i may say, parallel context. othmar karas has called on his colleagues and the commission to put everything we do into the framework of longterm strategies, and i want to tell mr karas that this is a general principle that i subscribe to, and it is the spirit in which i am working with my teams to propose to you all the new legislation that is part of this financial and economic governance that we need. this will be the case in the governance area, in what we are going to do about shareholder responsibility - we are working well on the long term - and in what we want to do, as i said to mrs ferreira earlier, on the banking resolution. it will also be the case for another point that i have in mind, even if you have not mentioned it, which is one of the reasons or one of the origins of the crisis, that of the absurd salaries and bonuses which were all the higher the more risks were taken, knowing that the risks would be paid for by others. when we assess the application of the current framework on bonuses and remuneration, when we measure its shortcomings, i will clearly check - as many have requested - the transposition and implementation in each of the member states in the coming weeks. when i say that i am considering a new framework on this issue, it is precisely to deal with one of the sources of the crisis - with these senseless risk-taking - and to bring back more sobriety and responsibility from the actors in the banking sector. mrs ferreira stressed, as did mr lamberts, the lack of consistency in the stress tests. i told you what i thought about the inadequacy of the previous tests. we need more consistency, we need more europe in the application of these tests, and that is why, with the eba, peer review will also be very useful. on the question of a harmonized framework for the resolution, which is exactly what we are working on, mrs ferreira, i can assure you that we will present our proposal before the end of the summer, based very sincerely and concretely on many of the proposals you have made. several of you, mr ludvigsson, mrs ford, mr cancian, mrs băsescu, have just called for tests - i quote what i have heard - which are rigorous, credible and transparent. again, in the overall framework of this financial and economic governance that we are building together, the 2011 tests will be more severe, more credible, more transparent than the previous wave, and we will build on the lessons and the evaluation of this 2011 wave to further improve, as you wished, to make even more severe, even more credible, even more transparent, the next steps in the stress tests of the banking sector.
i thank you very much, commissioner barnier. we've already bought ourselves a slight delay. it is a great honor to have you answer every speaker. but perhaps, for educational reasons too, we should keep it in the future that the commissioner's final statement should only deal with those speakers who are still present. it would save us some time. the last debate has brought us to the edge of what is possible. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the enforcement of legislation on the shipment of toxic waste to developing countries, by catherine bearder, lena ek, miroslav ouzký, richard seeber, christa klaß, rebecca harms, on behalf of the alde group, the ecr group, the ppe group and the verts/ale group (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getdoc.do?type=oq&reference=o-2011-000065&language=de" - b7-0217/2011) and the oral question to the commission on the enforcement of legislation on the shipment of toxic waste to developing countries, by sabine wils, tamara kartika, liotara bairro, bruns de brún, joão ferreira, joão ferreira, nicolaas gonzalez, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getdoc.do?type=oq&reference=o-2011-000065&language=de" - b7-0217/2011).
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. illegal waste shipments and the illegal disposal of hazardous waste pose a growing threat to the health and environment of millions of people in developing countries. the amount of toxic waste in the eu is constantly increasing. the high cost of waste recycling and disposal has led to a temptation to dump this waste in countries with lower environmental standards and lower disposal costs. i am glad that this problem is being recognised across the political groups and i hope that parliament will act together on this issue. the legal loopholes that allow these toxic exports must be closed. the existing regulations on the shipment of toxic waste to developing countries must be strengthened and enforced. we need a bill on environmental inspections, which parliament called for in 2008, so that ships in ports can be effectively controlled by local authorities. this must include the possibility of detention in ports of eu-wide vessels on reasonable suspicion. we are proposing that this be confirmed in a joint resolution by all the groups. the eu also needs to improve its control of waste shipments. off the coast of calabria, a few miles from the port of cetraro, lies a sunken ship known for transporting highly toxic waste. many more toxic waste ships are suspected to have sunk in the tyrrhenian sea off the coast. this example also illustrates the need for transparency in waste shipments and reliable official inspections.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my first words will be to express the regret of my colleague and friend potočnik, who is in new york this evening to sign an important agreement, the nagoya agreement, on biodiversity. nevertheless, i am glad that i have the opportunity to replace him, or to try to replace him, because the subject you are referring to is one which has always interested me, ladies and gentlemen. i was minister for the environment in my own country and i have not forgotten the efforts we made, in my first term as commissioner some ten years ago, to begin to deal with this extremely serious issue with parliament. the waste shipment regulation prohibits exports of hazardous waste to developing countries in the same way as exports of waste for disposal outside the eu and efta countries. however, we know - and you have mentioned this - that the efforts made to control the application of this ban vary greatly from one state to another. operators often seek to take advantage of the lack of inspections to circumvent the ban and transit waste through other member states where the inspection requirements - you mentioned it - are less stringent. in addition, waste is often exported under the guise of being misrepresented as second-hand goods, which complicates the task of the authorities responsible for monitoring and enforcing the rules. and then the obviously lower cost of processing in third countries is the main economic factor that encourages or favours these illicit exports. and there is the very serious situation of the countries which receive, if i may say so, this waste, this illicit transfer which is causing a great deal of pollution of the air, water, soil, homes, and which threatens - you said it just now, mrs wils, and before you, mrs bearder, or mrs rosbach, said it with the same emotion - the health of the people and especially of the children, which is the most scandalous, and of the workers and of a large part of the population. the already toxic nature of the hazardous substances contained in the waste often represents an increased risk, in addition, when there are inadequate techniques for waste management, which is often the case in these countries of destination. in addition, illegal shipments of waste to third countries obviously have a negative effect on trade and competition, since economically, compliant companies are obviously competing and disadvantaged. the european recycling and waste management sector, which is obliged to respect the strict environmental legislation of our union, is a dynamic sector. it has a turnover of 95 billion euros. it provides or supports 1.2 to 1.5 million jobs and represents 1% of gdp, and it is this sector of waste management, recycling, which is working properly, that is also competing or disadvantaged by this traffic. effective enforcement of the waste transfer regulation at eu level would, i believe, encourage the sector to invest and create more jobs in the future. illicit waste transfer, poor quality recycling, also lead to a loss of resources since secondary raw materials can greatly contribute to meeting europe's raw material needs, and also improve resource efficiency and use. the situation must therefore be improved on the basis of this diagnosis. the commission therefore sought to know whether additional legislative measures should be taken at union level and, if so, what new specific requirements and criteria would be defined for inspections on shipments of waste. we are currently finalising an impact analysis of the different possible approaches to solving the problem i have just mentioned, including national inspection plans and programmes, mandatory national risk assessment, and more targeted training of national officials responsible for inspections of provisions and, conversely, the burden of proof for those who fraudulently declare waste as second-hand goods. in reply to a few specific questions, i should like to conclude, mr president, by referring to the following points. first, it is possible to circumvent the waste shipment regulation by claiming that the items exported are second-hand goods rather than waste. the main problem is that member states do not implement the inspection requirements properly. to remedy this, this regulation needs to be supplemented by more detailed rules on national inspections. the legislative measures should be accompanied by adequate training of the officials responsible for monitoring the application of the rules, as i have said. second point. non-legally binding guidelines at union level could support and facilitate the implementation and enforcement of the waste shipment regulation, including by customs, and thus contribute to the fight against illegal activities. however, simple guidelines will not suffice. we also need binding rules to combat this problem. third point. waste generation has increased or stabilized in recent years. waste management is improving across the union, recycling has increased over the last five years. however, what is currently remarkable is the wide disparities between member states in the implementation of our waste requirements. the commission, ladies and gentlemen, is aware of the environmental, economic, social, human and public health consequences of illicit waste shipments, and the case of the probo koala, in which several people died as a result of exposure to hazardous waste dumped illegally in côte d'ivoire, is one of the worst examples we have in our memory, and there are lessons to be learned here too. the commission has launched a number of studies on this issue and the results of these investigations can be found on our website. as soon as illegal shipments of waste are detected, the regulation provides for measures to remedy the situation. the waste must be returned to the country of origin in accordance with union and international law. if the companies responsible cannot be found, the country of origin in the union must pay an invoice for the repatriation and treatment of the waste. in some cases, member states have had to bear costs exceeding eur 1 million. in the probo koala case i have just mentioned, trafigura had to pay the equivalent of eur 152 million in cleaning costs and compensation of eur 33 million to the residents of the affected localities. finally, i would like to say to mr seeber that i understand that mr potočnik has undertaken to make this communication on the implementation and application of community law and is preparing it.
member of the commission. - mr president, mrs mcguinness has just said something important, namely that this issue has a moral and ethical dimension, given all the concerns we have raised about public health, biodiversity and the economy. that is why i say to mrs westlund, mrs roithova and other speakers that the commission is determined to act. in support of the impact assessment, which will demonstrate the merits of this initiative, the commission will propose to strengthen eu legislation, in particular to improve inspections and enforcement of the waste shipments regulation, which should reduce the considerable number of such illegal shipments very significantly. all solutions are being considered. give mr. potočnik the few weeks he needs to prepare this legislation. i can say on behalf of the commission that before the end of this year, in the light of the very important debate which you have had, the commission will present, despite the late hour, its legislative proposals to improve the fight against this illicit transport and all its consequences.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not in a european union where we are seeing developments in all areas leading to renationalisation, the treaty of lisbon should be an instrument for creating a new community policy: the common foreign, security and defence policy. if we look back at the first major general debate we had with the high representative, we can see that there were certain governments who did not want the title of 'minister for foreign affairs of the european union', which eventually led to the name 'high representative' or 'high representative'. this is understandable, because, alongside fiscal policy and domestic policy, sovereign foreign policy is one of the key features - a sort of identity feature - of national sovereignty. and to transfer this sovereignty to a supranational institution is a courageous and difficult thing to do, particularly in the field of foreign, security and defence policy. but we have to ask ourselves a very different question in the european parliament, together with the high representative: what is the role of this union as an institution in its own right in international politics? i have been reading articles in recent days about the high representative, and i am amazed that in these articles mrs ashton is criticised for the high representative's absence and her policies. the criticism is inspired by people who have nothing else in mind but their own national foreign policy, putting their own national interests first and making decisions unilaterally without consulting any partner, which in the end will divide europe rather than unite it. let's look at the libya engagement. there has rarely been a more visible division of the european union in its international policy, in its international engagement, than on the question: how do we actually behave towards libya? the european union's major capitals in particular have a tendency to regard the eu's foreign, security and defence policy as a continuation of their own national policies with european funds. the larger the foreign office, the foreign office and the quai d'orsay, the more pronounced this awareness! mrs ashton, you will certainly find the widest support in this parliament if you say to these people: with all due respect for your unilateral interest, this cannot be the direction of a common european foreign policy defined in its areas of consensus by me, the high representative. yes, i am in favour of opening an office in libya, as you have described it, because you as the high representative and the union itself - we as an independent body - certainly have a humanitarian and political credibility, a higher credibility than the states which are forced to take military action in libya, but which were represented at the biggest arms fair in libya with the biggest stands of arms exporters last autumn. germany, france, great britain, italy and belgium are the main suppliers of arms to mr gaddafi's army, which is fighting the rebels there. that is not the credibility that europe needs. (applause from the centre) the credibility that europe needs is that of soft power, which helps to build democracy, which opens an office to support civil society developments, which does not define the international cooperation of the european union as the subjugation of others to the diplomatic, economic interests of a unilateral kind, but which pursues a policy of partnership between world regions on an equal footing. that is the vision of the european union's foreign, security and defence policy. you said three ms money, mobility, market access! you should add three c's in the next phase coherence, concreteness and community method! i think that the three m's and the three c's will help you to find your partners in the european parliament. we in the socialist group know that we are at the beginning of cooperation between you and parliament, and there are certainly still things to improve. i therefore repeat my offer - i believe i am speaking on behalf of most of my colleagues - that you will find far more partners in this house for your vision of a common foreign and security policy than in the assembly of 27 foreign ministers, all of whom i respect, but who all have a problem: they are the foreign ministers of a single country. (the president cut the speaker off) you're the diplomatic representative of an entire continent! (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. let us be honest, there are some areas where the eu's foreign policy has failed: in the arab world, in afghanistan, in resolving the palestinian problem and in the conflicts in our eastern neighbourhood. what's the reason? that is the question i would like to ask. how do we arrive at a common line in the eu, in the cfsp, with 27 times more national decision-making power? foreign policy is a matter of interests, of course. the time has long passed, however, when the west could simply assert its interests without regard for partner countries and their populations. the eu must be open to a policy of balancing interests. not least, double standards and thinking in military terms have contributed to the failure. this house almost cheered when the un security council decided to intervene militarily in libya. today we are all - i say, we are all - a little perplexed by the developments there. what are we doing for the civilian population in gaza or in darfur? how do we protect the right to a decent life for the 1.4 billion people who live on a dollar a day? this is a matter of particular concern to my group. the revolutions in the arab countries have one important demand in common: justice, justice in the distribution of wealth within societies and in democratic participation in political decisions, including in international relations. the eu must meet this challenge. the achievement of this task requires the joint development of international law, not its unilateral interpretation and enforcement.
i have to say, madam president, baroness ashton, we are still a long way from a common foreign policy worthy of the name. you are criticized for this, but sometimes it seems to me that you are the scapegoat for a situation which is beyond your control and which is simply due to the fact that our member states do not have the political will to really agree on a common line. take libya for example. first italy blocks the sanctions, then france recognizes the transitional council in benghazi without any consultation and finally germany abstains in the security council vote on the resolution. there is nothing you can do about it, but the picture of europe is negative. we would of course have needed tougher sanctions on syria, but unanimity is also needed. there are some member states - greece, italy and spain are mentioned in the press, and perhaps germany is among them - who are against it, and you have to stand here and say: 'we could only put 13 on the list.' unanimity paralyses this no longer works with 27 member states. we must make the next quantum leap in the common foreign and security policy. i must say this to mr tannock and his tory friends in this clear and unequivocal way. what can you do? the european community must be able to take action to combat racism and xenophobia, and to make the european union more effective. i was surprised to hear you speak so clearly about the european endowment for democracy. we are preparing a report on this subject with mrs de keyser as rapporteur and we are looking at what the preconditions are. we want to make it clear that we do not want a second ehrw: bureaucratic, slow, cumbersome and apolitical. we want something that is unbureaucratic, fast, simple and political. if you can do that, you have our full support!
madam president, i should like to make this point to the vice-president of the commission/high representative: europe’s foreign policy currently lacks leadership, boldness and community method, and this at a time when the union has more foreign policy instruments at its disposal than ever. you, as you often say yourself, are in listening mode: listening to national governments and waiting until they have pronounced themselves. then you present the lowest common denominator, and often at times when events have already moved on on syria, for example, what are you convinced of? should assad be included or not? what is your opinion? we would like to hear that. do you want to threaten sanctions or not? you ask us, you did that in your reply, to put pressure on governments, so tell us which ones. open the debate. sure, member states often lack the political will to act in a unified and decisive way, and they do not want to see you strong, but believe me, baroness ashton, they will not support you and will not save your life as high representative. they are not a guarantee for you to stay in your job, i promise you. and also this does not change the fact that the lisbon treaty envisaged a stronger role for you. you are the rotating presidency. you are vice-president of the commission. you can take initiatives. you should set the agenda. you should set out in front your opinions, your decisions, and then let member states react. if you do not take initiatives, at least do not kill those of others. for example, the review of the göteborg programme on conflict prevention: ten years ago it was initiated by anna lindh. the hungarian presidency started a review and wanted you to take it over, but you stopped it. i do not understand why. i can only recommend you dare more, delegate more. follow margaret mead, whom you cited. be the agent of change that we need. i promise you: only this will save your position, and nothing else.
i have to say, madam president, mr president, i share your view. the unification of hamas and fatah is indeed a historic step. the process of reconciliation between palestinians and israelis may now be able to make progress. mrs ashton has made it very clear that this second flotilla is a completely unnecessary provocation which could damage this process. would you and your group refrain from supporting this flotilla, as was done here in parliament yesterday with the considerable participation of the gue?
madam president, mrs ashton, i have to speak to you. the very good report by mr gualtieri on the common security and defence policy contains an important assessment. i would like to mention four priorities which we should pursue in the next year in the area of security and defence policy. firstly, we must evaluate joint missions realistically and, above all, we must carry out an external evaluation and integrate them into regional policy concepts. this is particularly true in the horn of africa. secondly, we need to make progress in the pooling and sharing of military capabilities and we need to ensure that the franco-british special route is integrated back into a european community. the european defence agency has ideas to put forward. bring these ideas to the table, make sure there's a public discussion, make sure there's progress! thirdly, we need a public debate on a new european security strategy. mr solana's paper from 2003 was a good paper at the time. but the world has moved on. we need this public debate. fourthly, we must urgently reach an agreement with the parliaments of the member states on joint parliamentary control of the common security and defence policy. if we succeed - you, mrs ashton, and this parliament - in advancing the csdp on these four points, we could be very satisfied in a year's time.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. lady ashton, we will assist you in further building the foreign service and restoring its functioning. this is particularly true of the equipment of the representations, which still needs to be improved considerably, given the resources available and the short time available. it is also a big problem that these days every european foreign minister has to walk around tahrir square with his national flag. but these patterns of behaviour must not prevent us from being visible with a common strategy. it is our task, and yours too, to achieve this, because the positions summarised in the treaty of lisbon and which you represent - in reality, these are the three positions - must also be used, not to find the lowest common denominator among the member states and then implement it, but to take political leadership so that the common position becomes more important and convincing enough to take the other countries with it. this is of enormous importance if we are to make real progress here. you agreed earlier with mr gualtieri - i thank him, mrs muñiz de urquiza and mr albertini - on pooling and sharing. but it has to be a triad: leading, pooling and sharing -- those are the three things we need. there are a number of individual points which we can formulate here as questions and which require division of labour. what is the situation in ukraine? will there be a war between azerbaijan and armenia after the summer, as some are suggesting? the major issues of the arab world, of course, which many colleagues have raised here. how do we react to developments such as the flotilla, which i consider to be a provocation? how do we go against assad and at the same time make sure that the people's mujahideen in iran are not supported - i am against their support - but are still guaranteed that camp ashraf will not be attacked again and people will not be murdered there? here too, we must find reasonable ways of developing a common position. we'll help you build the foreign service. but we also expect the leadership that will enable us to operate from a higher political position and to be persuasive to the member states, despite the complicated condition that we need unanimity. you can only do that with convincing leadership. we are still waiting for the results of the development of the foreign service.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in view of the regrettable divergence of approaches by individual governments to the current challenges, i share the view of colleagues, but also your own call, baroness ashton, that we should extend the debate to national governments, and specifically by asking: what national advantage do you, government a or government b, expect from your unilateral pushing or blocking of a decision? what advantage should be valued more highly than the effect that we would achieve by the union acting together? i think that would put some governments under pressure to explain. but i am confident that we are in the process of learning painfully from our mistakes. the financial and debt crisis has also had a partly salutary effect on greater unity, particularly in the csdp. pooling and sharing have been mentioned. on 8 april, 300 projects from member states were presented by the eu military staff. my question is, how do you deal with it now? is there any thought of starting permanent structured cooperation with this initiative, which has not been activated so far? will you put the defence agency and the eu military staff at the heart of the implementation of this initiative? mr bütikofer has identified four priorities for the coming year, which i largely agree with. the ep has already called on several occasions for the preparation of a white paper on security and defence policy. what do you think? are you prepared to merge the existing working units of your department which deal with these issues into a unit which could be described as operational headquarters?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that this report attempts to solve two main problems. firstly, innovation should be encouraged. this means that the process of adding new fibre names to the single list of names should be more transparent and, above all, less bureaucratic. secondly, the improvement of the designation of origin. it is a matter of fact that the commission has not yet been able to reach a final and satisfactory conclusion on this point. this is not the fault of the rapporteur - i would like to emphasize this very clearly - but simply because of the extremely different opinions which existed in the european council and which the commission was unable to bring together. i would like to express my hope that we will continue to work on this point, because the designation of origin is becoming increasingly important. that's a consumer right. i hope that we will soon have a further discussion on this point in the european parliament and that the commission will make a proposal to that effect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. radio frequencies are a very scarce and valuable resource in our modern society. efficient and coordinated use of spectrum across europe is therefore desirable. broad access to radio frequencies is important not only for businesses but also for the citizens of the european union. we must therefore be particularly careful to develop these policies in line with economic, social and cultural interests. in particular, this regulation must not jeopardise the wireless live broadcasts which take place in germany, for example, particularly at regional theatrical events, rock concerts, but also in churches. i therefore also ask that the commission should work with the member states and cooperate closely in this area as well, and not interfere with national competences.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the forests are our future, they are our cultural landscape. they are cared for and maintained to provide services for people and the environment, namely as producers of oxygen, as storage for co2 and as homes for plants and animals. for these silent functions of the forest, which many take for granted, those who tend the forest receive little or no pay. so it's even more important to look at the economic side of our forests. this is the wood industry, and today, increasingly, biomass, which is used not only for heat, but also for electricity. the economic factor of the forest must be strengthened and exploited in the future, both at national and individual level. in this broad sense, we expect a commission white paper which puts this in a special focus, so that our forests have a future and so that we are all prepared to invest in that future. because when i plant a grain, i think about today, but when i plant a tree, i think about the future.
in writing. − forests and forestry already make an important contribution to the production of indigenous raw materials, provide a recreational space for many european citizens and are important for climate protection. there is hardly any other sector in which the ecological, economic and social functions are so closely intertwined. but forests face major challenges. one of the most important of these is climate change. it is the responsibility of the member states, with the support of the european commission, to develop and protect the forest for future generations, so that it can continue to contribute to our environment, society and economy. this includes sustaining and increasing the contribution of forests to climate protection, but also securing the economic basis of forestry and timber production, so that a sufficient supply of timber is guaranteed in the future.
in writing. - i voted against §36 (split 2) and against §37 because spatial planning issues are regional/national tasks and thus the regional/national parliaments have to decide here. any intervention at eu level would be an intervention in subsidiarity and would go too far.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gualtieri report for a number of reasons. the rapporteur has worked very well with my group. many of our amendments have been accepted in compromise texts. the report therefore incorporates 21 of the 29 amendments tabled by the greens/efa. the report also contains many of the positions we support and call for. i am very critical of the call for the inclusion of defence research in the joint strategic framework programme for innovation and research. the proposal to use so-called battle groups in the event of natural disasters is inappropriate. the extensive mention of the us department of homeland security as an example of appropriate counter-terrorism policy is irritating at best. the very open and realistic assessment of individual csdp missions, statements on women and security, disarmament, the human rights clause in counter-terrorism measures and the clear reference to the non-mixing of civilian and military approaches are very positive. the rapporteur also stressed the need to ensure that the csdp does not have absolute strategic autonomy as its final objective.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have been involved in many negotiations here in parliament, but this conciliation procedure from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m., these 12 hours, will be remembered for a long time. that was a very high-quality act. unfortunately, we came from two different planets. the parliament's position was quite clear, namely to have the interests of the consumers, of the people in the eu in mind. some others were interested in the meat industry, the agribusiness. it's because of these differences that we didn't get together. it is a pity, because we now have a gap in the eu food law, and this gap must be closed very quickly. we were quite clear - mr pittella as chairman and the rapporteur - that the whole team was pulling together. now you have to take the next step. we need to fill that void. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the other proposal concerns cloning. you heard everything we had to say. we do not want these products on the european market. at least we want them to be labelled, because we want consumers to have the freedom to choose. that's your job. parliament is ready. i hope you will make a proposal very soon.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are all disappointed, that is clear, but i do not think that the responsibility lay with the european parliament's negotiating delegation. i think that the commissioner and the minister present here are not responsible either. it was rather other representatives of the council and the commission who saw problems in third countries in the pre-emptive compliance that were at least not discussed. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. i don't think that was substantiated. i had the great pleasure yesterday of discussing food policy matters with representatives of the american embassy in my country, who came to strasbourg specifically and spoke german with me. the arguments of the american representatives were not so convincing that we could not have found a solution. i asked them what their views were on the subject, and i did not get the impression that we could not have reached an agreement with the americans if we had wanted to. what particularly surprised me was that the americans handed me this paper: a report on the origin labelling in the united states. in the united states, for example, meat minced meat is required to be labeled. for example, in the united states, a packet of hamburgers must have a label stating where the meat for the hamburger comes from. how can we talk about a trade war if we want to identify both cloned meat and the meat of the successors? so here we should have made a little more effort, and not just let the americans cough once and say: we can't do that. i ask the commission to take this as an argument for a new proposal. we must be more confident, and then we will be able to enforce this with third countries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i also regret that the negotiations have failed, particularly because we now have to wait years for rules on the handling of nanotechnology in foodstuffs, for example, and also on products from third countries which are unknown in europe. it was a trap to include animal cloning in this legislation, and we had a debate here on a level that i must say was not human anymore. we debated all night, back and forth, nobody wanted to give in, and then the thing failed in the end. let me point out one thing: we are talking about many things here and legislation. we've already used the same strategy with genetic engineering. we did not want genetic engineering and we have raised the limits and the performance considerably. and what did that end up being? technology has developed to meet even the highest standards. we are discussing the fact that we do not want cloned animals because the animal welfare aspect is not being met and there are dangers here. i have spoken to scientists and i predict that technology will develop in such a way that this aspect - that is, the general prohibition of animal cloning - will no longer be valid. i think that this scientific development is very questionable. we must be more concerned with what foundations we need to create so that we have proper rules, and should not try to stop and prevent any developments by means of laws.
i have to say, madam president, consumer protection policy is a central element of european policy. if we fail to implement consumer protection consistently, we have failed completely on this point. not only do the majority of consumers not want cloning technology, but also the majority of farmers, and that is something that must be emphasized here. i would say that some member states have deliberately blocked the negotiations. they have been protective of the agricultural industry and defended its interests. the talk of the impending trade war - this has been said several times today - was postponed. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes is a very good one. there is a need for action. we appeal to you not to wait months, but to take matters into your own hands now. banning cloning can only be one step. we must insist that there is a system for the offspring. otherwise, the whole thing is basically ineffective.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. it is not every day that members of this parliament from six different political families submit a joint question and start a debate. we have a case like this today and it is no coincidence that it is the role of small and mediumsized enterprises. this is a matter of common concern on a broad basis. one of the questions we are asking is: what is the commission doing to further strengthen financially successful instruments for small and mediumsized enterprises in the future? one of these successful instruments is the competitiveness and innovation programme, the cip. what will the joint strategic framework programme look like when it is developed? what opportunities will smes have in this context? it will certainly not be possible to extend the concept of innovation so far, to define it so broadly that all activities and all small and mediumsized enterprises will be covered by it. but we must not make the mistake of supporting only those smes which we have identified as particularly innovative. i believe that this is why it is so important that the right decisions are taken in the joint strategic framework programme. i would like to point out that this also applies to the criteria for simplification and de-bureaucratization. the cip is already much less bureaucratic than the seventh framework programme. and with regard to small and mediumsized enterprises, alignment with the standards of the seventh framework programme for research would not be a reasonable prospect. so let us find a practical way of continuing what has been good for small and mediumsized enterprises, especially in programmes like cip, so that it does not go under in a reorganisation!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the joint motion for a review of the small business act shows that there is certainly a lot of work to be done before there is actually free movement for smes in europe, particularly at national level. but i am glad that in the european union, in recent years, at least, almost all the legislative proposals of the small business act have been implemented. the new directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions, which entered into force in march, is an important contribution to improving the morale of european consumers in the field of payments. the member states now have two years to implement this directive. i would like to ask and urge that efforts be made to shorten this period, particularly in the member states where this would not be such a big problem, by not delaying implementation for two years but, if possible, by implementing it in one year. the member states have not yet been able to agree on the statute for european private companies. i therefore very much welcome the fact that the hungarian presidency is continuing to pursue this and is placing a focus of its work on this. this form of company could enable small and mediumsized enterprises to save a great deal of money - i am thinking here of accounting or the creation and ongoing legal advice. i am therefore pleased - and i repeat this - that the hungarian presidency is putting a priority on this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we can do a lot more for small and mediumsized enterprises here. we have a lot of bureaucratic regulations and it is always difficult, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, to participate in these public procurement procedures. we need to create more transparency there. we must also try to take advantage of the opportunities that we have with modern media - the key word is the internet.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to say first of all, as you have described it, that the situation has worsened. in the eurozone, the scissors are split between countries that are recovering and countries that are weaker. and the cost of supporting the weaker countries is rising. in this situation, i have a few questions for you as the commissioner for monetary affairs: the ecb's target2 accounts have accumulated over eur 400 billion in liabilities and claims between central banks. this is because banks are still not sufficiently financed by the capital market. how do you assess these liabilities not provided for in the eurosystem? the big problem with the failure to restructure debt is that the banking system, as mrs ford has said, is not set up properly. the proposal for a european restructuring scheme has been delayed. when will the commission present this proposal? and how do you, as commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, assess this delay? what do you do to make it go faster? we have also seen, as we have been predicting for some time as greens, that the measures against greece and portugal will not take effect until macroeconomic conditions in the eurozone improve. we still have absolutely rising interest charges on these countries. we have increased capital outflows and capital flight in some of these countries. and we still have a lack of demand from a number of european partner countries, especially from the strong euro countries. and we have rising resource and food prices, at least when you factor out the recent ups and downs. i wonder, in addition to the bailout for these countries, in addition to the aid on the financing side: what measures are being taken to ensure that the weaker countries get relief on these fronts - taxes, external demand, interest? how do you do that? i would therefore encourage you to propose a strong package that improves the macroeconomic conditions of these countries in the euro area. finally, in greece, portugal and spain, the measures have - in my view, contrary to the spirit of the eu treaty - particularly affected the weakest, while the strongest, the wealthy, have not been called upon to bear part of the burden. what measures are you taking to ensure that the wealthy are also involved in contributing to the costs of this crisis?
mr president, firstly i would like to say to that i feel ashamed by the amount of nationalism and short-sightedness which has been expressed in this debate. mr rangel, i have a question for you. do you feel that the interest rate which you will have to pay under the future programme should be lowered? would lowering these interest rates help your country?
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the effectiveness of european agencies in the field of employment, working conditions and vocational training.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank this house for putting the issue of european agencies on the agenda. the commission attaches great importance to the european union agencies’ efficient functioning. part of this is related to the governance arrangements which apply to all of them. as you are aware, the agencies’ functioning and governance are currently being discussed within the interinstitutional working group involving the commission, parliament and the council, on the basis, inter alia, of a multi-agency evaluation carried out for the commission in 2009. indeed, the time has come to shape a new overall approach to eu agencies, improving their overall coherence, effectiveness, accountability and transparency. the ultimate aim of the interinstitutional working group is, through a step-by-step approach, to develop a general agreement between the three eu institutions on the various issues at hand. we hope this can be achieved by the end of this year or the beginning of next year. cooperation with parliament has been very positive so far, and we trust that we can count on parliament’s support for the next steps. as you know, eu agencies are legally autonomous bodies whose governance rules are laid down in the funding regulations. in general, agencies are overseen by a governing board whose membership may vary according to the nature of the agency. three of the agencies in the field of employment and education for example – eurofund, osha and cedefop – have tripartite governing bodies with representatives of both sides of industry, the member states and also the commission. i wish to reassure you that this house has access to a lot of information, either because this information is in the public domain or because parliament, as part of the budgetary authority, holds hearings with the directors of agencies, on the annual work programmes and on budgetary discharge, in the employment and social affairs committee. each of the agencies – eurofund, osha, the european training foundation and cedefop – has a specific role to play. for example, the european training foundation and cedefop, although both working on vocational education and training, have different geographical scope. the former works outside the eu, the latter inside the eu, and they have different objectives. the european training foundation assists essentially the neighbourhood countries with reforms of education and training systems, while cedefop promotes information gathering and research on the vocational training policies of the member states. the commission is keen to ensure synergies between the two agencies, notably through exchanges of information, joint work programmes, the joint organisation of conferences and seminars, and joint projects.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to extend a warm welcome to the cdu/csu group, mr wesel, in the gallery. i would like to say to commissioner andor that we are very pleased to hear his thanks for the cooperation in the field of agencies. but the fact that the council has now left the plenary is sad and regrettable, because the fact that we have made so little progress in the interinstitutional working party on agencies is mainly due to the council, which is very proud of its efforts to improve this issue with us. that is why the commission should know that we are on its side. we need to put more pressure on the agencies. we are now dealing with four agencies which basically reflect the problems of the agencies, namely the overlap of responsibilities, for example between osha and eurofound and osha and emsa, era and easa. we also have a strong overlap between etf and cedefop. in view of the financial problems in europe, why do we not try to take some really fundamental steps here and simply merge agencies whose responsibilities are so close together, such as the agency for vocational training within europe and those outside europe? there are many good reasons for this. we have problems with the size of agencies and therefore with their efficiency. we have regulatory bodies that have more boards than the agencies have employees. these are all things that are discrediting the european union every day, because everyone who looks at this is grabbing their heads and saying: 'you can't be serious. in particular, we are not reaching the critical size for efficient work at some agencies. then this house has provided too much money and too many staff. we've had a 105% budget increase in 10 years for some agencies like osha, a 69% increase in staff. at eurofound, the budget grew by 39% and the staff by 46%. i therefore urge my colleagues to change this at the next budgetary consultation. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8))
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. yes, it is possible because, of course, there is now overlap in the actual areas of responsibility. i did not invent this, but the commission study has also brought it to light. the commission study points to overlaps, and indeed, surveys of all those who use the work of the agency have shown that overlaps are very strong. that's why i have this. i am happy to make these documents available to you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is very telling when the questioner leaves the room during the discussion! the arguments and questions put forward by some of the speakers before us once again reveal a very revealing populism. we are in a time of crisis and, as usual, we must make savings in areas which affect workers. i think that is very one-sided. i would like to comment briefly on the european training foundation (etf). it is important because of its cooperation with the ilo in the eu's partner countries, for the export of the european social model, especially to the new accession countries, for aid in the development of education, vocational training, continuing training and secure jobs. i was in belgrade 14 days ago and i was reassured of its importance in talks with education authorities there and in talks with turkey. it is a very important task of the etf to accompany the new countries that are joining the eu, to accompany them into the eu labour markets. very important if we prove a little more foresight the arab spring. we want to reduce the number of refugees coming to europe, but then we also have to support the people in their home countries. we need to provide education and support countries in building education and infrastructure.
now as it appears, ms rapti, the fact that i made this exception made other members of the house want to take the floor as well. we are already over time. if you really want the floor i will now have to give it to you but please do not just ask for the floor just to express some kind of disagreement with the process. ms gräßle, you want the floor for one minute? if you want to speak make a point of substance, go ahead.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you had shown that consistency in your colleague's speech, we would have moved on. i am not sure that this is the case. with this attitude we have created the very situation we have now, namely that the agencies are operating with an inefficiency which we really need to address urgently. if we want to preserve the agencies, we have to change them. i can only ask you to jump on this train. the agencies cannot be left as they are, because the agencies are so inefficient, because we lose money every day and we don't make money. i would like to point out again that the financial volume of the four agencies we are talking about here is 90 million euros. that's a lot of money. i'm not sure the consideration is really worth 90 million. i'd like to think so. we owe it to our citizens, to our taxpayers! i have to justify every day to my german taxpayers that we get value for money. i think that there is still room for improvement.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank mrs merkies, for her excellent work. i would also like to thank the many colleagues who have worked on this and the commission, for the good cooperation they have shown. we are all in agreement on this. we have already adopted many programmes and papers here, from the lisbon strategy to eu 2020 and many more. we have repeatedly said that the future of europe will depend on our success in solving this innovation problem. we also agree that everything to do with education and training, with research, is part of it, and that the entrepreneurial part is important. it is nevertheless true - and it has just been mentioned - that in other regions of the world the mobilisation of talents and ideas is clearly working better than in our own. so we have to stop for at least a second or maybe even two to think about what this is all about. is it because we're not providing enough money, or is it because we're not finding the right approach to mobilize what's there of potential? this is what mrs merkies referred to in her speech. i want to make another small contribution: we were with a delegation in california and we had a meeting in the evening with young entrepreneurs or people who want to do something. i will never forget that night! there were young people with bright eyes, enthusiasm, confidence, and others who had confidence in them, and they asked only one thing: please help all those who want to do something, so that they have a chance, so that they have freedom, so that they do not have to worry about regulations from morning to night. i'll never forget that, because it was a very, very important clue to me. how can we actually increase the effectiveness of what we are doing in research? i think that in the research area, for example, what we are doing with the erc and the eit is interesting and exciting, and that it can be something. the question of venture capital and people is probably best answered by not trying to assess, decide and set the tone for all the issues as politicians. perhaps only a few rules are needed, or as mrs merkies said, less is often more. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8))
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i always believe in the good and the positive, and in the spirit of the young people we met in california, i say: yes, you can do it! but maybe you don't have to go into all the details.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am sure that the commission will be able to take account of the views expressed by the honourable member. i also take it from what you said that it is still being handled with too much restraint. it is not, as mr öry has emphasized in this debate, that we know too little about the question of how domestic workers work in europe. on the contrary, we know enough to say that there is an urgent need for regulation. 5 to 9% of all employees work in private households. they are the lowest paid, most disenfranchised and often the most illegal group of workers in europe. this calls for urgent action by the european commission as well. the situation we have now will not be improved by the free movement of workers. the initiative for this ilo convention is therefore very welcome and must be supported. i would like to make four points: firstly, the definition of this ilo convention is vague. if no domestic worker is allowed to work in this sector on an occasional, sporadic or non-professional basis, then the by-products are practically ready. secondly, there is an urgent need to create a contractual obligation for such activities. thirdly, we need not only a reasonable, universally binding minimum wage system, but also equal treatment in employment. and fourthly, we need a statutory social security obligation for these workers, particularly in this minimum wage sector. i am pleased that in her opinion mrs berès has called for a campaign to bring about a transition to regular employment. that's good! it must be the case that in future work that does not allow you to live independently will also be socially ostracized and no longer accepted.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. in germany, domestic workers are exempt from the occupational safety and health legislation. nor is it covered by the european framework directive. the reason: the state cannot control compliance with regulations in private dwellings. other eu member states face similar obstacles. 15 of them have not included domestic workers in their work safety legislation. but these workers deserve special protection. i therefore call for the adoption of an ilo basic convention. i think that the transposition of substantial parts into community law is questionable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i would like to thank the ilo working groups for their excellent work. some problems remain, for example in the definition. instead of including only domestic work in article 1, it is also appropriate to include domestic services. the rest period is also a problem. each employee must be granted one rest day per week, but not necessarily in the same week. the time periods should be agreed individually in the member states, so much flexibility is needed. i do not understand the prohibition of goods directly related to work, such as uniforms, tools or protective equipment. this presumably means that they may not be included in the remuneration. we need a ban on the charging of benefits in kind to wages. i think that when these inconsistencies are removed, it is time to sign the ilo agreement on domestic workers! i would like to thank mrs berès for the initiative and all those who have said: we want to try to make progress for people who, god knows, deserve protection.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to refer again to the commissioner's speech. he asked very carefully whether the european commission had any powers or responsibility in this matter. i think she has more responsibility, especially when it comes to freedom of movement. we immediately think of the workers who are posted. i will give only one example: in berlin, the social partners have a counselling centre for posted workers. but what is the largest group that asks there, not only from berlin but from all over germany? these are nursing professionals employed as domestic workers under sometimes disastrous conditions, under really precarious employment conditions. it's a way of bypassing minimum working conditions. some of them are even pseudo-employed. that is why we have tabled this amendment. the majority of these are workers from other eu countries and non-eu countries. this shows that the commission has a responsibility to act and to introduce minimum standards in this area.
member of the commission. − madam president, first i would like to emphasise that the commission is fully aware of, and correspondingly concerned by, the threat to public health posed by antimicrobial resistance (amr). in reply to the first question, in 2009 the commission asked the european medicines agency (ema) to take a lead in collecting comparable data on the use of antimicrobials in animals. the project, the european surveillance of veterinary antimicrobial consumption (esvac), started in the third quarter of 2009. the ema has worked together with the member states, eu agencies and relevant stakeholders to develop the system. findings from the data available from 10 member states will be published as soon as possible. twelve additional member states are voluntarily starting to collect these data. the aim is to broaden the system to cover all eu member states. a further aim is to have data on a more detailed level – at animal species level, for example. why do we need these data? we need them in order to adopt a science-based approach: only on the basis of this type of data can scientists properly assess the true risk of amr attributed to the use of antimicrobials in animals. turning to the second question, i can assure the honourable members that the commission is aware that the control of amr requires a multi-disciplinary approach. therefore the commission consults its own services, member states’ relevant agencies and other stakeholders on an ongoing basis, for example through meetings and public consultations. the commission is working on amr in close collaboration with its relevant agencies, in particular the european centre for disease prevention and control, the european food safety authority, the ema and the european union reference laboratory for amr. in reply to the third and last question, i would like to announce that the commission is developing a five-year strategy on amr. this strategy will adopt a holistic approach and will contain concrete proposals for further action to address the issue of amr in relation to public and animal health. the strategy will be based on the council conclusions and recommendations on amr and on the outcome of the consultations i have already mentioned. work on the revision of eu rules on veterinary medicinal products and medicated feeding stuffs is ongoing. new tools and instruments to tackle amr are being considered, for example as options in the impact assessment. based on the evidence gathered, the commission will decide the details of its legal proposal. our objective is to present this commission strategy on 18 november 2011, which will be european antibiotic awareness day.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank the chairman of our committee on agriculture, mr paolo de castro, for his initiative and for the oral question to the commission on this important subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. antibiotic resistance is indeed a serious issue that has received too little attention in the livestock sector. antimicrobials, when used properly, are undoubtedly a useful tool to help our farmers keep their animals healthy and productive and also to ensure the welfare of the animals. a coordinated approach at community level is essential to ensure that antibiotics continue to be effective in the fight against diseases in animals as well as in humans. we have had a very intensive discussion on this subject in the committee on agriculture in recent weeks and have dealt with it in depth. the jointly drafted resolution was adopted by a large majority in the committee on 12 april, 34 votes in favour and 2 against. the excellent cooperation with all the shadow rapporteurs of the political groups has resulted in a very balanced and good text, which we should - and i ask you to do so - stick to in tomorrow's vote in plenary. the report is balanced, taking into account both animal health and the problem of antibiotic resistance, and the economic viability of the farms. i would therefore like to thank once again all those responsible in the committee on agriculture, including mrs paulsen, for the good cooperation and the good cooperation. i now want the commission to take action.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is a very serious matter. it is of great importance not only for the future of animal husbandry but also for human health. we must keep pointing this out. this is not a problem for the committee on agriculture and rural development. what we lack - and this has become clear again - is sufficient data bases. so if only 10 member states give feedback, that is not enough. the subject needs to be dealt with a little faster. and we lack a precise control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we'll have to keep an eye on that. there's something we can do about it. in a re-design of agricultural policy, we can ensure that we promote species-appropriate animal husbandry, that we provide animals with biological conditions that are species-appropriate, and that we farm with robust animals, following the motto 'prevention is better than cure'. but what we also need - and this is what the commission must do - is a long-term plan to reduce the use of antibiotics in agriculture. the main victims of antibiotic resistance are those working in agriculture, i.e. ultimately the farmers or their employees. this group of people already has enormous problems with the subject. another concern is that antibiotic resistance is suspected to be transmitted directly through food. we must also pay attention to this in the interests of the health of the european population. so there is an urgent need for action. to put it very clearly: 50% of all antibiotics used in livestock farming is too much! we must therefore reduce this in the long term in the interests of agriculture but also of public health.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we need to do everything we can to counter further antibiotic resistance. i think we can all agree on that. in addition to the responsible use of antibiotics in human medicine, this also includes the responsible use of antibiotics in animal husbandry. the european union must take a decisive stance. we cannot allow the deaths of 25 000 people a year in the european union alone from infections caused by resistant germs. under no circumstances should antibiotics be used routinely or preventively. it is necessary to ensure that antibiotics are used conscientiously in all member states. it is of the utmost importance that every effort be made in animal husbandry to keep animals as healthy as possible from the time of rearing until they reach adulthood. because healthy animals are the a and o to avoid infectious diseases and thus the use of antibiotics. the feeding of the animals plays a crucial role, but the way they are kept is also important. we should also be open to alternative methods such as the use of homeopathy and phytotherapy in livestock farming. we need more research and knowledge in europe for these alternative approaches.
i have to say, madam president, i am very grateful to the author of the question, our committee chairman, for bringing this subject up. antibiotic use in animals here the advantages and disadvantages are very closely linked. what can help animals to get well can become a great danger to humans if used improperly. we therefore need a coordinated, holistic and above all scientific approach, because the use of antibiotics in animals will continue to be necessary. on the other hand, we must guard against threats to man. this is precisely the claim made by the present report. i hope that the commission will take up parliament's suggestions, wishes and demands, and above all - as my predecessors have said on several occasions - we need an analysis of the actual situation by all the member states in the interests of animals, in the interests of european agriculture and above all in the interests of the citizens of the european union.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, we are taking antibiotics in our food and we are becoming resistant to them. a medical advance that is slowly being destroyed. we have known this for a long time. mr castro has outlined the measures taken so far. i support the proposals contained in the resolution. i would like to focus on two aspects: rules alone are not enough. we have seen in the dioxin scandal how easily they can be dismantled by individual black sheep who are grossly negligent. we need to set rules, of course, and we need to introduce surveillance, but that alone is not the solution. the solution is that we need to make antibiotics largely obsolete in the medium to long term. we are doing this firstly by investing in research and networking expertise, secondly by sharing this knowledge with farmers and veterinarians, and thirdly by informing consumers. we need to use market forces wisely, because in the long run, consumers decide how our food is produced.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i should like to say a few words after mrs schaake on the important report she has drawn up. the cultural dimension of the eu's foreign policy cannot be overemphasized. we therefore need - as you have already said - a coherent eu strategy for culture in the eu's external policy. cultural diplomacy plays an important role in building successful relations with third countries. and in many countries we have a network of cultural institutes, the eunic. there are many who have joined in and are helping us. i would now like to turn to the second topic of today, which has already been raised by mr zver: the subject of youth on the move, which is a key initiative of the 2020 strategy. this flagship initiative is intended to encourage all education and training actors to pay more attention to these policy areas. we need better trained people. we need people who have experienced europe through improved mobility. we must unlock the potential of young people through our successful programmes. all of this plays a major role in the competitiveness of a knowledgebased society. in the area of lifelong learning, with the existing comenius, erasmus, leonardo and grundtvig programmes, we have given many people wonderful opportunities to see europe in its diversity, to gain knowledge for themselves, to improve their language skills. in this context too, the importance of the youth in action programme and the european voluntary service programme should not be underestimated. the commission must also take this debate as a signal to the commission that we must continue these programmes and opportunities which have been embraced by the people in the next generation of education and youth programmes and that their funding will be proportionate to their importance. every euro we spend in this area will pay off for the whole of society in just a few years. i now come to another subject: sarajevo. sarajevo has a special place in european history and culture. by being named european capital of culture 2014, we could send an important signal to the multiethnic character of the city and the state of bosnia and herzegovina, which might also prompt the country's political class to rethink. it is also a city that makes clear the failure of europe and the need for common action. this would be a significant sign, as sarajevo was the scene of the bombing that started world war i in 1914, so 2014 100 years later. during the bosnian war, sarajevo suffered the longest siege of a capital city in the history of modern warfare, from 1992 to 1996. let me remind you of a day, may 28, 1992, in sarajevo: the black-clad cellist vedran smajovic played the adagio by tomaso albinoni on his instrument. his stage is the ruins of the destroyed national library in sarajevo, his audience a small group of people who stayed in the city despite the siege and listen to his music. for 22 days he played in various places of the destroyed sarajevo. it was his requiem for the people who were killed in those days. i was moved and i admired this courageous and encouraging behavior of the cellist and his audience. what people expressed in their behavior in the face of horror and loss, has forever connected me to this city. the cultural life of sarajevo has never ceased. the winter festival took place under the most adverse circumstances. and people of all nationalities flock there every year. every year there's a winter festival, a kids festival, a film festival. from korea to australia, from bulgaria to sweden, filmmakers are coming to sarajevo, co-productions are being created. the city has retained and maintains an intercultural character, even though the political environment is increasingly divided along ethnic lines. that alone deserves this city the chance to prove its immense intercultural potential. sarajevo intends to apply for the title under a derogation and has already made extensive preparations for this. we all know very well that we are asking for a derogation from the decision of the european parliament and the council if we agree to our proposal today. but if this house today expresses its support for the application of sarajevo, i trust in the council's insight and foresight, because our arguments cannot be contradicted. bosnia-herzegovina and sarajevo need a sign right now that all is not lost, that europe is also supporting these efforts. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. back to the point. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the work of the committee on employment and social affairs. the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted a resolution on the situation in the european union, which calls for the creation of a european employment strategy. in my opinion for the employment committee i did not refer to the commission report because it was too vague for me. it was important for me to include very specific tasks. i did not share some of the views expressed in the report. the employment committee considers that the transition from school to work is an important aspect. this is a central interface. the transition must be carried out without waiting. we also want to ensure that young people do not enter the labour market in conditions of social dumping and in conditions of dumping. the role of the interns was important to us. they are important and necessary, but abuse must be avoided and prohibited. we want an initiative for a european qualifications framework which sets minimum standards for traineeships. finally, a request to parliament and the commission: the youth in action programme shall not be reduced or abolished in favour of the youth on the move programme. because the work of youth associations is important for social commitment and also brings young people forward in terms of content and personally. this is also of great benefit for later working life.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the report on the cultural dimension in the eu's external policy shows that parliament is determined to make its own contribution to this new policy area. the fact that i do not see a foreign office representative in this room today - i will be careful to say this - shows how necessary this report is. the report rightly calls for cultural aspects to play a more important role in foreign policy in the future and for them to be integrated more systematically. it was important for my group to call for a coherent strategy which better coordinates the existing eu external programmes with cultural components, while taking into account the cultural diversity in the eu. doris pack has already pointed out that the existing structures in and between the member states, such as the eunic network of national cultural institutes, must be integrated and civil society must be seen as part of the european external cultural policy. the eu's maxim 'united in diversity' should also be reflected in the eu's external image. and we should use new media even better as a communication platform for this. we must be careful that art and culture do not become a means to an end in foreign policy. it is the cultural values which shape our european community. it is therefore right and important to communicate this cultural diversity and identity to the outside world through political means. i am sure that we can achieve much more with this, including in the discussion of human rights and democracy, than with some sometimes hollow gestures of threat from this house.
the commission has already done so. in fact, we are having a debate this morning about the role of culture in the different policy areas - in foreign policy, in economic policy, in education policy, in social policy - and we know that we all benefit from taking culture more seriously. the democratic upsurge in the arab countries would not have been possible without this culturally conditioned desire for openness, for cultural diversity, for democratic upsurge, for freedom of the press. creative industries are an important part of economic policy. in my country, germany, there are more jobs in the creative industries than in the automotive industry. that is something to be noted. this is why it is an important part of the eu 2020 strategy. but what i want to point out is that if we want to strengthen the creative industries, we have to focus on digital development first and foremost. we know that the producers of creative content are at the top of the cultural value chain. so on the one hand, we have a great interest in cultural diversity, in empowering creatives, in easy access to content on the web. but we also want the artists to be paid fairly. that's not always the case in the digital world right now. that's why we need to change the contract law to strengthen the bargaining power of artists. we need to develop new business models to strike a fair balance between easy access for users and good pay for those who develop the new content. my final thought: it would be of great symbolic value and a great historical achievement for europe if sarajevo became the european capital of culture in 2014. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, and visitors! the cultural diversity of europe is an important asset which must be preserved and developed in the future. to achieve this, we must face the challenges of the digital age not only in the information and knowledge society, but also in the cultural and creative sectors. cultural diversity is not only an ideal value, but also an important economic factor. in the eu, some five million people are employed in the cultural sector. this represents about 2.5% of total employment. the cultural sector is a growth sector which is developing faster than many other sectors of the economy. the development of information and communication technologies is driven by the content offered by the cultural sector, just as the nature and quality of content have changed and evolved as a result of technology. we therefore need a framework for the cultural and creative industries to develop sustainably in the face of the challenges of the digital age. we need a modern, accessible and legally secure system in which everyone can develop equally. the cultural and creative industries are a driving force for europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we need to provide young people with cultural and creative skills, also through lifelong learning. we must also strengthen the entrepreneurial skills of cultural workers and develop a good knowledge of the media and new technologies. we need a framework in which cultural workers can make a living. we will therefore have to deal intensively with the issues of copyright, social protection and intellectual property, but also with open access to information and content, in order to ensure the future development of the creative and cultural industries in a digital environment and to preserve the cultural diversity and heritage of europe as an essential feature of the european union.
, in writing. the report has brought to the fore a group of professions that is all too often neglected. what would european culture be without all these creative people? in addition to the economic benefits of the creative industries, we must not forget the people who work in this sector! as the shadow rapporteur for my group on employment and social affairs, we were therefore particularly concerned about the social situation and the conditions in which creative people in europe live. unfortunately, many of the five million people who live off the creative industries work in precarious conditions. second and third jobs are not uncommon, since one job is often not enough to live on. lack of health and pension insurance is common. contracts are often uncertain, and many creative people can't plan more than a few months in advance. furthermore, an adequate level of social protection, with adequate unemployment, health and pension insurance, must also be a matter of everyday life for people working in the creative industries. i am very glad that the rapporteur has followed the opinion of the employment committee and incorporated it in her report. the commission and the member states are now called upon to redress social ills and to give the many creative people in europe the promise that they too will not have to live in precarious conditions.
i have to say, madam president, today, the federal chairman of the sudeten german national team is here, including the sudeten german youth, who are vigorously promoting cross-border cooperation with czech youth. the report is of inestimable importance here because it covers three points: firstly, the networking of universities, especially in the european regions and border regions; secondly, vocational training - because we need more than academic training - and thirdly, and above all, the issue of language skills. i want to make it clear that i love the language of shakespeare, but i think it's a shame when young people only converse in one language. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. because you can only really learn about your neighbor's culture when you also begin to assimilate into his language. we have great challenges and opportunities there.
i have to say, madam president, the crisis in the fisheries sector is not solely due to the rising world oil prices, because fuels are already generally exempt from taxation and because rising world oil prices are a burden on all fishermen in the world, both within and outside the european union. secondly, the raising of the de minimis thresholds should be seen as an opportunity to help fishermen to work more environmentally friendly and sustainable, i.e. to fish. and thirdly, the reduction in fuel prices alone will not meet this requirement. i am also quite simply expecting innovative and helpful solutions from the member states in this respect.
madam president, i just wanted to ask whether something could be called an ideology just because it is not liked in ireland.
i have to say, madam president, unfortunately, i did not have the opportunity to speak in the debate yesterday, which i attended. but above all, i would like to join the speakers who stressed that innovation and research should and must also take place in the agricultural sector. agriculture is not an old economy, agriculture is modern and it is also where life, research and innovation take place. european agriculture faces at least three major challenges: first, the safeguarding of human food, second, the preservation of the environment and third, the production of energy. these sometimes very divergent objectives require a thorough scientific penetration today and in the future.
i have to say, madam president, the employment situation in private households is as follows: i agree with those who say that workers in this sector - mostly women - also have a right to a fair wage and to fair social benefits. i also agree with those who say that there is a lot of injustice and that incredible things are happening in this area. but i would also ask that you pay attention to the bureaucratic effort involved in enforcing legitimate demands. in germany, for example, the situation is such that i, as a person concerned, have to use the help of a tax adviser for employment in the private sector, simply because of the high level of bureaucracy and the complexity of the legal provisions. it takes nerve, it takes time, and it takes money. those who shy away from this effort usually pay their employees in cash and thus contribute, sometimes unconsciously, to the black market. so please, consider the bureaucratic effort as well.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make a few remarks on this subject as a trained farmer. firstly, it is right that we should aim to reduce the use of antibiotics, particularly in animal production. 'as little as possible' should be the basis of our action. secondly, we need an analysis of the actual situation, that is to say, an analysis of the data situation, of what is actually happening in the member states of the european union. of course, all member states must be involved in this analysis. thirdly, we need more scientific research to analyse risks and to be able to respond effectively to risks. fourthly, what we do not need are ideological images of the enemy. ideology cannot replace science.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. in february i was in sri lanka with the south asian delegation. there we witnessed the tremendous efforts to repair the damage of 25 years of civil war. the eu, the un and ngos are helping, from the halo trust clearing landmines to the tamils resettling in their former homeland. we call on the government to respond positively to the recommendations of the un panel of experts which found war crimes and crimes against humanity by the sinhalese and the ltte. the establishment of a government commission for reconciliation, judicial development, language problems and the treatment of former frontline fighters is encouraging. the consistent willingness to cooperate, the will to integrate minorities and the assurance of respect for international legal norms are the basis for the development of a country which has a real future without violence and without terror. we strongly appeal to the eu high representative to support such efforts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not always agree with mr maštálka, but i do today. first of all, i would like to say that all parties must fight for democracy and the rule of law to return to belarus. and secondly, i am a supporter of multilingualism, as he is. i come from a small europe like him, the habsburg monarchy, which was not bad in many ways, but which collapsed because the largest language group - mine, the german one - insisted that everyone speak german. and that is the end of a multinational community. dear charles, i appreciate you very much, but we are here for multilingualism and especially for the rights of small languages. and as far as belarus is concerned, i would like to say that 20 years ago croatia and slovenia became free - i was there - and in august the baltic states, russia and ukraine. no one would have thought that 20 years later, there would still be a dictatorship in europe. but unfortunately there is not just one, there is belarus, there is a dictatorial development in russia, there is a backward development in ukraine, there are problems in moldova and transnistria. and we simply have to see that our entire eastern neighbourhood is threatened in varying degrees in their freedom. and that is why we must be clear here, we must think strategically and we must make freedom and the rule of law the benchmark of our relations with the entire eastern neighbourhood, and not least with belarus.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs kinga göncz is a member of my group. you can be against ferenc gyurcsány, you can be for ferenc gyurcsány. you can reject kinga göncz as a politician or be for her. it is safe for everyone to be free and independent to determine whether they are for or against a person's political beliefs. the debate we are having here is about the last dictatorship in europe. and we're leading them through one of the most brutal and bloody dictators on the european continent. i find it absolutely unacceptable that a freely elected democratic member of my group should be compared to a bloodthirsty dictator. i think that parliament must also reject this, especially from the representative of a party which is distinguished for its part by covering the roma minority in hungary with hatred and persecution that is unparalleled in europe. if there is one person who has no right to criticize mrs kinga göncz, it is mrs morvai. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are debating today and tomorrow a european law which may not seem so important at first sight, but with this law on european environmental balances we are probably opening a new chapter in the measurement of progress and prosperity. we've known for a long time that gross national product is not enough. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we have monthly statistics on the labour market, we have annual statistics on the economy. so we know all about these things. but we have a torso and a patchwork of environmental impact data. this law on the environmental accounting of the whole economy is intended to help the 27 member states to take a precise account of the situation and to determine whether we are moving forward or, as is often the case, whether we are going backwards. as early as 2002, parliament called for sound information on the state of the environment, the main trends, influences and causes of environmental change to be collected and the public to be informed about it. we want a scientifically sound approach to measuring resource use so that policy decisions can be made accordingly. now we are glad that the commission took this legislative initiative in april 2010, but we think it was far too hesitant. we in parliament and all the groups have called for this to be done more quickly, because the oecd and the un have been talking about these things for 15 years. this is taking way too long. we have therefore made considerable progress in the negotiations with the council. it was very difficult in the council because some countries do not draw up environmental reports and we first have to establish a foundation for all 27 member states. the commission has proposed to include three modules: these are the air emissions, so we know very well what gases are emitted into the air. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the project is not underestimated. and third, the material flows in a society year by year, the input and output, but measured purely in quantitative terms. it is perhaps a start, but it is too simple a start, and parliament has demanded that we also draw up water, energy and waste balances, that we know the state of the forests. these are the modules we are most anxious to have in the very near future. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the programme. i guess the methodology needs some work. so, we've made some improvements here. the commission is to present a report in two years' time, by 2013 at the latest, and possibly propose a revision of this directive. i hope that by the end of this decade, in addition to the gross national product, there will be an eco-social product. that's our goal.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. when i read the commission's first proposal, i was very sceptical about how it was dealt with. but what the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, my predecessor mrs joly, have now put forward is something that can be accepted and supported. in most countries, environmental economic data for the three modules are already collected on a voluntary basis. we need a clear picture of what is being achieved in each country in terms of air emissions, environmental taxes and material flows. this is very important. this will help us to understand better the dependence of the environment and the economy. we can also examine how sustainable economic development is taking place in europe and how environmental policy could be refined. that is a very important point to be made here. but i also want to give you a little warning . in the sunday speeches we always talk about cutting red tape. i would appeal to the commission not to create a new bureaucracy here. that would be the wrong way. i therefore ask the commission whether it intends to create new posts in the commission for data collection or whether it will be satisfied with the current staff. because i think it is very important that the collection of data does not involve any new burdens. it is only when the first implementation report is available in 2013 that we can and should decide which modules to add. we must see how this new system has developed and how it affects the legislation. i was very shocked to find that this was not something that should be discussed in parliament today. that would have been a big mistake. because, as the reporter said, something new is developing here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. good statistics, efficient data collection and analysis, this is the basis of future design. it is therefore appropriate to harmonise existing statistics of the member states in order to make the right decisions for the future on the basis of the same data throughout europe. the objective is to have the same, comparable data from all member states. the question is, what can we learn from this data? what further conclusions can be drawn to achieve a socially, economically and environmentally balanced development of europe? the commission intends to extend the national accounts to key aspects of sustainable development. it proposes three modules to collect data on economic activities that cause air emissions, environmental tax revenues and material flows. this includes products of plant origin such as cereals, legumes, vegetables, fruit and wood. i wonder if such calculations are meaningful. i am not as optimistic as the rapporteur and the other members. the desire is one thing, the feasibility is another. i doubt the efficiency of the bureaucratic effort and i question the objectivity of the project of drawing up environmental economic balance sheets, of recording material flows and of evaluating individual products and even plants precisely in terms of co2 emissions. for example, both the production of oxygen and the emissions of co2 from production and transport must be included in such calculations for plants. i welcome the fact that the compromise now reached makes it clear that additional data requirements may only be required after a flexibility assessment and that member states' competences may not be compromised. the aim is to develop programmes without additional financial and bureaucratic effort.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you for the debate and i see a widespread support for the creation of environmental balance sheets in the european union. with few exceptions, this is what is advocated here. i also agree with what my colleague karin kadenbach said. many of us thought that there was, and then we are surprised to find that there is not much data and that we are therefore quite blind in our statements about the state of the environment in the european union. a colleague, mr gerbrandy, said that to measure is to know. we know something, and knowledge is the basis for action, for all our programmes. we just need better foundations for the decisions we make. these environmental reports can help us to do that. we have the eu 2020 strategy, where sustainability is the plan objective. i hope that in the next few years we will still have this foundation, so that in 2020 we can determine whether we have been successful or not. we know that gdp doesn't tell us anything about the state of nature, the environment, the resources we've used, and the whole sustainability issue. that is why this is necessary. we're also taking a step-by-step approach. mrs klaß, it is not an overreaction, but the modules should be worked out gradually. the commissioner has said that the individual laws - the water laws, the waste laws, the air pollution laws - already require such data to be collected. europe also has a duty to the world, mr nuttall. if we sign the biodiversity convention, the climate convention, other conventions, then we need to be able to tell other parts of the world whether we were good or bad. so all in all, thanks to the shadow rapporteurs, thanks also to eurostat, which has to do the work. i hope that the necessary resources are available in luxembourg, because without money, without resources, of course, this balance sheet cannot be drawn up. parliament should help. thank you, thank you. this is an important political issue - and some have rightly recognised this - and a new chapter in the consideration of what we are doing in europe year after year.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, many thanks for your very pertinent questions. the commission welcomes the decision of the executive board of the imf on 20 may this year, which clarifies the selection process for the next managing director of the imf. the commission agrees that the selection process has to be open, transparent and merit-based. this will enable candidates from all imf member countries to compete on the basis of their merits, taking into account all relevant aspects. the eu member states have agreed that they will back the best qualified candidate who is able to meet the high standards required to fulfil the responsibilities attached to this very important position. such a candidate will, in particular, need to have demonstrated strong capabilities, a commitment to multilateral coordination, and a great knowledge of international economic, financial and monetary affairs. the commission supports this agreement. the commission fully supports the candidacy of minister christine lagarde. she is a competent and experienced candidate, who has gained the respect of our partners in the international community. she not only has a very good knowledge of the european economy and eu decision-making, which is a merit in these times, but also very strong experience in global economic governance – through her successful management of the g20 presidency, for instance. let me also add that last year an agreement was reached at the g20 summit in seoul in korea to reduce european representation in relative terms on the imf board by two seats, so as to increase the voice and representation of emerging market economies. the issue of the external representation of the euro area, while related to the general reform of the international monetary fund, is not directly linked to the selection of the managing director of the imf. the commission is of the view that it is in the common interest of europe, the union and its member states, to move progressively towards a single seat for the european union, or at least the euro area, in the imf. gradually and progressively. mr president, honourable members, as you know i am fully committed to the reform and reinforcement of eu economic governance, both internally and externally. in achieving this i prefer to apply the tested method of jean monnet: europe is built through concrete progress in real life, one step at a time, taking larger and smaller steps. therefore let us first conclude the reform of our internal governance, which is urgently needed and which will be a huge step forward once implemented. then let us tackle the challenge of external representation which will be another major step forward once agreed and implemented. one big step at a time.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is not so much a question of persons as it is a question of an electoral procedure. if you look up the imf's selection process on the internet, the only answer you will find is that the us and europe share the two leadership positions. this means that the most powerful countries share control of the world economy among themselves, as it were, as a minority. this is feudalism, it has nothing to do with democracy and therefore we cannot accept it. in our view, the resignation of dominique strauss-kahn offers a great opportunity to bring about a fundamental change in the appointment and election procedures, to an open, transparent and above all quality and qualification-based electoral procedure, as has been called for recently by a number of ngos. this includes a combination of a majority of the votes of the members of the imf and a majority of the shares in the imf. so far, only the shares in the imf are taken into account, which ensures a structural majority of economically strong countries. such a reform, such a change in the voting procedure, would be in line with the reform of the imf, would also be in line with the changes in global economic conditions and would also give the developing countries the opportunity to bring their experience with the imf into the further development of the imf. finally, - and this is my final point - the imf must be committed to working in the interest of reducing global imbalances and poverty.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank mr audy and all the other colleagues who have worked with us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we all agree that the question of investment in research is the central question for the future of europe. but whether we have the courage to draw any conclusions from this will be seen as we move on to the next round. we have to be able to do that, and we have to be able to get the necessary funding. that's what everyone says, but it's gonna be tough. and how do we manage to use the resources we have more effectively? i am very grateful that we have placed a great deal of emphasis on the question of simplification in the context of this debate, also in connection with mrs carvalho's report. how do we make it easier, faster and more effective, how do we make it more effective with the tools we have? this is a second central question, alongside the question of adequate finances. thirdly, we must be careful - and i would like to disagree with some of my colleagues - not to distribute funds according to the motto 'everyone gets a little'. that is not the principle of how we can handle research funds. research funding can only be awarded on the basis of excellence. this means that - and this is regrettable - they are not equally distributed in all member states. we are therefore faced with the great task of ensuring that the member states which do not yet meet the criteria of excellence are built up. we obviously need other instruments for this, because this question is not yet settled. we need a future instrument that does not ensure that resources are distributed equally, but that other resources are used with other instruments to give emphasis here too. last but not least, we need to promote less. we cannot avoid deciding on the elementary points on which we want to concentrate. if everyone brings a new topic, then it will not help at the end of the research grant. we must have the courage to look at what is particularly good and what we particularly want to promote.
the commission has already done so. the negotiations with canada are being conducted with a country which has a strong economy and a highly developed legal system. it is all the more incomprehensible that the commission intends to incorporate into this agreement, if not to conceal, an investment agreement which is intended to give the company a direct right of action before a special arbitration tribunal. why should not the ordinary courts decide on compensation in case of doubt? what kind of courts are those which you, as commissioner, do not trust to overrule? the canadian or the european union? do you not see that this part of the contract would discriminate against domestic companies? my group also - as some colleagues have already said - is firmly opposed to the commission's approach of using the agreement to impose the liberalisation of services by means of a negative list. this reverses the previous approach whereby the contracting parties define which areas they want to actively open. we want the maintenance of public services. i would also ask the commission to explain its negative attitude to canada's proposals on social and employment policy, which are positive for the sustainability chapter. the european parliament also calls for workers' protection, overtime pay, minimum wages and the rejection of social dumping.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the credit rating agencies certainly did not cause the global financial crisis, but i think they did contribute significantly to its worsening. in the united states, when so-called structured finance products were developed on the basis of subprime mortgages, the rating agencies supported this approach by rating dozens, if not hundreds, of products on a daily basis, as if on a conveyor belt. they have also accepted conflicts of interest by giving advice and helping the issuers to design these products. and they continued to claim that they were only expressing an opinion, even though they knew full well that their ratings were being used as a seal of approval. my report addresses a number of weaknesses and makes suggestions in the hope that when the commission presents its legislative proposal in the autumn, it may be able to take up some of these proposals. i have five suggestions: first, the dependence on credit ratings must be reduced. we find in practice that the regulatory environment has led to the fact that in many cases, it is absolutely necessary to use credit ratings, by banks, by insurance companies, by pension funds, etc., who invest their money. basel ii made this very clear, and de facto the rating agencies have become so-called regulatory certification bodies. we should reopen the possibility for market participants, especially institutional investors, who have their own know-how, to actually take their own responsibility and not de facto outsource the responsibility for investment decisions. it should be noted that investors should only invest if they actually understand the product and cannot be persuaded to make a triple a product the automatic target of their investment strategy. secondly, we need to make sure that the information that the rating agencies use to make their decisions is publicly available, that it is understood, and that we know what models they use. this leads to transparency, which also facilitates self-rating by institutional investors seeking to invest and also helps to enable so-called unsolicited ratings. in this context, we should also consider whether the proposal which the united states is considering is not sensible, namely, where only one credit rating agency is selected by the issuer, to encourage a second one by an independent body to also give a rating and then to have this second body work on the basis of publicly available information. thirdly, we need more competition. we have a de facto oligopoly. the three rating agencies that exist and that operate globally control 95% of the world's business. they generate what is called a monopoly interest of 40% on turnover, and that is why i propose that we set up a european rating agency. it should be based on a foundation model and the start-up financing should be made available to the financial sector through interest-bearing loans. after five years, you know if it works, and then that foundation rating agency would have to pay back the funds that they got. but there are other ways, i'm sure. it would also be useful to have national and regional rating agencies working in the form of a european network. fourthly, we have an open question regarding the number model. at the moment, the issuer pays. that's the model that basically works in the world. so the issuer pays. there are, of course, conflicts of interest which can be reduced by no longer consulting the issuer and by actually appointing the supervisory bodies independently. other models would be that the investor pays. there is, of course, the danger of conflicts of interest and the danger that this will invite a kind of treadmill. so that's what we have to think about. the third option would be a performance-based payment, i.e. a deposit and final payment only after you know how good this rating is. and the last but not least, we need to introduce liability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, commissioner barnier is currently in the united states meeting with his counterparts and he has asked me to convey to you the following statement in reply to wolf klinz’s own-initiative report on rating agencies, which was adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs in march. the commissioner agrees that shortcomings in the working methods of credit rating agencies are widely recognised today as having contributed to the financial crisis. in order to address these concerns, and in accordance with g20 commitments, the eu reacted very quickly by adopting – already in 2009 – a regulation on credit rating agencies. this introduces strict requirements with which agencies must comply in order to eliminate potential conflicts of interest and to improve the quality of rating and methodologies as well as the transparency of the ratings. as a second step, following the establishment of the three new european financial supervisory agencies, the regulation of credit rating agencies will be strengthened by the introduction of centralised supervision by the european supervisory markets authority. the amending regulation became effective on 1 june 2011. we will pay very close attention to the correct application of this legislation. nowadays the european regulatory framework is a model for other jurisdictions. however, the developments in the european markets following the sovereign debt crisis in spring 2010 make it clear that further review and strengthening is required. for this reason, the commission undertook in june 2010 to analyse the topics in depth. a public consultation was carried out, the commission services have evaluated the responses and are working on an impact assessment with a view to issuing legislative proposals in the course of this year. in this context, the commission will examine measures to reduce excessive dependence on external ratings, improve transparency, promote competition, introduce the principle of liability and reduce the risk of potential conflicts of interest due to the issuer-pays payment model. we know that these are very complex issues and we want to be sure that we address them correctly. in this context we have looked with great interest at mr klinz’s own-initiative report which covers the topics we are currently reviewing and makes a very big contribution to our legislative initiative. last but not least, at a global level, in october 2010 the financial stability board issued a number of principles aimed at reducing the dependency of financial institutions on credit ratings. in accordance with these principles we intend to introduce measures against excessive dependence on ratings in our forthcoming legislative proposal for the banking sector, the so-called crd4.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 june, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs angelika niebler, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the guarantee of independent impact assessments (2010/2016 (ini)) (a7-0159/2011).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. let me perhaps first introduce the subject with a few examples. greece and other countries are heavily indebted, despite the fact that for many years billions of structural funds have been flowing into these countries. how can the use of these funds be improved and how can their use be better controlled? the second is euro bonds. what are their implications for the european budget? thirdly, if we were to introduce a financial transaction tax in europe, what would be the consequences? in all these cases, parliament calls for a so-called impact assessment of legislation in its reports. because we need facts to make politically correct decisions. this is also the subject of my report on improving the guarantee of independent impact assessments. the subject is not new. this issue, together with the surrounding issues of better regulation, has been a concern for over a decade. but despite all the efforts made by both the commission and the european parliament to improve its impact assessment, the quality of the assessment still needs improvement. my report makes suggestions for improvements both in relation to the european commission and the impact assessments carried out there and in relation to the impact assessment studies carried out by parliament. the content of the report: the report is divided into four sections. the first step is to formulate general requirements for impact assessments at european level. the second section then summarises the proposals to the european commission and identifies areas for improvement. in the third section, i will focus on the following: how can we further improve the european parliament's impact assessment toolbox? other the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards the general requirements for impact assessments at european level, it is important to note that we need to move from a purely cost analysis to an examination of the economic, social, economic and health impacts of legislation at european level. secondly, i think it is important that we do an sme test in all regulatory impact assessments and also look at the impact on industrial competitiveness in europe. thirdly, in this report we propose that the commission publishes roadmaps for legislative proposals very early on, in order to give parliament and the interested parties the opportunity to express their views in the course of the consultation. as regards the european commission, we particularly urge that the so-called impact assessment board, which was set up in the commission some time ago, be filled independently, that parliament's committees also be involved in the work at an early stage, and with regard to parliament, it is important for us to use this instrument for the assessment of the impact of legislation. so far, the individual committees have been doing this, but i think we need to include this instrument much more in our discussions in parliament. and if we manage to build up parliamentary resources and establish an autonomous structure under the leadership of members to develop a methodology that allows us to carry out professional impact assessments of legislation in the european parliament, then i believe we have achieved a great deal with this report. i hope you will support me in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, i apologize for taking the floor again, but i think there has been a bit of a mix-up because the members are not discussing my report at the moment but the report on social responsibility which will be called for later. perhaps we could first - i believe mr baldassarre has also spoken on my report - conclude the debate on impact assessment and then we can move on to the next report.
i would like to thank you very much, mrs niebler. so, gradually, i began to see the problem. we have a little internet problem. i don't have a proper list of speakers either. the report by mr klinz is still on the display. that's probably why the colleagues were a little irritated. we are therefore with mrs niebler's report on the guarantee of independent impact assessments.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the report, as it supports our smart regulation agenda and aims to strengthen the shared responsibility of the eu institutions in this area. the commission also welcomes the fact that the report supports some of its suggestions addressed to the european parliament through the smart regulation communication, but we also know about the few highly problematic proposals. the commission has already made clear in its smart regulation communication that it cannot and will not accept requests that would affect its autonomy in carrying out impact assessments – for instance the externalisation of the impact assessment board – or that would otherwise affect its right of initiative. let me recall that the european court of auditors, in a recent special report on impact assessments in the eu institutions, has confirmed that the commission’s impact assessment system ‘has been effective in supporting decision-making within the eu institutions’ and in raising the quality of our proposals. the court of auditors also found that the commission has in place the structures needed for smart regulation and that the impact assessment board clearly helps to raise the quality of our impact assessments. the commission will take a position on the report after the adoption of the resolution.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 june, at 12 noon. i ask all colleagues to be lenient with the imbalances that are now occurring because the display is not working. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr richard falbr, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the external dimension of social policy, promotion of labour and social standards and corporate social responsibility [2010/2205 (ini) ] (a7 0172/2011).
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of my colleague lászló andor, i would like to welcome the fact that the motion for a resolution for discussion today addresses so many crucial aspects of social policy’s external dimension. the commission firmly supports closer cooperation at global level, with employment and social objectives going hand in hand with economic objectives. in particular, we support the continuation of discussion and the coordination of efforts within the g20. in this connection, the preparations for a g20 labour and employment ministers meeting provide a good example of the increased cohesion emerging at world level. the commission also supports close cooperation with and among international organisations, which – and i am quoting the oecd and the international labour organisation – is vital for achieving a level playing field internationally and, in particular, for setting international labour standards. the 100th session of the ilo began last week: it will focus on a new ilo convention on domestic workers, an issue which this house discussed recently. social protection, including the development of the social protection floor initiative, is another area of interest for this year’s ilo conference. we will closely follow the discussions on implementation of the labour standards enshrined in the ilo convention, and i would point out that the commission welcomes the emphasis in today’s motion for a resolution on the need for the eu to promote the ilo core labour standards and the decent work agenda worldwide, including gender equality and non-discrimination policy as a cross-cutting issue. the commission will also continue to promote sustainable development, decent work, labour standards and corporate social responsibility in other policy areas, such as trade and development policy. in 2011 the commission intends to present a communication on corporate social responsibility outlining proposals for further action at international level, including promoting cooperate social responsibility in relations with partner countries. in our view, the involvement of enterprises is also essential, in order to address issues such as youth employment, training, workforce skills, health and diversity, responsible restructuring and local development, especially given the current economic and social difficulties facing europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 june, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr gay mitchell, on behalf of the committee on development, on regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation: lessons learned and prospects for the future (2009/2149 (ini)) (a7-0187/2011).
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes parliament’s remarks and suggestions. i am pleased to see that we agree on the majority of issues. most of all the commission appreciates that the continuing dialogue in the context of democratic scrutiny has produced very good results. we only regret that parliament does not feel that some of its resolutions on programming were respected in every detail, although the commission has taken full account of parliament’s view wherever possible. regarding cooperation on global public goods, the commission would point out that, in general, this may meet the criteria of official development assistance (oda) and the eu should therefore continue financing oda-related cooperation on global public goods under the development cooperation instrument (dci). nevertheless, a separate partnership instrument will concentrate on cooperation of eu interest and will be complemented by a thematic programme addressing civil society organisations and local authorities. likewise, projects financed under the thematic programme for migration and asylum generally count as oda. thematic cooperation programmes such as ‘investing in people’ will continue to address all the millennium development goals, as we must not neglect the interrelationship between them. while budgetisation of the european development fund does not currently seem feasible, the commission nevertheless intends to pursue the issue with member states, taking into account, primarily, the objectives and principles of the cotonou agreement. with regard to the use of delegated acts, the commission refers to president barroso’s letter of 7 march 2011, indicating that a new architecture will reflect the new institutional context. one important element will be flexibility in the programming process, so that funding and priorities can adapt to today’s rapidly changing world. this could be done by the introduction of significant elements of the delegated acts procedure, fully respecting the criteria established in article 290. in conclusion, the commission welcomes parliament’s report. it constitutes useful input in the preparation of the follow-up instrument to the dci under the next multiannual financial framework.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 june, at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by diana wallis, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on options for the introduction of a european contract law for consumers and businesses (2011/2013 (ini)) (a7-0164/2011).
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs diana wallis, together with hans-peter mayer and sirpa pietikäinen, for the excellent work on this dossier. it is very clear that, in the wake of the global economic crisis, the internal market needs to be boosted. we need the internal market if we want to have growth, job creation and innovation. what is the current situation? only one in four businesses trade across borders and those who trade limit their operations to only a few member states. that means they miss out on the possibility of utilising the internal market. what are the consequences for consumers? well, they do not reap the benefits of the internal market either. many cross-border orders – as many as 61% of the orders on the online market – fail to be completed for this reason. that means that we have here a non-functioning of the internal market both for businesses and for consumers. that is the reason why the commission has launched a consultation on policy options in the field of contract law, in response to which parliament is giving its opinion today. we have seen that internal market failures are due in part to the differences in national contract law. we agree that there are other reasons for failure, but our recent eurobarometer surveys show that contract-law related obstacles rank first out of eleven obstacles to business-to-consumer transactions. that is why we need to get rid of those obstacles, one by one, starting now with contract law. by the way, this parliament has been discussing this for ten years but the experts outside have been discussing it for 30 years. so all the work done to analyse and make proposals is there on the table. we have never taken advantage of this. that is why i agree with the rapporteur that it is time to act now and to see what positive action we can take. i have taken note of the assessment of the report on the policy options presented in the green paper and the support for the innovative solution of an optional instrument, which means no harmonisation but giving consumers and businesses a choice of having a europe-wide system. i have also seen the support for an instrument applicable in both b2c and b2b transactions, which favours a material scope covering sales contracts, contracts for the supply of digital content and some service contracts. i have taken very good note of what has been said by the parliament, namely that any future instrument, whatever it looks like, should give consumers a high level of protection in order not to deprive them of the protection they would otherwise enjoy under national law. that is a conditio sine qua non. if we do not have that, we will fail in all of our activities. where do we stand at the moment? on 3 may 2011 the commission published the results of a feasibility study by the expert group on european contract law and we invited all stakeholders to comment. the commission is analysing the results of the public consultation and then it will prepare a detailed impact assessment to see what should be the next step that, in times of crisis, will be good for giving a boost to the internal market and creating growth and jobs in the internal market by expanding the markets, mostly for smes, and giving consumers the possibility of better choice and better deals.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 8 june at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs nadja hirsch, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on european cooperation in vocational training and training in support of the europe 2020 strategy [2010/2234 (ini) ] (a7-0082/2011).
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. we will vote tomorrow on the role of vocational training in the europe 2020 strategy. it is worthwhile to take a brief look at the situation from which we are starting. we have a youth unemployment rate of 21% at the moment, almost double the normal average. we have a school drop-out rate of over 14% in the eu. we still have very low participation rates for women in the workforce. many people with disabilities, but also those with a migrant background, are also excluded from the labour market. the europe 2020 strategy aims to unlock this potential of workers and bring them into the world of work, so that the eu can also respond to globalisation. it is therefore our task to ensure that initial vocational training is of high quality. the debate has begun in the context of the copenhagen process, followed by the bruges communiqué, and it is now up to us to see how far this area can be included in the europe 2020 strategy. a key point is that young people have the opportunity, not only in their studies but also in their vocational training, to complete part of their training in another eu member state. this is a key point because someone who has already worked in another eu member state will then have the opportunity to consider the european labour market as their own labour market with the corresponding offers. it is a very central point to be pursued. the second major area is, of course, the area of continuing training. the demographic change means that people have to work longer hours - or they can work longer hours, that is for each person to decide. people are getting much older, they are going to be in the workforce for much longer, and to continue to be able to do well-qualified work at a slightly older age, they also need to continue their education. we have a very low percentage of participation in continuing training at the moment. here too, attention must be paid to the fact that there is and is growing a willingness on the part of both employers and employees to take up further training and to continue their education in lifelong learning. of course, this also requires flexibility in the offers. we all have to imagine that continuing training must take place alongside work, alongside family. in this respect, it is obvious that flexible offers will have to be created in future. the university sector has received a great deal of attention bologna process and we are facing a similar situation in the field of vocational training, including mobility. you could almost say that no one noticed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank you again for the very dedicated cooperation with the other groups.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur ms hirsch for her very constructive approach. i have listened to her with great interest because that was actually my dossier 12 years ago. i started to bring about the mobility in training which was not on the agenda at that moment, and i am very glad to hear how strongly parliament is in favour of developing this essential element in the europe 2020 strategy. i would also like to say how much we welcome the report, which reinforces and complements the commission’s communication of june 2010. this communication was an input to the latest review of the copenhagen process, and the bruges communiqué has now of course become the european agenda par excellence for vocational training for the years 2011-2020. many of parliament’s suggestions correspond with the actions proposed in the bruges communiqué. the commission shares parliament’s view because we need to modernise vocational education and training in europe to make it attractive, to have qualified teachers and trainers, innovative learning methods and high quality infrastructure and facilities, and of course we have to have the mobility. we have to give the will to young people – and to less young people – to go outside their member state in order to get the experience which is important if we want to have a real european education and training area. the commission also aims to attain gender balance and to help disadvantaged groups through the lifelong learning programme, notably through the leonardo da vinci programme, which is included. so all the help which the commission can get from parliament is most welcome.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 june 2011, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i welcome the report on european cooperation in vocational training and would like to stress the importance of promoting lifelong learning through initiatives and pan-european programmes to enable workers to have a better future. workers today are exposed to frequent and risky job transitions. it is about many types of transition: from training, dismissal, internship or precarious employment to full-time employment. important points included in the report include increasing the proportion of women in working life, recognising 'informal' learning and promoting languages with the aim of mobility programmes. i am particularly pleased that the focus is on the education and training of young people, and i will be working towards this in the other flagship initiatives! the transition between education and working life must be as smooth as possible and tailored to individual needs. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. social background should not determine educational opportunities! young people need support to ensure their entry into the world of work. but modern labour market policy must not be carried out at the expense of the workers!
the agenda includes the commission's statement on the ehec outbreak in the eu member states.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank all of you for this opportunity to inform you about developments in relation to the outbreak of e coli. i am very concerned about the heavy burden of death and disease that this food-borne epidemic has caused the european population and want to take the opportunity once again to express my condolences to those who are suffering as a result. in this context i have to note that the situation is still evolving. there are now over 1 672 shiga-toxin-producing e coli cases, and serious complications have developed in at least 661 people. according to the latest information, this outbreak is responsible for 21 deaths in germany and 1 in sweden. sporadic cases are reported in 11 other member states. switzerland has also reported 15 cases and the united states 4. the epicentre of the disease is still the area around hamburg in northern germany. most of the cases reported outside germany concern either german nationals travelling or persons who visited this part of germany. so what is the european commission doing to tackle the outbreak? first, we have immediately activated all our networks responsible for managing crises. the networks are in daily contact and allow for the timely exchange of information, laying the ground for rapid action. the commission holds almost daily meetings with your public health authorities and food safety authorities to discuss the evolution of the outbreak, the health measures taken to prevent infection and the treatment of affected people. the early warning and response system and the rapid alert system for food and feed have provided a solid basis for exchanging information. second, we have asked the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) to do a scientific risk assessment, which is being updated regularly as the situation evolves. we now have an eu case definition which will allow member states to share the same approach on the investigation of the outbreak. patient questionnaires for outbreak investigations are being collected and compared by the ecdc. the ecdc has also developed, together with the european food safety authority, advice on preventive measures addressed to the public. this advice is now available in all official languages on the commission website. we have asked the ecdc to urgently set up a platform to exchange best practice on treatment, involving both member states and professional societies. our food safety eu reference laboratory in rome developed in record time a method which reduces the time needed to detect the e coli bacterium in food from about six days to 48 hours. finally, let me stress that public perception is extremely important. in this regard, the commission draws up daily updates, shared with the health security committee communicators’ network and food safety authorities. in addition, the commission keeps its website dedicated to this outbreak up to date. i would strongly urge members of the european parliament to support this science-based communication to the public, in order to reduce unnecessary fears and to reinforce our common efforts. i can assure you that the commission, together with these agencies, is working very hard with national health and food safety ministries to support them in containing this outbreak. to do that, we need to pursue intensively the investigation into the source of contamination; the work is taking place as i speak. during the health council yesterday i asked germany to reinforce surveillance, outbreak controls and measures in order to identify the source of the outbreak and halt the spread of the infection. i also asked that the causes of the contamination should be swiftly dealt with. the german authorities accepted the commission proposal to dispatch to germany experts in epidemiology of food-borne diseases from the commission, the ecdc and the efsa. on sunday 5 june the experts started their mission to assist german authorities with the ongoing epidemiology, verify the results and contribute to the ongoing investigations to identify the source. as we all know, the initial suspicion raised by the german authorities that cucumbers from spain were the cause has not been confirmed by any test results available. on sunday 5 june the german authorities notified the european commission that, based on the epidemiological investigations, they believe bean sprouts are the possible source of the e coli outbreak affecting mainly the northern part of germany. the information was transferred immediately to all member states through the rapid alert system for food and feed. the commission follows any new development closely, and will decide on the appropriate course of action the moment laboratory tests confirm any epidemiological finding. we do not have any results to date. here i should stress that it is crucial that national authorities do not rush to give information on any source of infection which is not proven by bacteriological analysis, as this spreads unjustified fears in the population all over europe and creates problems for our food producers selling products in the eu and outside the eu. while such intensive investigations are going on we must be careful not to jump to premature conclusions. in this respect i want to refer to the latest information coming from germany regarding the suspicion that sprouts may be the source of contamination; it noted that laboratory tests have not been concluded and that consequently premature conclusions have to be avoided. this illustrates that it is important for the member states to introduce well sustained and scientifically based alerts into the rasff and to trigger the rasff when member states are confident regarding the scientific evidence supporting the alert notification. you have to act quickly and decisively in order to preserve the internal market. if we manage to do this, then we can learn from the lessons of this crisis and continually improve our systems. i have been repeating: our system works. we need to learn lessons as we go along. i believe that this is our responsibility: to be flexible and to be fast in adjusting our processes and procedures to respond to these types of incidents. coordination and clear lines of information and communication remain the core of our ability to be effective in such situations. we have to learn lessons on this front. before closing, i would like to raise briefly two more points. the first concerns references to bans on certain products. i would like to stress again that the outbreak is limited geographically to an area surrounding the city of hamburg so there is no reason, as of today, to take such measures at european level. in the light of this and of the steps towards the identification of the source, we consider any ban on any product as disproportionate. finally, i am also very sensitive to the financial impact that this crisis is having on farmers, particularly vegetable producers. this is why i am working closely with my colleague commissioner cioloş to address the hardship faced by this group of our citizens that has also been hit by the outbreak. in fact agriculture ministers are holding an extraordinary council meeting today to address e coli. as i finish talking to you, i will head back to brussels to be with my colleague commissioner cioloş during this extraordinary agriculture ministers’ council. in addition, we are in constant contact with third countries, in particular russia, to ask them to lift their ban, which is considered disproportionate. the commission is working hand in hand with the member states with one common goal: to bring this outbreak to an end as soon as possible. i am insisting to all concerned that, in situations like this, it is not a local problem, it is a european problem. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank commissioner dalli for having first of all turned his attention to the patients. i want to do that, too. hundreds of people are seriously ill. the medical staff in northern germany are really struggling to the limit. 22 people have died. in the council yesterday, a representative of another member state, luxembourg, said that economic damage can be repaired, but not human lives. so first of all, i want to ask for understanding that you warn, even if you are not 100% sure where the source is and only have a suspicion that you will then make this information public. still, of course, we must find the source. i see that many staff in the authorities, also with the support of efsa - thank you very much to the european institutions, to commissioner dalli, that the european union is also helping with the information - are working really hard on this. however, i cannot stand here as a german member of parliament and say that everything is going well. there were some problems in crisis management. for example, the health senator of hamburg has informed the public. this was true even though the spanish cucumbers were not 100% certain. the spanish cucumbers had the ehec pathogen on them, and it doesn't belong there. the spanish colleagues must know this too. but first the public was informed and then much later, hours later, half a day later the european commission and the spanish authorities. that wasn't right. we in germany must also think internally about how we can do this better. but together we really need to focus on the fact that the enemy is not in spain or germany, but the problem of the pathogens that we have to make real and fight. one last thing. we have adopted a resolution on antibiotic resistance at the last plenary session. and even though this pathogen should not be treated with antibiotics as a priority, we have the problem that it is resistant to many common antibiotics. this is a long-term issue which we must now tackle even more urgently. because the next time, the pathogen may need to be treated with antibiotics, but because it's resistant, it can't be treated. we'll have to work on that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not commissioner, you have said it right: there are too many dead and too many sick people to be blamed for this ehec virus, and i think that the situation we have got ourselves into also shows that neither germany nor the european union is prepared for an ehec spread such as we are now witnessing. the simple comparison with some other countries makes it clear that we could be better. i would just like to take the example of the united states again. there's been a great deal of research since the 1980s, there's a reporting requirement, there's a centralized disease control agency in atlanta that has extensive powers to intervene directly when an epidemic like this occurs. we in germany, on the other hand, have two federal ministries with responsibility and have obviously not been able to agree on who should take responsibility. we have also got state ministries which want to take responsibility and have to do so, and are obviously overburdened. we're having communication problems between the labs and the politicians. so when science intervenes, when disease control is called for, and when policy acts, it's completely opaque. i can understand a minister, when she gets the information that it is the cucumbers, then warns accordingly, but where is the detail in the vote? where is the real decision-making power? i think it looks as if the sprouts - i say this with all caution - were treated as hastily as the cucumbers. there is a disagreement between scientific knowledge and political action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that's appropriate. i am very grateful to mr liese for raising the question of antibiotics. again, we are faced with problems that we actually already know. but because we are afraid to confront the medical sector and the pharmaceutical industry and the mass animal industry -- there's a lot to talk about -- we're not as consistent as we should be in the fight against antibiotic resistance. ehec and antibiotic resistance are two big problems.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the ehec epidemic reveals the systemic flaws of industrial food production in the liberalised eu single market. when profits are put before health, it is at the expense of food quality and food safety. the ehec agents have so far killed at least 22 people in germany and there are more than 1 500 cases of infection. over 600 patients were diagnosed with the dangerous hus syndrome, which can also lead to neurological disorders. after more than two weeks, the source of infection in this life-threatening epidemic is still unclear. the source of infection would be easier to identify if the food was produced locally and the impact of the epidemic would be more limited. the long transport routes and the anonymous production conditions make it very difficult to trace the origin of food. the traceability of food is essential for food safety. consumers have a right to know how their food has been produced and where it comes from. the federal government in germany has completely failed in the ehec epidemic. the confusion between the länder and the federal authorities has left crisis management out of the question. the supervisory authorities were not prepared for this situation. we need a radical rethinking of agricultural policy. food must be safe. but it is also necessary to protect farmers from unpredictable economic risks. the policy of supporting agriculture and rural areas must be consistently geared to a clear decentralisation of the structures of food production and marketing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ehec is not a new problem, but it is clear that europe is still not sufficiently prepared for such a crisis. it takes too long to get clear guidelines. three weeks is definitely too long! we agree that consumer protection must always take precedence over economic interests. but it is necessary to clarify who warns when, who takes responsibility for the warnings afterwards and when the european commission comes into play. in germany, 16 federal states and 2 ministries are responsible, which is too small a fraction for a european crisis. the european level must be involved earlier. i think we have not learned the right lessons from the crises of the 1990s. we must now make up for that. we need transparency in food and clear traceability of production. we need a clear indication of origin. but we also need a european response force to coordinate scientific and medical work and to draw up control plans. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. farmers can be compensated, but human lives cannot be recovered. in fact, our sympathy goes out to all those who have died or are in hospitals. this situation is dramatic and unacceptable. it is unacceptable that three weeks after this crisis broke out, we still don't know exactly what is causing it. this cannot happen in europe. we have several lessons to learn here. firstly, we will have to look for the source and see whether there are still improper practices in food production or in the food chain. we have legislation that is 20 years old, and the standards and norms in the european union are quite strict, but you can see that we are still vulnerable in the area of nutrition, in the area of food. there still seem to be gaps and shortcomings, and we will have to learn from them again. i also think there's a communications mess here. the communication is not good and not right. we clearly need more europe! that is what colleagues have said. if every regional or national authority issues a warning for all of europe, then it must go wrong. i think the ecdc has done a good job, as far as i can see, but we need a modern, better system of reporting for determining causes and also a better system of informing the public.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr dalli, you and your colleagues in the directorate-general for health have done everything right! that cannot be said of the german authorities. the least we can say is that there's a communications chaos. that's a bit of a stretch. the fact that the german minister of health yesterday did not consider it necessary to travel to luxembourg for a meeting of the health ministers' council, the main topic of which was this serious infection crisis, shows that he has no idea what is really going on in europe, that he is ignorant, does not recognize the problems or is still beset by intra-party political crises. (applause from the centre) i must also point out - mr dalli has said it - that the german authorities apparently thought they could do without experts from the european union and, patronizingly and arrogantly, thought they did not need them. the fact that these experts have only been in germany for three days is also a scandal and we must criticize that here. but at the same time we must say that it is our duty in the european union to warn consumers when a dangerous food is on the market. and i want to be very clear: if there are dangerous bacteria on a cucumber or a salad that don't kill you, that's fine, but it doesn't give me a case for compensation. cucumbers from spain and other countries were found to have ehec bacteria. it wasn't the ones behind the tribe, but it takes time to figure that out. i don't think that's the point either. and those of you who understand the european union and know the early warning system, you also know how the early warning system works. they know that the early warning system requires the product and the name of the manufacturer to be mentioned. but you can read that in the legislation. for me, the real question is: what happens in the future? in the future, we have to ask ourselves: can there still be manure? can there still be production methods that are not acceptable? who controls what, when and with what result in the european union, and who has what obligations to document this? (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. i come from the region in europe where the ehec pathogen is at its worst. the aggressive germ seems unstoppable. since mid-may, 1,733 people have been infected, 23 patients have died agonizingly. the situation in the hospitals is extremely tense. we're running low on icu beds, and we need blood plasma. there's no end in sight. the citizens of my home are afraid of new diseases every day. i think it is a matter of responsibility and courage to warn all the potential carriers of this germ. various food items have been analyzed, but so far, no trace of him has been found. my understanding of quality food is that it's healthy and it's marketed in a controlled way. i am sure that the commission will be able to take account of this. in this situation, however, to claim that one knows the polluter without having a thorough laboratory test on the table is extremely negligent. in the face of all the understandable panic, there must be no witch-hunt, because it will ruin many well-to-do farmers throughout europe. it must therefore be clear to all that we as the european union must act in solidarity with each other and help each other in times of need. that means that on the medical level, all the experts must be brought together, and on the economic level, we must help those who have been in financial disaster for no reason.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. after a long marathon of negotiations, my colleague mr said el khadraoui and the representatives of the council and the commission have succeeded in putting together an improved package of measures for heavy goods vehicle tolls in europe. i am very grateful to those involved and particularly to our rapporteur for what has been achieved. we have succeeded in achieving important objectives set out in the white paper on transport by recognising the principle of internalising external costs, by partially earmarking funds for transport infrastructure and by creating incentives for fleet renewal. i think that the transparency obligations which must ultimately be imposed by the council must not be forgotten. i personally find it very regrettable that, even after the trilogue negotiations have been concluded, some member states have tried to throw sand in the wind through the so-called correlation tables in the truest sense of the word in order to block this directive. nevertheless, i would like to call on all my colleagues to accept the compromise reached and not to jeopardize the results of the long and arduous negotiations, because this would only help the wrong people. in that sense, thank you.
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the white paper commissioner kallas describes various ways in which he envisages the future of transport. he describes the need for incentive schemes to make transport more environmentally friendly and also says that new sources of funding are needed, for example to be able to apply the polluter-pays principle. the eurovignette directive we are discussing today is a way of actually doing both. it was a belgian act of strength, one might say, starting with the belgian presidency of the council with three important belgian actors and above all with the rapporteur who succeeded in opening the door to new ways. i would have liked, however, for this belgian effort to have been more successful than the one we are having now. it's actually a small, soft compromise that we were able to reach. we have now, of course, a very small degree of commitment: 15% of infrastructure costs, 15% of external costs have to go to ten-t networks. that's not enough. all the national transport politicians say that we need substantial resources to maintain our infrastructure networks. of course, the funds earned there should be reinvested in this area. that is a point with which none of us can be satisfied. the fact is that we are nevertheless taking a step in a future expandable direction in this context. that is why we want to agree to this compromise. so it was a tough fight. it could well have been that we had nothing on the table, because some member states would prefer to have nothing. that is why we can say that it is a success. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. transport in europe is too cheap. only the environmentally friendly transport is too expensive. all this is politically motivated and this directive does not change that. we have unfair competition. the tax benefits for the trucks will not be reduced. each truck causes 60,000 times as much damage as a passenger car, but of course it is not asked for 60,000 times. we have had a compulsory railway toll within the european union for decades. for each kilometre of track, each locomotive, whether carrying passengers or goods, must pay a railway toll. the toll on the road is voluntary. it's covered. it is mostly only valid on motorways and it is only valid from 12 tonnes. with the railway, it's unlimited. it is unfair and it hinders the environmentally friendly rail and relieves the environmentally unfriendly road. we know that a change in mobility is necessary to protect the climate. we greens want to protect the climate and secure mobility in the future. that's why we need a fair competition. this eurovignette is only a tiny step towards that goal.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not first of all, i would like to say with a smile that i congratulate us on having all survived the fire alarm and being safely back in the chamber. as a representative of the epp, i would like to ask the president of the commission a question, who is concerned about the images we have received in recent weeks from the mediterranean, where many people have landed in europe, or have not arrived at all, fleeing from conditions in africa. we've had to see images of stranded and dead people on the news. we all know that it is our common european challenge to find a response to this tragedy and to this plight of refugees. i would like to ask the president of the commission, on behalf of the epp group, to assess whether the commission - and especially frontex - has sufficient resources, whether we as the european union have sufficient capacity to react on the ground and whether we have sufficient legal bases for europe to act together in the mediterranean. i would also like to know how the talks with the countries of origin - tunisia, egypt, for example - are going and whether we as europeans are making good progress in this area.
president of the commission. − mr weber, we all regret recent events that have caused the loss of many lives. i agree with you on the need to take more decisive action in this field. there was an immediate response to assist the countries in north africa – more than eur 1 million for humanitarian assistance – and this assistance will continue. through the hermes joint operation, the frontex border agency is coordinating a response to the strong migratory pressure. however, it is very important that member states in the mediterranean region, together with third countries, continue to cooperate and coordinate their efforts. more needs to be done. so my very direct answer to you is that, yes, we need more resources for frontex. the proposals to reinforce frontex need to be adopted as a matter of urgency. we also need member states to show political will and, above all, solidarity among themselves by offering the requisite technical and human resources. as you know, the european union as such does not have all those resources, so we need the cooperation of the member states in making them available.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, thank you for your comments. if you say that we need more resources for frontex at the moment, i would also be interested to know if you do not also think that the states have been too unwilling to provide resources to make frontex strong. we had the toolbox. has there been insufficient willingness on the part of the member states to support frontex accordingly?
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr cohn-bendit, it is true that there is a problem of tax evasion in greece, although in my view this is not the cause of the greek structural problem. we are currently working on the fight against banking secrecy. as you know, all the member states and switzerland have since march 2009 committed themselves to applying the oecd standard that states that a state may not refuse to provide information at the request of another state on the grounds that the information is held by a bank or other financial institution. this principle was included by us, the commission, in the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, which entered into force on 11 march 2011 and which will unfortunately only come into force on 1 january 2013. the question of banking secrecy is therefore legally settled at european level and cannot prevent a full exchange of information between tax administrations on request. i believe that there is every reason why the member states of the european union should already be giving greece all the information they need on the basis of administrative cooperation in the event of tax fraud or evasion.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr barroso, i have just one short question. i am glad that the internet was discussed at the g8 summit and at the previous eg8 forum. people are also concerned about why the powerful are using the internet. we know how sensitive this area is. can you tell us more about that? is this a one-time thing, or is there more to it? will you put that back on the agenda?
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - president sarkozy has, in my opinion, had an excellent idea because the internet is a global phenomenon. we all want an open internet. we believe it's a great contribution to knowledge and to freedom. at the same time, there are sometimes abuses of the internet: certain exploitation, for example of children, crimes committed taking advantage of certain freedoms offered by the internet. so we had a very interesting conversation with some of the great innovators in the internet, from the leader of google to mr. zuckerberg, the leader of facebook, and others. we discussed what the proper regulation of the internet could be, while of course preserving all the freedom and all the potential for innovation that the internet offers. so there was a debate and a confirmation at the end of the debate that this point, the internet, will be on the agenda of the g8 in the future.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am still a little wary of this question and would like to ask you if you would be willing to give us a rough outline of the further negotiations on the internet, because this is an important, decisive measure for the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i apologize for being late. that's why i waited till the end. mr barroso, in view of the serious situation in which we find ourselves in the european union, i would like to ask you the following: the year 2008 was the year of a deep banking crisis. this banking crisis led to a deep economic crisis in the real economy in 2009. the cost of bank deficits being borne by public budgets eventually led to a deep public budget crisis in 2010. this deep crisis of public budgets is accompanied by an orgy of cuts, which, among other things, have led to dramatic situations in some member states of the european union, as a result of measures demanded by the european union. there is a risk that the years 2011 and 2012 will lead to a social crisis in europe, following the banking crisis, the economic crisis and the public budget crisis. so i ask you: is the commission prepared to discuss with us how we can improve the underfinancing of social protection for people, of social security systems in the member states of the european union, especially in those countries most affected by the budgetary crisis? secondly, are you prepared to discuss with us definitively the issue of eurobonds in order to get the money we need to invest in the economy, to enable growth and jobs in the countries most affected?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we all look with great concern to this region of the world and we know very well that the danger of civil war is far from over. the events in abyei show how fragile the peace process that has been launched is still. the conflict that has broken out is dramatic, the north sudanese army has occupied abyei and 15,000 people are fleeing. i think that we as the european union must continue to provide very concrete help and that it must be about starting food aid and humanitarian aid for the refugees as soon as possible and providing emergency humanitarian aid for the refugees. even without this escalation of the conflict, over 40% of the population in south sudan is dependent on food aid. south sudan will be one of the poorest countries in the world and if we want the mdgs to work here, it is imperative that the €200 million provided by the council is actually spent on food security, education and health in this part of the world. we are also calling for the immediate withdrawal of the armed forces of the north and south from abyei, for the respect of the comprehensive peace agreement and for the recognition of the demilitarised zone. the commission is also proposing to extend the mandate of the un to include the democratic republic of congo, which is currently undergoing a process of democratization. we are disappointed that this resolution does not include a very strong call for a debt freeze and a review of external debt. i find that regrettable.
i have to say, madam president, in february many people, including those in this house, were full of hope but also full of concern about the future of sudan. the continuing threat of violent conflict was assessed differently. it was clear that the people of sudan were facing big problems and needed support. now the situation there is making headlines again. the recent events are caused by the unresolved problems associated with the coming independence of the south. and these are problems that cannot be solved by force of arms. i therefore welcome the recent agreement, brokered by the african union, between north and south sudan on a demilitarised zone along the future state border. even a un force of 7,000 men, modelled on monuc, can do more harm than good. and let's look at the congo, and let's see what monuc troops can do. aid to sudan must not be partial and not be guided by interests. the interests of the people of the south and the north must be the main focus. this applies to material aid as well as to diplomatic aid. to prevent the conflict from escalating further, all arms deliveries must be stopped. we demand an end to civil-military cooperation and the military training mission.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i had the opportunity to witness the referendum on independence in south sudan as an election observer in parliament and i was impressed by the strong support of the south sudanese for the future of their country. i also saw the great expectation of the people who saw their country's independence as liberation from slavery. thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of so-called internally displaced persons, who drove the decades of fighting in the south into the refugee camps of the north, made their way to their former home in south sudan. of course, the people of south sudan want to go beyond the independence of the country, above all by living in peace and finding a way to a happier future, after all the decades of military conflict in which millions of south sudanese have lost their lives. on july 9th, the new state of south sudan is to become officially independent, adding to the family of states of our world. the starting conditions are unthinkably bad, as has been said here. 70% of the population lives as nomadic cattle herders, 80% are illiterate, the conflict over abyei is escalating into a military conflict. there were already dead and wounded. as if that were not enough, tribal rivalries and armed groups are increasing in south sudan, and observers estimate that more than a thousand people have been killed since january. the wounded and maimed are barely counted. sudan was one of the failed states. the danger is that the state of south sudan will start as a failed state. i am firmly convinced that, in view of the colonial past of the countries there, there is a great commitment of europe to this region. the european union's common foreign policy is needed here, together with the un and the african union, and it can prove its worth here too. it is not just about money, but also about supporting the delicate, emerging civil society. we must negotiate hard with those in whose hands the fate of the country lies, namely the tribal leaders, the leaders of the military groups, that they do not disappoint the hope of the people in their country.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is time to include bulgaria and romania in the full application of the schengen acquis. remember this: the abolition of internal border controls and the establishment of freedom of movement are among the european union's most important achievements and values. that is why i cannot understand the blockades imposed by a number of member states, including germany, where i come from. it was argued that there was a fear of uncontrolled refugee flows and that corruption had to be fought. i cannot understand these arguments in the light of the comments made. it is a dangerous game that is being played here with bulgaria and romania. that is why we have supported the rapporteur, mr coelho, from the outset, that there must be the same standards for all member states, including in dealing with schengen. we were deeply surprised, as were the other members of the committee, that the council had dealt with parliament in such an impossible way and had even refused to allow us to see the documents at the beginning. the overall opinion is positive. we expect schengen accession to be realised and not to wait until september. i would like to end with a quote from bucharest journalist sabina fati: romanians are euphoric citizens. they look at western europe as a place whose standards they are eager to achieve. turning their backs on them now could lead many to become sceptical of the eu. we do not want that for romania or bulgaria.
member of the commission. − trust can never be commanded, it has to be deserved and earned. we can only try to improve the trust between member states by having a more vigorous governance over schengen; to make sure that we evaluate, not by the peer-review system we have today but through an independent mechanism on a european communitarian basis with the involvement of the european union in order to identify problems or weaknesses in the schengen system very early on and also make sure that we have tools at our disposal to immediately assist member states that are in difficulty. hopefully that should allow us to increase the trust. in answer to the other honourable member, we are now negotiating the framework, so i am not in a position to give you any figures. however, as we do today, we are seeking to increase the independence and the resources of frontex. we are also seeking to facilitate member states’ access to the various funds under migration by simplifying and by making it easier, when it comes to borders, asylum, integration, etc. of course we need to distinguish between irregular migrants and migrants in need of international protection. as you know, the council and parliament are now negotiating to have the resettlement programme in place, and this is also an area where the european commission could look at possibilities for financing quite a lot of it. in relation to our immediate neighbourhood across the mediterranean, in the mobility partnerships: we are looking to include all aspects of irregular, legal and international protection asylum under migration. all this demands a lot of political will and some extra resources, and i will do my best to fight to make sure that there are resources under my responsibility.
member of the commission. − the commission is currently constantly monitoring all the steps taken by the kosovo authorities to fulfil the conditions for the launching of the visa liberalisation dialogue. we have said all the time that there are two key issues remaining in order to engage in such a dialogue: sound readmission, and reintegration policies in line with the eu standards. implementation of the law on readmission and of the bilateral readmission agreements with the eu member states needs to continue in a good manner. there have been two assessment missions in kosovo – in june last year and in december last year – to assess the state of play in kosovo regarding the integration process. these have shown that there is a lot of progress, but there are still some things to be done, and we are in dialogue with the kosovo government in order to help and assist them to do these last things. there must also be progress at the municipal level. we receive regular updates from kosovo, and i also meet with the responsible ministers, and once all these elements are in place we are ready to launch a new mission to go there and see what steps can be taken in order to open the visa liberalisation dialogue. we are not there yet, but there is a lot of progress in kosovo and we are working very closely with the government in order to support them and help them make progress.
commissioner, thank you for your very good answer. i would just like to ask whether you think it is possible for this mission to go to kosovo later this year, or can you not even estimate that? would it not be important that a small country like this, which we are supporting with great effort, should also give its young people the opportunity to really get to know europe? it's completely counterproductive to keep people locked up there. i know you're sympathetic to our opening of the borders. but do you think it is realistic that this mission might still take place under the polish presidency?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank you, mr garriga, and the colleagues on the standing committee on the political challenges and budgetary means of a sustainable european union after 2013, who have done an excellent job in my opinion. i have rarely seen a report as balanced and as reasonable as the one presented by the sure committee. the question of the future financial perspective and its form is a question of the kind of europe we want. what we need is a budget for the next few years that reflects the ambition of the eu and the ambition of the heads of state and government , while also meeting the expectations of our citizens. the european union's direction for the next ten years is hidden behind the seemingly unimportant debates about places behind the comma. we are seeing new proposals coming in at regular intervals on what the european union should do, what it should achieve, what tasks it should prepare for. at the same time, we are seeing that the necessary financial resources are not available. but if we delegate more tasks to the eu, if we expect the eu to finance ambitious projects, and at the same time we reduce the money for them, then we are driving the process of de-solidarity in the european union, because the fight of all against all is being promoted, for example, in cohesion policy. the european union must not allow this kind of disunity, which is already dangerously present within the member states, to continue to exist between the member states. there is the europe that david cameron imagines, or that the dutch government - or at least the party that supports it in the dutch house of representatives - imagines: the europe of ever-further cuts, the europe of ever-further retreat from integration and the europe of renationalisation. you can have that concept. but it can also be said that europe is the answer that we, as a continent, are giving in the 21st century to the economic, ecological, financial, monetary and migration challenges of a globalised world. we have two options: we can break down our individual parts into orders of magnitude ranging from the federal republic of germany with 82 million inhabitants to malta with 360 000 inhabitants. each for himself then europe becomes irrelevant. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what we need is the strength of the 500 million people in the community and the 27 countries in the community! then we are strong! this is precisely what a budget for the next seven years of the financial perspective up to 2020 expresses. it's a good design. i hope that the spirit of the polish presidency, as reflected in the draft polish presidency, the spirit of cooperation, will shape the coming years in europe. the council of ministers is negotiating on an equal footing with the representatives of the citizens in the european parliament on the future of europe's financial and economic situation. we cannot say 'we want a marshall plan for the mediterranean to build up the democracies in north africa' and at the same time say 'we are cutting the eu budget'. we cannot say 'we want to finance the eu budget with 0.8% of gdp' and then demand compensation when our own farmers are affected by the ehec crisis, as the dutch government has done. we want to help the farmers, yes! we must help the farmers! we want to help north africa, yes! we have to help north africa! but then we need a good, balanced, rationally developed, long-term budget, as this report has shown. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 159 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. of course i recognize that right. i only hope that you will also recognize the right of the dutch government's position not to be announced ex cathedra but to be open for discussion in a multinational democracy. i have the utmost respect for mr rutte, who is in favour of a 2.7% increase in the eu budget. i have noted that and i am glad you have listened to me attentively, because in this parliament the positions of all governments are openly discussed. i do not understand the point of your question, but i thought i heard that you too are committed to democracy. that's progress, after all.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i am convinced that the preservation and development of the european welfare state model and the european solidarity principle are of enormous importance, especially in times of crisis and austerity. both are cultural achievements of europe, and abandoning them could, in my view, mean the end of the european social integration process. i am sure you have listed many important challenges, including those beyond the europe 2020 strategy. but i do not think that the tentative 5% increase proposed will be enough. as a parliament we should make it clear that we want to promote social europe in particular. other things, like earth, frontex, iter, they can wait. i think it is wrong to invite the council to set negative priorities, i.e. to cut back. it is nevertheless true that this report is a serious start to the parliamentary debate on the reform of the own resources system. the introduction of the financial transaction tax in particular is a matter that must be tackled at last. this is not just a useful funding instrument, but also a means of increasing transparency about how the eu is financed. it is, of course, an important part of financial market regulation. i think that the abolition of the uk rebate and the return of unused eu funds to the eu budget are also right.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. - mr president, i have to say something. cohesion policy is one of the largest single budgets in the european union. we must develop a modern policy to meet the new challenges. we want investment in modern infrastructure, we want investment in research, innovation and development of new technologies. we want sustainable integrated urban development, and we want well-educated skilled workers. we need specific support in the regions to make them competitive and to develop them economically. but at the same time, it must be said that all regions must have access to cohesion policy, eastern european member states as well as the strong german economy. east germany needs support, but in west german regions too we need european help, just as in the united kingdom. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must strive to improve efficiency and transparency, and we must combine this with a reduction in unnecessary bureaucracy. cohesion is about solidarity. but cohesion is also economically sound and necessary. lack of cohesion is also bad for strong economies. so let us provide the appropriate financial resources for cohesion policy. i would like to thank the rapporteur for including the opinion of the committee of the regions in his report and i would ask for support for the proposal to improve the intermediate categories once again. we have found a compromise in the committee of the regions and i would very much like this house to incorporate this compromise, which the political experts have found, into the garriga report. i ask for broad support for this.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the present report is a fair and reasonable proposal from parliament to the commission and the council to develop the budgetary foundations of the european union in a difficult period. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr salvador garriga, and the chairman, mrs jutta haug, for their work. you both did an excellent job. and despite all the political differences we have between the groups, the work has been characterised by a struggle for common european solutions. other institutions could use a little more of this spirit. we want real equity, as the contract says. without prejudice to other revenue, the budget shall be financed exclusively from own resources. so we're being fair when we ask for this. and by the way, no more of these strange, targeted discounts! the debate should be conducted in a fair and open way, with less foam on the lips than in some capitals and commentaries, and with the colleagues of the national parliaments. we want to maintain the unity of the budget and not to see budgetary policy transferred from the community budget. when we talk about expenditure, we must also talk about the obligations arising from the treaty of lisbon. we have to finance the eu 2020 strategy, to which we are all committed, sufficiently. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts in the field of the environment. we need to talk more than ever about european added value and the necessary synergies between the national budgets and the eu budget, because, without prejudice to the savings potential that we have in the eu budget, of course, much of what we need in addition can be discussed in the context of a real debate on synergies and savings potential between the eu budget and the national budgets. the council must be made clear that if it does not want to follow the path we are showing today, it must tell us which political priorities it is withdrawing from the agenda and refusing to finance. it is part of the honesty towards the citizen. i hope that the commission will respond positively to these proposals of parliament in its legislative proposals, and i hope that the coming presidencies will find a way of talking to parliament openly and transparently so that we can successfully complete the consent procedure in due time. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd be happy to answer that question. i am not only a member of the cdu, but i have also been the deputy chairman of the cdu in schleswig-holstein for 13 years. before this committee has taken a decision, we have decided on the position of the cdu/csu members in the european parliament. and the statement on own resources which the cdu/csu members of the european parliament adopted as their position, which is in some contradiction to the national position, is completely in line with what the sure committee said. and i stand by that, including in my political responsibility as a cdu politician in germany.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin with the statement by mr ashworth, who played a smarter european budget against a higher budget. i think that's the wrong alternative. in fact, we must have a more intelligent budgetary policy, by identifying precisely where money can be saved, where management can be improved, where administration is particularly reluctant. but the task of this special committee was to determine how much money we needed to deal adequately with the new political challenges. so it's about reform appetite, it's about political courage, and it's about positioning ourselves in a way that we have the ability to respond to the big challenges by 2020. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it makes the european union stronger, it makes our financing system more transparent. the citizens will have a clearer idea of where the money is to come from. i would add from a green point of view: we think in particular of the financial transaction tax because it regulates financial transactions and gives us new opportunities to make smarter policy. so this is a way forward which would not strangle the member states but would open up new possibilities for us together. i think that mr verhofstadt is right when he says that we must of course be prepared to tackle common tasks such as the establishment of the european external action service, but also to make savings at national level. of course, not to leave one and add the other. no, european responsibility means that national expenditure is reduced in order to pool it at european level. why would you do that? because we are stronger together, because we create european added value that is good for our citizens - especially in research policy and education policy. the great challenges ahead of us are the ecological transformation and the construction of intelligent energy networks. we need money for that, just like we need money for rural broadband. these are the tasks of the future, and for this we need a smarter and higher budget. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
mr president, i think you are making a dramatic political mistake. if we in europe fall back on a political thinking which says 'back to the nation', we destroy 50 years of work on the european project. what we're doing here is not a waste of money. where there has been corruption and money scandals, we must fight them decisively. we're on your side, of course. but when it comes to creating european added value, which we have already created in many areas, we must develop it together, because nation states are weaker in international competition on their own. they will not be able to produce good effects with 27 nation states alone, but only if we join forces. this is what the founding countries understood after the second world war. we should keep working on it, not destroy it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. one year ago, the plenary decided on and gave a mandate to the special committee which was to draw up the european parliament's position on the next financial perspective. now, exactly 11 months into the project, the sure committee is presenting its findings. it was a task which required disciplined concentration and which could only be accomplished by a working method based on openness, solidarity and mutual trust. i would like to thank all the colleagues involved in the creative process. our report, which was drafted under the chairmanship of mr salvador garriga polledo, is a really good result. it can be seen! but we all know that to achieve good results, we need not only good members of parliament, but also good staff. we have not only had them in our personal assistants and our group staff, but we have had them in an excellent secretariat. this super team, led by monika strasser, was not only competent and professional, it was particularly interested in work beyond the normal, it was patient and creative, it was top organizational and yet spontaneous and flexible. and best of all, it was always cheerful and tidy. obviously, they also enjoyed the hard work. i really thank these nine people from the bottom of my heart! thank you very much. (applause from the centre) from the outset salvador and i had set out to produce a report which could be supported by three quarters of the house. in the vote in committee we even got more than four-fifths in favour. we are happy for you. our demand for a seven-year financial perspective, which is expressed in a structure reflecting the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and at the same time subordinating all policies for the european union to it, and which, moreover, does not include an increase in the european budget in the cloud cuckoo's nest, must also be considered reasonable. it is realistic and feasible. our report contains 174 paragraphs and all the arguments for more europe. for more europe, which we really need. please read it. it is the best basis for persuading the citizens in the local debates and for entering into serious negotiations with the council, which is unfortunately absent today. thank you very much for the great work!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was born into the european union in 1975 and it has shaped my political life to this day. it hurts me all the more today to have to put water in the wine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that the report in its present form, which is ambitious in that it seeks to reach the largest possible majority in the house, is unfortunately not ambitious in its aims and ideas. the agricultural and structural budgets are not affected. but they are calling for more money for research and development. the only answer that comes to mind for the house and the report is more money, without, however, clearly stating where that money is to come from. we are talking about own resources without defining what they are. if we wanted real structural reforms, we could have taken david cameron's proposal, for example, to go to the council and say: 'we are freezing funds, but we are asking for unused funds to be carried over to the next financial year so that we can continue to use them to design sustainable projects and save money.' the eu's future viability is not measured in terms of successor states. i am therefore very disappointed in the report before us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the 5% increase in the budget is justified: foreign service, border protection, counter-terrorism, increase in development aid, money for research and transnational infrastructure. the bottom line is that parliament's demand is absolutely justified. however, with the garriga polledo report parliament is also missing an opportunity. we would be even more credible if we also showed where europe can be more efficient, where it is possible to save money. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of the single market. as rapporteur for the future of structural policy, i would also say that european cohesion policy is also part of this. in this respect, many regions have successfully exceeded the 75% threshold for maximum support. but if there is less poverty in europe's regions, the european community of solidarity can also take a step back. the money saved could be invested more in european added value, for example in a clever link between the structural funds and transnational networks in the border regions. the committee on regional development is currently discussing this, as is the proposal for an intermediate category of 75 to 90% of gdp, which is now being proposed in the garriga polledo report. mrs krehl may be dreaming if she thinks that we have already reached a compromise in the committee of the regions. i do not consider the ad hoc committee on the political challenges and budgetary means for a sustainable european union after 2013 to be the appropriate and competent advisory body for such an intermediate category. we are also making it too easy for ourselves to simply define the richer regions as particularly in need of support. i understand that this is an invitation to waste money. we're leaving the tried and tested phasing-out/phasing-in system, we're just not offering incentives anymore. we guarantee a continuous subsidy for all regions almost up to the average of economic strength. such a system must have no future in european regional policy! that is why we must delete paragraph 73 from the report. otherwise, the report is in order. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
mr. pieper, i'm surprised you're talking about mrs. krehl having a dream. there was a large majority in favour of the intermediate objective in the regional development committee vote. i am convinced that there is a majority for this too, because there is a majority for the solidarity of the regions. to do that, we need this intermediate target. i wonder why you call this majority a dream.
mrs. schroedter, this is your perception of things. we have a different text proposal in the committee of the regions than the one now in the garriga polledo report. that's the one. secondly, there is still considerable opposition to the intermediate category within the political groups. you know that. i am surprised at your question. i would call it a dream if we were to say that we have already found compromises and that they are clear. the committee of the regions must also prepare the report for the plenary. i am very surprised at your very optimistic view that we are already finished.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the reform of the staff regulations is also presented together with the mff package. the question of how the eu is actually managed is dealt with very well in paragraphs 125 and 126 of the report by salvador garriga polledo. i would ask you, commissioner, to show ambition in the presentation of the staff regulations. because the question of what we do, which has been discussed very intensely here, is at least as important as the question of how we do it. the question is what role the european commission will play in implementing all the points in the 2020 programme that we have presented today. i would like the commission to give itself a stronger role and not have to hand over all the tasks to the outside world. it is therefore important that the reform of the staff regulations should free up posts for these new tasks, so that the commission can also take on its responsibilities. we have an overwhelming number of days off. commission officials have up to 13 weeks paid leave. the commissioner, i suggest that you take some of these days off and use them to implement the budget so that we can achieve the policy objectives we want to achieve. i would like to ask that we also have an eu 2020 strategy for the eu administration. it is not just you who are needed here, but the whole house and the president of the commission himself.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make two comments on the so-called eurovignette. i would have liked to have seen a clearer wording to ensure that the money raised was actually used for road construction. secondly, i firmly believe that the rule that member states may exempt small loads between 3.5 and 12 tonnes from the road costs directive will also be respected by the member states. this is because many medium-sized enterprises are active in this sector, which is between 3.5 and 12 tonnes. they can't bear a higher cost burden. and they are often the pillar of labour potential and entrepreneurial potential in our rural areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i voted for the leinen report because i am convinced that by collecting this data in the individual countries we learn much more about the situation in the countries. i have, however, come back because some of the contributions to the debate have stated that we should then only go to these accounts and leave gdp out of it altogether. i want to warn you about this. this is a very dangerous development. the gross domestic product is a sign of economic development and prosperity. and if we don't want to measure it at all or if we want to measure it only by social and environmental criteria, then we are heading for disaster. so all of this can only be complementary to gdp. the gdp must remain the focus, as we decided in the rosbach report. i think that should apply here as well. i would like to stress this again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am naturally very pleased about any economic agreement between two countries or between two companies, because world trade, if it is properly managed, can help to raise living standards and to make progress. on the other hand, i am always very concerned that the large number of bilateral agreements will eventually lead us to lose sight of the fact that we are getting a patchwork of agreements which will make it very difficult for us to achieve a real agreement within the wto. i always think bilateral agreements are the next best thing. the best way forward would really be to continue economic discussions in the wto negotiations and to conclude the agreements that world trade is waiting for and that the world economy needs.
in writing. the fdp delegation in the ep believes that the inclusion of romania and bulgaria in the schengen area will further improve freedom of movement within the eu. having achieved positive evaluation results in all the sub-areas of the schengen review, no new obstacles should now be created that would unnecessarily delay inclusion. it is undeniable that the technical securing of borders does not automatically make them impenetrable as long as there are problems in the judicial and police systems in the fight against corruption. however, this challenge also concerns member states already in the schengen area. the fdp delegation therefore believes that in future, when evaluating the schengen mechanism, criteria such as the fight against corruption must be given greater attention and any wrongdoing punished.
in writing. the fdp delegation in the ep believes that the inclusion of romania and bulgaria in the schengen area will further improve freedom of movement within the eu. having achieved positive evaluation results in all the sub-areas of the schengen review, no new obstacles should now be created that would unnecessarily delay inclusion. it is undeniable that the technical securing of borders does not automatically make them impenetrable as long as there are problems in the judicial and police systems in the fight against corruption. however, this challenge also concerns member states already in the schengen area. the fdp delegation therefore believes that in future, when evaluating the schengen mechanism, criteria such as the fight against corruption must be given greater attention and any wrongdoing punished.
in writing. the fdp delegation in the ep believes that the inclusion of romania and bulgaria in the schengen area will further improve freedom of movement within the eu. having achieved positive evaluation results in all the sub-areas of the schengen review, no new obstacles should now be created that would unnecessarily delay inclusion. it is undeniable that the technical securing of borders does not automatically make them impenetrable as long as there are problems in the judicial and police systems in the fight against corruption. however, this challenge also concerns member states already in the schengen area. the fdp delegation therefore believes that in future, when evaluating the schengen mechanism, criteria such as the fight against corruption must be given greater attention and any wrongdoing punished.
in writing. the fdp delegation in the ep believes that the inclusion of romania and bulgaria in the schengen area will further improve freedom of movement within the eu. having achieved positive evaluation results in all the sub-areas of the schengen review, no new obstacles should now be created that would unnecessarily delay inclusion. it is undeniable that the technical securing of borders does not automatically make them impenetrable as long as there are problems in the judicial and police systems in the fight against corruption. however, this challenge also concerns member states already in the schengen area. the fdp delegation therefore believes that in future, when evaluating the schengen mechanism, criteria such as the fight against corruption must be given greater attention and any wrongdoing punished.
in writing. the fdp delegation in the ep believes that the inclusion of romania and bulgaria in the schengen area will further improve freedom of movement within the eu. having achieved positive evaluation results in all the sub-areas of the schengen review, no new obstacles should now be created that would unnecessarily delay inclusion. it is undeniable that the technical securing of borders does not automatically make them impenetrable as long as there are problems in the judicial and police systems in the fight against corruption. however, this challenge also concerns member states already in the schengen area. the fdp delegation therefore believes that in future, when evaluating the schengen mechanism, criteria such as the fight against corruption must be given greater attention and any wrongdoing punished.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i am for corporate social responsibility towards employees, customers, the environment and society. english: corporate social responsibility (csr). it is a voluntary commitment and it should remain so. in our globalised markets, there is more to it than donating to the local football club. corporations that act responsibly globally shape foreign and development policy. they are europe's ambassadors in the world, making european social standards visible throughout the world. we need to promote csr, not regulate it. europe is in the role of moderator, not regulator. this is the case if the european commission is serious about re-developing csr: no over-regulation! we have underlined this point of view in this report.
in writing. - the garriga polledo report adopted the intermediate category for regional aid in the 75-90% range. i find this area unacceptable, since it also offers the possibility of paying for less-favoured areas in the west of the eu. this is contrary to the very purpose of regional aid, which is to strengthen the weakest.
i have to say, madam president, the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. but i'm listening to the round and i'm listening to the debate. none of the previous speakers - including the critics present - has so far quoted the constitution, has so far quoted a quote that does not fit him very concretely. mr lópez aguilar says that there is a feeling that something is wrong, and others are throwing in the towel all sorts of things that could happen with this constitution. no one quotes from this constitution. the problem we have in this debate is this: where are the real charges? if i imagine today how hungarians are reacting to this debate, to the accusations which some of my colleagues have made here, without citing them, then i can well imagine that some people will find it extremely arrogant to talk about hungary and hungarian development in this way. we europeans should be careful not to be blamed for this. i would also like to say that many of those who are responsible in hungary today are people who fought in the streets against communism and for freedom. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not a matter of party politics. these are the facts. if i am to criticize the absence of a quote, i would like to quote from the new hungarian constitution: 'we are proud that our country has been part of christian europe for a thousand years and we are aware of the role of christianity in preserving our nation.' i am glad that such theses are in a constitution. not everyone in the house will like that. i am glad that this reference to christianity is included, and i would also like it to be in the lisbon treaty and in the european constitution. it is my position as a representative of the epp that this is good.
i have to say, madam president, i have a lot of sympathy for the epp's positions in other areas. we work closely together on economic issues, but on this particular issue, it must be made clear that it is not about party politics. and above all, it must be stressed that it is a disgrace to criticize here that a constitution - and this could be any other member state - is being criticized. there are member states - and i am looking at mr busuttil, for example, because he has made this point very clearly - which ask for help from the european union when they are in trouble, and it is an expression of european solidarity that we help when, for example, malta is having a problem with refugees. but solidarity is based on common values, and it is the task of all the groups in this house to preserve these values. while the charter of fundamental rights only binds european legislation and its implementation, articles 2, 6 and 7 of the treaties bind all member states. the hungarian constitution has cemented a two-thirds majority, so that a future government can realistically no longer change laws. this is a violation of the principle of democratic parliamentarism. the circumcision of the constitutional court is a one-off and threatens the principle of separation of powers. the violation of international law in connection with criminal measures cannot be excluded. there is so much to say, but i would like to make one point in any case: the eu and the european commission have not only the right but also the duty to speak out loud and clearly. europe has been too silent in the past when it came to criticising wrongdoing in member states - long before the european union existed. my country and other countries have had experiences with this. if the politicians are silent, then the citizens will eventually come forward, and then we should ask ourselves whether it is not too late and whether we have failed. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
thank you for asking. so i can be accused of being general for a minute, but i can also be more specific. european values are one thing, but european values include, for example, the fact that a member state is a state governed by the rule of law, and the rule of law includes the separation of powers and the principle of democracy. if, for example, a constitutional court no longer has jurisdiction in budgetary and tax matters, then this is a circumvention of the separation of powers and a very questionable situation. i think that is a very good point to make. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is quite possible to ask whether life sentences without the possibility of appeal or review before the supreme court are compatible with the principles of democracy and the rule of law in the european union. these are questions that can be asked and i think these are things that the commission has to look at. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
i think i should not be blamed for answering a question of knowledge based on a subjective opinion with a subjective opinion. no, i don't think it's the most modern. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
so, dear alexander, you can also extend the time of the speech by asking a lot of questions. but i would like to ask you if you are aware that the rules on the hungarian constitutional court - i don't know if you have read the hungarian constitution as a whole - are almost identical to the rules we have in germany on the constitutional court. that is why i ask you whether the german constitutional court is as undemocratic and as open to criticism as the hungarian constitutional court. i'd like you to answer that.
since you have just said that it is identical only in certain areas, it is clear that there are also certain areas where, in case of doubt, it could be questioned whether it is compatible with the principle of separation of powers that the hungarian constitution, for example, limits the jurisdiction of the constitutional court in tax matters just as it does in budgetary matters. if you were to explain to me that the federal constitutional court would not be able to decide on tax matters, for example following a previous judgment of the bgh, or that an examination of budgetary law by the federal constitutional court would not be possible, for example by means of the organ lawsuit of a party in the german bundestag, i would agree with you. but the german constitution allows this, just as the possibility of bringing an action before the federal constitutional court exists in these matters. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i have a great deal of respect for mr landsbergis. i do not see the question in his speech, however. if that wasn't a question, i'll use the time to make a statement. the right of future generations to be free from violence is not, as far as i know, enshrined in any constitution. that's not the point. it is a question of human dignity - we find this in the german constitution, among others, but also in other constitutions - and there is nothing else in the hungarian constitution. i see no contradiction in that either. the question is whether this will be restricted or extended in the future. but as i said, i didn't quite understand your question. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is compatible with the common market. i believe that this was not questioned by you during your time as president.
no, actually, it's very simple. now that i have heard others say that other member states should go back to their own doorsteps and review their constitutions, perhaps mrs gál - because she has said so explicitly that other member states should go back to their own doorsteps - can quote a constitutional article from a member state of the european union which she would subsume under this category of 'going back to her own doorsteps'. so where is the concrete criticism of the constitution of another member state that should be addressed here? then, of course, we must also face up to this debate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i don't understand this debate. i would not have written the hungarian constitution in some respects as it is. i also disagree with some points in my own german constitution and with some points in the french constitution. but it's not the business of this house, it's not the business of this house. that's the crucial point. unless it is specifically proven that something is in breach of european law. if someone does not like something in a national constitution, this house has nothing to do with it, because it is an expression of national identity and national competence. the commission has already made changes to the media law in hungary because some things were not right, and the european court of justice will take action if laws are adopted that violate european law in the implementation of the constitution. you can even take your case to the european court of justice. that's why i think this is a political show. we have no right to interfere with the hungarian constitution. i would not have done things like that, but it is the right of the hungarians to do it like that.
i have to say, madam president, mr brok, your contribution has irritated me a little. that's why i volunteered to speak. the european union has, of course, powers to verify the compatibility of national legislation with european law. they themselves say that something which is contrary to the european treaties can be settled in court. so why should this house not be able to discuss such a situation? is it not even necessary for this house to discuss this? i think that this shows a tendency to see national constitutions as a field excluded from political debate in the european democracies. if we are in a european democracy, then of course the core elements of our constitutions must also be agreed jointly and should be in line with the international treaties we have all signed. this includes, for example, the convention on human rights, but also, for example, the treaties of the european union, and i think that should be discussed here.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. we are discussing the european arrest warrant today. it's time we had this discussion. we have tabled a question across the political groups, in which we put the reform of the european arrest warrant and its application to the debate and ask the commission and the council to come forward with proposals. the european arrest warrant was the flagship of mutual recognition in the judicial and police spheres. when the european arrest warrant was adopted as a framework decision, the european parliament has always made it very clear that, on the one hand, the conditions for the application of the european arrest warrant are relatively strict, that is to say, it should apply only to really serious crimes, that there should be proportionality in its application and that at the same time procedural standards should be harmonised in the european union. none of these requirements has been fully implemented. proportional application is not the case in many individual cases, as we can see from the reports now before us. we need to adapt both in practice and in legislation. we are now making progress in harmonizing procedural standards for the first time in ten years, also thanks to the work of vice-president reding, but it is essential that we make much more progress, including on conditions of detention and the issue of individual legal protection standards. the future cannot be just cooperation between police and judicial authorities in the area of mutual recognition, but also the creation of procedural standards. nevertheless, the european arrest warrant still needs to be adapted today, as its application is clearly not compatible with the standards we have called for, in particular as regards the proportionality test in individual cases.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. in the debate on the hungarian constitution, it was repeatedly criticized that this was a political debate. i am very surprised at this, because political debates are an express task of parliament, and that is why i want to begin by taking a political view of the subject. crime, and especially organised crime, has never been hindered by borders or border controls. it is therefore not at all sensible to re-establish frontiers in europe and to restrict the growth of our peoples. we need to develop cooperation between our member states and cross-border cooperation between police and judicial authorities. the european arrest warrant has proved to be an important and successful instrument in this area on many occasions. but at the same time, this instrument is discredited when the european arrest warrant is used for example for bicycle theft or for the mere purpose of conducting interviews. unfortunately, we have also had to experience that it is used when, for example, the decision is taken not to execute a warrant because it has been wrongly issued, which is then not respected by the issuing member state, leading to the unfortunate situation that the citizens concerned are repeatedly arrested when crossing the border. this does not contribute to confidence in european legal systems. but why is that? does the text of the directive leave too much room for manoeuvre? is it due to incorrect implementation in the member states or lack of information? these points need to be clarified, member states need to improve where necessary and the commission needs to take measures to prevent these abuses. it is the only way to ensure that a successful instrument is not permanently damaged and that confidence in these measures is not lost. moreover, all these experiences show how important it is that we finally move forward with the procedural rights roadmap. we need equal rights for accused persons throughout europe and binding information on these rights in the interests of legal certainty for all concerned. the commission is called upon to exert pressure on all these points, even against possible resistance, and can certainly count on the support of parliament in this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
a writer. - i do not know whether i should answer your question, which is more of a polemical remark. but the figures show that the european arrest warrant is a suitable instrument to combat crime in the single european area. crime is not national, crime is international and transnational. that is why we must work together across borders. the childish errors and abuses of this european arrest warrant must be combated. but the instrument itself is indispensable.
mr president, commissioner reding and minister györi! the european arrest warrant has, as my predecessors have unanimously stated, proved to be a useful tool in the fight against crime in recent years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. however, despite these numerous successes, the last seven years have also shown that the system is not yet perfect and is not being applied as originally intended. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. for example, the lack of access to legal counsel, the sometimes undignified conditions of detention, and often the extremely long periods of interrogation. the main point, which has been raised many times, is the inconsistent or even inadequate assessment of proportionality by the issuing state. i am particularly concerned about this point because the systematic issuing of arrest warrants, often for minor offences, often undermines the very intention of the european arrest warrant. for example, in poland - and this has been raised - where most european arrest warrants are issued, the judicial authorities simply do not have the power to suspend national proceedings because this is an automatic process. i do not think that is the point. the european arrest warrant is a very important instrument for the protection of individuals and for the prevention of serious crime. it is therefore necessary to examine the seriousness of the offence, the level of punishment to be expected and the possibility of a less complex procedure before issuing a european arrest warrant. the consequence, i believe, must also be that we adapt the existing regulations to the realities. i would be interested to know what steps you intend to take in this regard.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. at first glance, it may seem understandable that russia is shielding itself from the ehec invader. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the overcapacity of the agricultural sector. this too will have to be discussed in nizhny novgorod. but what is more important is the honest assessment of the political germs, the weak germs of democracy and the rule of law. we should do everything within the framework of the modernisation partnership to ensure that these approaches can spread and develop in russia. president medvedev has recognised that economic and technological modernisation cannot be achieved without a fundamental social modernisation. however, his strong words have so far been followed by very weak deeds. that is why eu representatives should make it very clear to president medvedev that the upcoming duma elections are a test of the credibility of his reform policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the elections are held in a fair and orderly manner. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the european union. fair elections begin with the registration of political parties. unfortunately, there are first indications that the russian leadership has not learned anything from the ruling of the european court of human rights on the unfounded dissolution of the republican party and apparently does not want to allow the newly founded people's freedom party. but other kremlin parties and an all-russian popular front initiated by prime minister putin are leading to a political dead end. this sham competition has led the country into political apathy and devalued the duma. president medvedev could make a breakthrough here and at least end his presidency with a demonstrable result. in the case of khodorkovsky and magnitsky in particular, we should not wait for a judgment from strasbourg, but put an end to judicial arbitrariness. the fedotov commission's review of these cases is a correct and first step. the results and conclusions of these studies should be published as soon as possible. the eu and russia will continue to work together to develop a common approach to the issue of human rights, including the right to freedom of expression and the right to a fair trial. because events in north africa in particular show that effective reforms require an active civil society. the russian government should take over the mediation in its own country and seek a partnership for modernisation with civil society.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. russia and the european union are partners based on interests and geographical location. whether we like it or not, it is the case. such a partnership must be constructive and positive. that is why we need to move forward with the partnership agreements and with the visa facilities, to really fill the modernisation partnership with content to move forward there. but we must see that this also creates mutual obligations, including wto membership, that you can no longer do what you want, but that these agreed contractual or international rules bind everyone and that there is no place for arbitrariness in mutual relations. this also excludes, for example, the use of energy as a political weapon. this situation of common interests must be shaped in a positive and constructive way, and in the field of foreign policy, of course, russia must also assume responsibility. we are currently looking at the syrian issue in the united nations security council. in such cases russia has to make a constructive contribution to the creation of a peaceful international society. but it also means accepting the sovereign rights of neighbouring countries and their decisions to enter into alliances that they want to enter into. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and to the development of a common defence policy. we have a shared responsibility in the global world. we see that russia and the european union have a high level of common interests in this global order and that we have to make sure that from this definition of interests russia recognises that democracy and the rule of law are also crucial for internal development. not only does it require a certain degree of conditionality in relation to us alone, but a country which is not a state governed by the rule of law is also not a good place for investment because there is no legal certainty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we hope that the modernization partnership and other matters will help to find a common positive path here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i will only touch on two points because mr swoboda has already touched on many points for our group. yes, russia is facing a turning point. his domestic political situation will be determined by the duma elections in december and the question of who will continue the modernization started in 2012 as president of the state. it can also be expressed in a positive way. there is no better opportunity to strengthen international confidence in russia's development. the conditions for this are fair elections, fair registration opportunities and access to the media for candidates, so that equal opportunities are at least partially guaranteed. the second point is the eu-russia partnership for modernisation. it opens up new opportunities for effective cooperation. we must therefore not miss the opportunity to actively support russia in this modernisation, not only by investing in the modernisation of its economy but also in its society. governments write on paper, and paper is known to be patient. but citizens are rightly impatient when what is written on paper is not implemented. citizens' commitment and the involvement of civil society, entrepreneurs, researchers, young people and artists are essential prerequisites for a self-determined and united society. but such modernisation can only succeed, and with our support, if people can come together easily to learn from each other and share experiences. for these reasons, the eu and russia should finally reach an agreement on what joint steps need to be taken on the road to visa-free travel and how to implement them in order to achieve results as quickly as possible. we're talking about the people in the kaliningrad region, thinking about relief. we decided a month ago in this house that cultural workers should be granted visa exemption. we are discussing whether it might be young people who should be given special consideration. all good ways to get started, but no substitute for a comprehensive solution. that is why i ask the commission to speed up! we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, it is hard to believe that our relations with russia are based on an agreement dating back to 1994. since then, nothing new has been decided. cooperation and confrontation with russia alternate. in the neighbourhood we deplore the war with georgia, the pressure on ukraine, the recognition of mr lukashenko in belarus, the division of the republic of moldova by the transnistrian conflict. but we are also pleased to be working with russia on the libyan question in the security council or on iran's nuclear programme. if we look at russia itself, the new paradigm is the so-called modernization partnership. but what is modernity without democracy? in the list of priorities which you have just presented, mr füle, human rights came after cucumbers and the rule of law after tomatoes. are we not expecting anything more in this area? we expect nothing more from the democratization of russia? i think we as a parliament must make it clear that we expect something, for example fair elections, and there must be progress. i would like to make one point very clear, however: these advances are often to be achieved at the technical level. these two summits a year are unnecessary! make a summit like you did with the americans. there is enough exchange with the russians in the fields of expertise, otherwise there will be summits without content, and that would not be good either.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i was surprised to hear from a man of historical education like mr mölzer that there are historical russian zones of influence in europe and that these include parts of the european union such as romania. the days of the hitler-stalin pact are long gone, and in a democratic world we should be advocating something like a european monroe doctrine, namely that europeans should decide the fate and policies of europe. this does not mean that we do not want a policy of good neighbourliness and dialogue. but here too the meeting place of nizhny novgorod should be a lesson to us, for it recalls the famous story of the nizhny novgorod merchants who thought they could buy their freedom and security and who were hanged. we must realise that we cannot buy security with money, nor with flattering reality, but with an honest partnership. we need a common foreign and security policy. we need energy independence and energy security and less dependence on russian energy policy, which is still used for foreign policy purposes. and we need clear language on human rights. we can't compromise on this. as far as mr khodorkovsky and mr lebedev are concerned, i must say that they must be released at last, otherwise the state visit of the russian president to the european parliament will be seriously hampered. we want a partnership with a russia that is democratizing itself, but for that russia must democratize itself, in reality and not just in our wishful thinking. i therefore agree with mr swoboda that this will be decisive in the forthcoming elections. we will then see whether our partnership with the russian people, to whom we are deeply attached, can be extended to a genuine partnership with the russian state.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very grateful to mr bartolozzi for taking the initiative to bring mongolia up for debate in the european parliament. the former soviet states of central asia are now being treated in parliament from different angles, but mongolia and its situation have received very little response. it was mongolia, very wrongly, that, as a state of the former communist bloc, took advantage of its independence quite early and set out on a path towards the democratization of its society. in 1992, the mongols adopted a democratic constitution and since then several elections have taken place, which, according to observers, have been democratically correct in all respects, which is by no means a given in the countries of the region. the mongolian government has been trying to fight corruption by law for several years, and in 2010 it introduced a moratorium on the death penalty, something that even some large democratic states have failed to do so far. nevertheless, the 3 million inhabitants of this country, which is large in size and subject to extreme climatic conditions, are still suffering the effects of a transformation process. the rural population, which is still predominantly nomadic, is thus moving into the few towns which are not equipped for this. the country's natural resources are not mined in an environmentally friendly way. energy problems make civil and economic life difficult. caught between its big neighbours russia and china, mongolia is in danger of becoming even more dependent on these countries. the efforts and achievements of mongolia - and here i see the glass half full and not half full - in democratizing society should be recognized as exemplary for this region and show what is possible despite a difficult past. the european union should continue to support mongolia, not only through aid programmes but also by having a direct presence in the mongolian capital, with its own representation, as a sign that the fate of mongolia is not indifferent to us europeans and that european interests will not continue to be served by a representation in beijing. i very much regret that the conference of presidents was not prepared to give this matter additional weight by adopting a resolution of parliament.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i speak on behalf of the chairman of the committee, mrs mazzoni, who unfortunately cannot be present. there are certainly more important petitions than this one. we do not have thirty thousand petitioners in this petition, as we do in some of the other petitions currently before the house. it is the nature of the area that is at issue, the local economy in its capacity for development, and it is above all - and i will come back to this later - the uniform application of the law in the european union that has led the committee on petitions to put this question. perhaps a word of caution: the coverage of this case, this elevator project, shows that the local media is very keen to see either one of them in the dust. a lobbyist for nature, a lobbyist for business, local government, or national government. this case is not the place. we were on a fact-finding mission - mrs lichtenberger accompanied me at the time - and the impression that the european union can be a kind of super-audit body is completely wrong. we also have to rely a little bit on local authorities to enforce the law properly. we are now at the heart of the petition. the petitioners argued that the local limit for carrying out an environmental impact assessment of 20 hectares was not respected, but that the project was artificially small and that this 20 hectares limit was in fact exceeded. in the meantime, i might add in parentheses, austria has a 10 hectare limit. so things have changed a little bit anyway. we came to the conclusion that at least the provisions resulting from the environmental impact assessment applied in austria were complied with at that time. i am sure that we can still work out some of the details. but it's not a lot of land that we think should be in dispute. nor is it the case that, as regards the interpretation of certain aspects, we believe that there is a need to reach a different conclusion. so, for example, the question of the snow dams, the question of the parking spaces that will be used for the project and other things. but we have come to the conclusion that we must look beyond the case. we have asked whether the capital has now introduced a legal approach to environmental impact assessment that is correct and in line with our european rules. we are already seeing that not only in austria but also in some other member states, including my own, certain possibilities for design are being identified. the question is whether we should allow projects to be separated locally in all cases. the question is whether we should allow projects to be separated in time, and then say in retrospect that this was already part of an overall plan and should have been considered as a whole from the outset. it is also the case that projects are also separated from the legal structure on the ground, and the question arises as to how exactly our european regulations allow this intentionally or unintentionally and whether we do not have to tighten it up a bit. we have noted one particular point which concerns such installations. could it be that we are allowing skiers, new ski resorts of 1, 2, 3, 10 hectares, which are being developed with new ski resorts or are being burdened more heavily by the extension of existing ski resorts, to be left out of the calculations altogether? i personally believe that, in the light of the european standards, large projects should take account of the total area to be used. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. mr potočnik and i are pleased that we have a parliament which has made monitoring environmental legislation a priority of its work. so is this. and the eia directive is of great importance in the ecological development of the european union. it is an important instrument for us to achieve sustainable development. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. these are types of projects where member states have to decide, on the basis of thresholds, whether an assessment has the effect of requiring an eia. the situation in your ski resort is one of those projects where member states have long since had to decide whether to carry out an eia. the austrian legislation has not been really satisfactory in the past. it was on the order of 10 hectares or 20 hectares and more. after receiving the petition, the commission asked the austrian government how it had ensured that the directive was properly applied in this project. austria replied that no ppa had to be carried out because the threshold of 20 hectares had not been reached. there were official doubts on our part. we have pointed out that the determination of the size of the area and, therefore, the decision on the need for an epc is not only a matter of the area in the narrow sense, but of an overall view. in response, austria amended its eia law - which i believe is the main consequence beyond the individual case. it now meets, in our legal view, the requirements of the european eia directive in all respects. the decision on the need for an eia now depends on the overall size of the extension and whether it is located in a nature reserve. in addition, previous enlargements are now to be included in the evaluation. the requirements of the eia directive are actually clear and strict. the only way to avoid this is to divide projects into tranches, into sub-sections, and not into stages. we attach great importance to the overall consideration of the impact on nature. the ecj has also confirmed our legal position. it has repeatedly made it clear that the objectives of the eia directive cannot be circumvented by dividing projects. as regards the threshold value of the area, the consideration of the parts on which construction activities are carried out is not sufficient. it is about the construction and integration into the environment as a whole. therefore, the threshold must also include areas where no construction work is carried out directly, but which are an indisputable part of the project and part of the project's impact. therefore, we consider that a screening should have been carried out in the mellau-damüls ski area before the extension to determine whether the project requires an eia. this decision should have been made public, together with the reasons for it. the austrian authorities have failed to fulfil precisely these obligations. you failed to carry out the screening we felt was required. the project is in the past, decided five years ago, approved five years ago, construction is already completed. we have therefore requested further details from the authorities in vienna on the impact of the work, including inquiries into whether mitigation measures are necessary and can still be considered. on the basis of this outstanding information, we will examine whether further steps can be taken to mitigate the impact on nature in this overall area. we then asked the austrian authorities to confirm that any future expansion of this or other ski areas that met the criteria of the austrian pra law in its old version would be subject to a screening in order to establish in each case with screening whether and that an pra is necessary. mr potočnik is currently working on a revision of the eia directive. he has, and we have, the intention of presenting a new text which will further strengthen environmental protection, taking account in particular of the areas of climate change, energy and biodiversity, which will also incorporate the current and important case law of the ecj and harmonise and simplify existing procedures as far as possible, and also exclude possibilities of circumvention even more clearly than before. mr potočnik is preparing the new version of this directive and has therefore carried out a wide consultation of the public and the relevant stakeholders over the past year. the evaluation is ongoing and we will present a proposal by 2012. the misuse of this construction project is actually good for the future, because it is based on a clearer formulation of european law, which is not so easily circumvented. we are pleased that the eia law in austria now complies with the directive. the commission will take action to ensure that the austrian authorities address the environmental impact of the work already completed, in order to ensure that future extensions of the ski resort in the mellau-damüls region will properly apply the requirements of this directive. i mean, we all learned from this bad one-off. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. mr wieland has already made the substance very clear. let me add a few political comments. firstly, it is not against, but for european policy, to review existing regulations or directives for practicality or accuracy of purpose and, if necessary, to improve or interpret them more precisely. there will always be competition between european regulations and directives and local design possibilities. the committee on petitions is not a review body, but in the spirit of the self-evident principle how do i see myself as a member of the committee on petitions? i am a little proud that this petition, which we have seen here, is interpreting things on the ground differently from what we would like from a european perspective, and the opinion of the committee on petitions has ultimately led to a law being changed in a member state. i consider this a great success, and a success for european politics too. the general problem i see is also my question to the commissioner: many citizens are concerned about the implementation of european environmental law in the member states. there are a lot of petitions about this. many of them deal with transnational issues, but many also deal with issues within the member states. we have the same problem again and again, when we ask the commission questions during the procedure, we always get the answer: 'we assume that the member state x will implement and apply the existing directives and regulations of the european union in an appropriate manner. we see no need to intervene. we also need an instrument to enable us, in the course of an ongoing procedure, to enter into a serious dialogue with the member states if we receive indications that something is wrong, so that things do not go as they did in this case. it was suboptimal, but it's over, and we have a solution for the future, but unfortunately not for the past.
i have to say, madam president, i am satisfied with the answer, but i would like to have a clear answer on one point. the current rules require that ski slopes are only included in the threshold calculations if structural changes are foreseen in the construction of the facility. and all the areas subsequently used by skiers, black riders or others are left out of the consideration. i think that the effects of using land that has not been left in a natural state should be included. one last little point: in one part of a member state, which we both know very well, commissioner, the committee on petitions has the possibility, in selected cases, of making a case for a so-called stop-gap. i think it would be important if we could agree with the commission and the council that, if we are responsible, we can say that we are going to freeze it. (the speaker agrees to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 149 (8))
to be clear and to counter the impression that has been created, nature is not the property of the conservation associations either. so nature should also be used by the population. i therefore do not think that mellau-damüls was a case in which this stop-gap should have been applied.
the commission has already done so. the european commission shares the concern of the european parliament. i am very pleased about that, but we have been waiting for years for the commission to finally act and to really make a move. we have the report by mr busuttil. the committee on the internal market has repeatedly stressed during the last parliamentary term that we must finally do something to help people. the problem is that people are still waiting for that help. many of the voluntary small businesses affected do not have the financial means and the courage to fight back. i received another letter just last week asking me how i could defend myself, since i could not afford a lawyer to defend myself. i think we must finally give the citizens effective means of getting rid of this scourge.
the commission has already done so. the epp group expressly supports the idea of finally freeing small and mediumsized enterprises from the plague of business directories or lists which are supposed to be of some benefit to businesses but which in the end have no real consequences other than invoices. however, commissioner, you have rightly pointed out that directive 2006/114 provides a legal basis which has apparently not been properly applied in some member states. i therefore hope that the commission will take the matter to its root in the member states where the problem is particularly acute - and from these member states it can naturally spill over into other member states because of the cross-border nature of the entries - and will tackle the problem as quickly as possible with a targeted approach. a wide-angle view is not going to do any good here. the problem is clearly localizable in some member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it seems to me that this is really a european problem. we all - and we hear this from different countries - know the cases. i have a whole stack of these cases myself, and i confess i would fall for most of them myself. the problem is that we have already discussed this several times here, we have directive 2006/114, we discussed the matter in the committee on petitions in 2008 and we have discussed it here in the plenary, and the problem persists, it has actually become bigger. mr oettinger, i heard what you said at the beginning and i have the impression that the problem has reached you. a new commissioner may also have a new opportunity to work in this area. i would ask you to take this problem seriously. it may seem a small problem, but it is economically serious and affects above all small, medium and family businesses, the backbone of our economies and our societies. if we fail to stop this in all member states and to implement the directive uniformly and effectively throughout europe, the damage will be increasing.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. following numerous meetings with various committees of parliament, i am pleased to report to you today on the progress of our ambitious project of a europe-wide stress test, a special inspection of nuclear power stations in the european union and beyond. we suggested to the european council that the safety of all nuclear power stations in the eu should be reviewed on the basis of a comprehensive risk and safety assessment, and the european council decided to do so at the end of march. ensreg the european nuclear regulators in a working group and the commission were asked to develop the criteria, methodology and timeframe for the stress test. the whole event was not easy and was accompanied by comments of all kinds. i can tell you today that we now have test criteria, a methodology and a timeframe that i believe will meet the expectations of european citizens for this stress test. (interruption by mr turmes) i am not arguing with you, mr turmes. "bullshit" is a word you don't like to find in the record, but if it makes you happy, i'll take it. anyway, we fought hard. firstly, there was no willingness on the part of many nuclear regulators to adopt a european test procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the member states are responsible for the energy mix and for the control, authorization and supervision of nuclear power stations. i consider it very important and historic that we now carry out a stress test at european level for the first time, using common criteria, in the interests of the safety of all european citizens. i assure you, i will not be a stress test light. when the outcome of the stress test is presented to the public - results, assessments, proposals, conclusions - you will know more about european nuclear power plants across borders than in all the efforts years and decades ago. i remember very well when, particularly in border areas, citizens often wanted to see the security structures of neighbouring nuclear power stations. this was often very unsatisfactory from the point of view of the citizens. we will know much more in six months or three quarters of a year than has been made public in the last twenty years in terms of data, facts, insights. we're going to run a three-stage stress test. (interruption by mrs harms) now, let's be serious about this early morning, mrs. harms. i'm trying to be objective. i feel that both sides are looking at me critically on this issue. and as a world child in the middle, i feel like i'm in the right place. i was talking about the middle, not the mediocre, mrs harms. please listen carefully. i believe my position will meet your expectations of objectivity. stage 1: it is the ultimate responsibility of an industrial plant owner and operator in a market economy to ensure safety itself, to constantly monitor and report on it. therefore, in the first stage, on the basis of the test criteria agreed at european level, on the basis of our test catalogue, which is public and transparent, every nuclear power plant operator will be asked, as from 1 june, to submit immediately to the national authorities, with the necessary thoroughness and speed - but thoroughness comes before speed - a report on how, in the light of our test criteria and in particular the consequences of fukushima, the nuclear power plant operator assesses his own nuclear power plants and what conclusions he draws. stage 2: a review by the national nuclear regulatory authorities of both the nuclear operators' reports and an evaluation of their own tests and findings. stage 3 is new. peer reviews are the best. we will have our own picture and our own evaluation and our own conclusions at european level in the third stage, not only at the green table and not only by blindly taking over the results from the national authorities, but also with mixed european teams and also with the possibility of going into nuclear power stations. this will be done by european teams, composed of nuclear power plant experts from different member states and commission officials. any step, especially in the context of peer reviews, can only be taken by agreement between the commission and ensreg. this means that no final implementation can take place without the commission's agreement. that is why i can assure you that the seriousness and the objectivity and the thoroughness are important to me. everything is transparent. only where absolute security interests require confidentiality will transparency be affected accordingly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first, all natural events, such as floods, extreme heat and cold, earthquake hazards and so forth. all nature-related risks are included. secondly, i am more convinced than ever that the starting point of the fukushima disaster was a natural event, but that this was not the sole cause of the disaster. i am convinced that the human factor in japan has played a considerable, if not a decisive, role in improving safety and re-equipment before the earthquake and tsunami, and in reducing damage after the disaster. that's why the human factor in the stress test was important to me. i did not get enough support from the nuclear regulators at first. i am grateful to parliament, in particular to the two committees on industry and energy and the environment, for their strong support and for having brought their expectations into the negotiations. we have now reached the point where humans are largely included in the criteria. i make a very concrete distinction. we have achieved everything in the test criteria as far as man and man's failure are concerned. so a mistake, lack of qualification, lack of management in the nuclear power plant or the error of a pilot that could lead to an aircraft accident and accident. that is, humans and failure are fully subject to our stress test. (interruption by mr turmes) mr turmes, you think you can control the whole parliament with your interjections. let me finish my remarks. you'll have plenty of time to talk afterwards. (applause from the right) madam president, the subject is so important to you that i should have at least seven or eight minutes to speak. and by the way, it's your rules of procedure. if you want more time, parliament can decide that. you're a member, i'm not. man and failure are fully included. there was one area that wasn't included: people and crime. that means, deliberate, on my behalf, terrorist attacks on nuclear power plants, whatever form they take, cyber attacks or airstrikes are not the subject of this stress test. and there are two reasons for that: the first reason is purely formal. the nuclear regulatory authorities of a large number of member states are not technically competent to do this and refer us, the commission, to the competence of the intelligence services, the police, the air force, the army and the internal authorities. i think that this is technically correct, but it is not entirely satisfactory. we are therefore now inviting the member states to send their competent authorities to us to discuss with the competent authorities of the member states, just before the summer break, how we can include crimes against humanity in particular. the second reason is that the member states, with some good arguments, invoke confidentiality and have not brought transparency to the discussions. we intend to present an interim report in november. i am also happy to be open to further formal discussions with parliament before the peer review and its implementation. in the end, one thing must be clear: thoroughness precedes speed. i do not agree with the short timeframe which was sufficient in some member states for special examinations. i think that in four to six weeks you cannot meet the criteria for the examination that are important to us. that is why we may need to take a break until spring next year. otherwise, please assume that i am not concerned with the question of whether nuclear power stations are operated, planned, built or shut down. i think that is a matter for the member states. but i feel responsible for safety. this applies both to existing and, where appropriate, planned power stations. i am therefore grateful that our invitation has been accepted at the working level and that the countries of ukraine, russia, switzerland, armenia, croatia and turkey are willing to take the next steps in a common european stress test, in order to carry out a safety assessment that can extend beyond the territorial boundaries of the european union. i shall be glad to report back to you on this matter shortly. i would also like to say that i am also trying these days to ensure that an objectively strict legal framework is found for the issue of radioactive waste. i was a little surprised that the committee of experts, by a very clear majority, did not categorically exclude the issue of exports to third countries. (interruption of the debate) madam president, i am here as commissioner. i have a private party book. please distinguish between the former christian democrat oettinger and commissioner oettinger! i am therefore surprised that the commissioner has voted by a clear majority to restrict export bans. perhaps there is still room for correction on the way to the parliamentary decision at the end of june. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. first of all, thank you very much, commissioner. unlike those who always spread big slogans and create a lot of uncertainty, you made something happen. and that's what makes the difference in politics! i am really getting tired of it - to put it very clearly - that some members of parliament are always loudly and constantly demanding more and more, but are not prepared to contribute. mrs harms, we failed in parliament when we could not even get a resolution on security because you wanted 150% and were not satisfied with what was possible because of the powers. we didn't do our job! you didn't do your job! the commissioner did his job! six months ago, we couldn't have expected that there would be a chance to do such a stress test. we would never have believed that there was a possibility of having a dialogue with countries outside europe on the question of security. it is easy to trumpet how bad and terrible it is and to focus on the question of getting out of nuclear power - all or nothing. it's harder, but it's more helpful for people to get ahead of the game. and what mr oettinger has achieved in the last few months is exemplary. i am not saying that everything is 180% what we could have wished for, and we will only be able to assess whether it is what we wished for at the end. but, mrs harms and mr turmes, we cannot just sit around and whine and interrupt and then say no to greater safety in nuclear power stations when we are called upon to vote. the resolution was on the table here and you said no when you voted, you have weakened the position of parliament, you have weakened the position of the commission too, if we want to have more safety in european nuclear power stations. that's the truth! i'm tired of seeing this hypocrisy here all the time. that's dishonest and doesn't get us anywhere. of course, it's complicated, but everyone knows the law! it's a little bit of a bluff to think you can do whatever you want here. there is a very specific legal situation that must be adhered to. and what has been achieved in this context is highly interesting and important. and while these endless intermittent calls are fun, they're not worth it. (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i have to say, madam president, it is obvious that the aim was not to advance the matter by one millimetre or three metres, but to exchange political blows. we can do that, we were much further along in this resolution in parliament, across the political groups, than we are now. i find it most regrettable that we are now returning to the battle: yes or no. you know that i personally take a very specific position on this matter, but i too have moved and have been prepared to reach a consensus in parliament to achieve greater safety for european nuclear power stations where they are and where they are likely to remain. this is our job! i think that the commission should be able to take a more positive approach to the problem of the environment. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
mr. reul, what are you doing? i take your call for objectivity and honesty seriously. that is why i ask you: where does your aggressive tone come from and why do you accuse the green member of hypocrisy? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because we had this problem before fukushima. and if we all want safety, then it is right to advocate it at all times, and not just when three reactors have melted down.
firstly, i was so agitated because i am still angry that we have not been able to reach a joint resolution on security, because the absolutization of a position was more important than the common position. secondly, i said at the time in the debate - and i say it again here - that i too have learned from this and now see that we must do more, put more pressure on, show more initiative in the area of higher safety standards for european nuclear power stations. that is why i was in favour of the joint resolution and why i am in favour of supporting the commissioner and not attacking him all the time! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
- i'm not going to. i apologize, but i cannot answer that question. i can't speak for the german government. but i think you are right in pointing out that we must not only carefully consider the question of the safety of european nuclear power stations, but that we also have a responsibility to exert our influence on the construction and maintenance of other nuclear power stations as far as possible. the commissioner has indicated that he is working hard to promote what is happening in other parts of the world in terms of stress tests and possible policy changes, and is working to ensure that these higher safety standards are adopted. i think your point is very justified in that respect.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the debate has so far proceeded exactly as i expected, but not as i wished. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today we know even more about fukushima, namely that it was systematically dismissed and that the meltdowns occurred much earlier than the japanese had admitted. we also know what problems there have been in the surveillance systems. but you have made a big mistake today: as a commissioner who is assuming a responsibility here that he does not have, you should have said: 'mrs harms, ladies and gentlemen of this european parliament, i had set myself a great goal, but i have only achieved a small step.' they should have pointed out that there are big problems, namely that the stress tests are only voluntary, that they are only done on paper, and that they are largely in the hands of the operators, wherever they were. you should have admitted that. i could have taken you more seriously. we could have gone on talking about what has been achieved and what has not. what you have just presented, mr oettinger, is basically a strategy which will help to downplay the risks in the european nuclear programme as it stands today. at some point, there will be an oettinger seal on the old reactor, which will certify that it has been checked again on paper, which has been checked many times before. they really have little say in safety. and we haven't gotten much further from that. this parliament has almost no say in nuclear safety because of euratom. and we haven't gotten away with it. i am curious to see how the debate on genuine common safety standards goes. we'll measure you again. this is what we're looking at. what we have achieved so far is extremely meager. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i am sorry, mr chichester, i spoke german, but i did not say a word about germany in my speech. if i had to say something about germany, it would be this: i think it is right that the german government, for example, led by climate politician klaus töpfer, has said: "the inherent risk of the plants is too great and in the event of a disaster unmanageable. that's why we're getting out. i think it is important to bring this up from a german point of view. i didn't mention that in my speech. secondly, japan: in japan, tepco and other operators of nuclear power stations from fukushima to tokyo have claimed that their plants are technically equipped to withstand any earthquake that might occur. the tsunami had also been predicted to be a horror tsunami of this magnitude, and there were warnings about it. i cannot tell you why the iaea did not intervene earlier. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
mrs harms, my question to you is: where is your thanks to commissioner oettinger? where is it? i find the accusations you are making against the commissioner outrageous. it was the commissioner alone who took the opportunity to bring together all those responsible immediately after fukushima and to insist that we should carry out stress tests at european level, whatever the responsibilities. now we have a result that goes far beyond what was done in 15, 20 years ago in tests with european involvement, with peer reviews that are european-composed. i think it is unfair that you are pursuing your own green policy here without being held accountable!
i remember very well a statement made publicly by mr oettinger, he knew that certain plants - i asked which plants they were - in the european union would have to go offline because of the stress tests. i'm waiting for that announcement to come true. i remember that mr oettinger said at the last plenary session that he would not sign what had been on the table for stress tests until then. he signed it, even though there was hardly any qualitative change. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
since we do not yet have nuclear power stations which can limit such an event to the reactor in the event of a nuclear meltdown, i think we should get out of the reactor. i'll admit it, it's not a secret. secondly, we have been - and continue to be - very committed from the outset to genuine technical inspections, including of existing installations, which are geared to the known safety problems. that will not happen, and we regret it. we have fought for high binding safety standards in this parliament as greens. mrs niebler knows what we have failed to do and why we do not have high binding safety standards in europe today. (the president cut the speaker off) ) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
we can talk about it again. but i have a very big problem. i think it is great what is being done in the face of this nuclear hell that has broken out in japan. i've been to chernobyl many times, including the exclusion zone. i am amazed at what the workers in this dangerous zone are still doing today. the ones we make heroes, they fight for decades after they've become heroes, for pensions, for health care, and so on. well, the hero thing is easy to say. but the real dealing with the consequences is on a very different and very sad page.
madam president, on a point of order, we are holding a debate now with the commissioner, not a debate amongst ourselves and amongst the political groups. i think under the rules we have one blue card and not six or seven.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr. oettinger, i'm outraged by this. the stress tests for nuclear power plants in the eu provide operators with an alibi for the continued operation of nuclear mills and are designed to mask the real dangers of the so-called residual risk, especially if the power plants do not have to be shut down in the event of negative stress tests. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear safety of the community is not compromised. radioactive radiation does not stop at borders. in order to protect people in europe and neighbouring countries, the eu should promote the withdrawal of its neighbours from nuclear energy in its neighbourhood policy, in addition to a pan-european exit scenario, and thus prevent the construction of new nuclear power plants. the first condition is the dissolution of the euratom treaty, which is intended to encourage the nuclear industry to expand. romania, bulgaria and ukraine alone have received over eur 500 million in loans for the construction of new nuclear power plants.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the stress tests were necessary and long overdue. you wonder why it hasn't happened before. it is to your credit that all nuclear power stations in the eu are now to be inspected. but we also have to admit that these stress tests are on very thin ice. you have rightly said that in many places there was no willingness to participate in a european examination procedure. the danger, of course, is that, like swiss cheese, it will be interpreted differently in different countries. some people don't want to record plane crashes, others just open up part of their facilities for the stress tests. so you have to make sure that this is really comprehensive! we see that you haven't reached a full assessment either. the area of human error is very fragile, because the danger today and in the future is not that an airplane will accidentally crash into a nuclear power plant, but that targeted attacks from outside on such nuclear facilities will take place. that's exactly what's not being examined. i also live on the border with france and luxembourg, where there are four nuclear power stations in cattenom. we were told that the fire brigade and the gendarmerie were responsible. i think al-qaeda and terrorists are laughing their asses off about the fire department and the police being responsible for dealing with the threat of terrorism. that really needs to be included in the stress test. and finally, what are the consequences of finding flaws and weaknesses? there is a danger that we will not be able to do anything at european level and that this will be a waste of time. so, are there really going to be any shutdowns or upgrades? it is high time that you put forward a revision of the euratom treaty. we cannot continue to have no say in the safety of nuclear installations.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. can you confirm that the joint resolution we have drawn up here on the stress tests was first signed by your group chairmen, mr harms and mr cohn-bendit, and then, despite not having been substantially amended, was rejected in the plenary? do you not agree that this was not necessarily helpful to mr oettinger in his application for more stringent stress tests?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank commissioner oettinger. he fought, and he achieved a lot. the result is not perfect, but the criticism that is being levelled at the commissioner above all else is directed at us above all else. we must say, with a self-critical eye, that we have not reached a resolution. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on this matter. that is unfortunate. but the blame also goes to the greens and the social democrats, who first signed a resolution and then did not end up supporting it in the plenary. and that has indeed made life difficult for commissioner oettinger in his fight with the member states for stricter stress tests. that's a first step. we have to keep moving. we need a change in policy. we support you, commissioner, in making this legally binding in the future. we need to expand to the neighboring countries. i would like to expressly support what mrs morkūnaitė-mikulėnienė has said. germany has been mentioned several times. of course, we have to live with the fact that we are also criticized. but i would point out that 13 eu member states are already operating without nuclear energy, including very successful countries such as austria and denmark, so that this possibility must certainly be accepted for germany as well. i would like to point out that angela merkel made a government statement today in the german bundestag and once again stressed that we want to advance together at least what we agree on in europe. for example, energy efficiency was explicitly mentioned. i would like to support mr oettinger in presenting an ambitious proposal on energy efficiency in two weeks' time. i am very pleased with the outcome, which is a mixture of incentives and obligations for those concerned. what i do not like is that the member states should set their own targets. we should also have a directive from the commission, whether it is binding immediately or only indicative. but if you give me a specific suggestion, it will be a very good suggestion.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the result of the vote and other details, see minutes)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to know why the member who is sitting in no 56 voted for 56 and 57 at the same time. mr bütikofer voted for mr turmes and i shall vote for mr turmes. i ask you to condemn this behaviour. (thunder) in previous elections, when mr bütikofer was not yet a member of parliament, a group leader was once punished for voting for his neighbour. no matter how ridiculous mr cohn-bendit thinks it is, he can do it with the greens! parliament has clear rules: no member may vote for him in the place of another. the same goes for the greens! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we can argue for a long time about how far russia has come on the road to democracy. of course, from our point of view, there are many shortcomings. but on the other hand, it is always better, especially when you are suing for human rights or when you are suing for better environmental rights, to maintain cooperation with russia - already because of its size. if cooperation is carried out in a friendly manner, if it is also carried out in a serious manner, without forgetting to make the right demands and the right complaints, then this can be a step in the right direction, not only for cooperation between europe and russia, but above all for human rights. in the end, it's about making the people of russia better off.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm very glad that we've been able to look at the address book companies and their practices today. this is a very big issue in the european union. although the committee on petitions has been working intensively on this issue since 2008, no significant improvement has been made to date. to explain the difficult situation in germany, let me explain the following: in germany it is compulsory and customary for a legal person to register its address in an electronic directory when it is established. and then when you sign up for a company, you get about eight to ten letters. you could say that one of them is real and the others are superfluous. and then in this startup phase, when you have a lot to do, a lot of red tape, you pull the wrong ticket, you fill out the wrong form, suddenly you have a contract and you have to pay up to a thousand euros. i would therefore urge the commission once again to consider a europe-wide ban on these misleading address books!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the few colleagues who are still here, the visitors. i would like to conclude by saying something about the misleading address book companies. i have voted in favour of this resolution because it is important that we in the european union have a say in this matter. it is part of organised crime in europe that people on the internet use fake and shell companies to steal money from people and small and medium-sized businesses. we must prevent this, and we must do something about it. in many of its sunday speeches, the european commission has called for genuine support for small and medium-sized enterprises and for cutting red tape. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the programme. the resolution is therefore a step in the right direction, but it is only a small step. we must be active in this and i therefore call on all of us to continue here - not just those who are not here now, but all of us who are citizens' representatives in this parliament!
in writing. - in the vote on paragraph 17 of this resolution, i voted against the second part in the separate vote. i do not think it is appropriate to focus on individual disadvantaged groups in society as envisaged here. other groups, such as those who think differently politically, also suffer human rights violations which cannot be tolerated. the first part of the paragraph in question also includes, in my view, the protection of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, without losing sight of other groups, so that equal treatment can be guaranteed.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the current us administration has initially been clear in its support for closing the guantanamo prison camp. unfortunately, the us government has not consistently implemented its announcement. this includes the closure of the military commissions set up there, because they do not meet the standards of fair trial in any way. the more dramatic situation is that a death sentence is pending and an execution is imminent. our resolution therefore urges all the eu institutions and the member states to do everything possible to prevent mr el-nashiri from being executed. we again call on the us to submit to a moratorium on the death penalty and thus join a global development which states that we now have 96 states that have irreversibly abolished the death penalty. the number of states that still maintain and use the death penalty has also fallen to 58. that's a good thing. mr el-nashiri was held in a secret cia prison in poland and was severely tortured. we europeans must also finally take seriously our shared responsibility for these serious violations of human rights. the suppression and cover-up of this and the widespread impunity for those responsible, as has been the case so far, must not continue. the debate today also shows that it is not useful to talk superficially about anti-americanism or anti-european sentiments, but we must deal with the facts and i can refer to the sources that mrs gomez referred to. in addition, the un special rapporteur on torture presented a good document at the last committee meeting, which proves that there were such prisons set up by the cia in poland.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the united states is not the largest democracy -- as has been said -- but the third largest democracy on earth. but i think they will not be impressed if the second largest democracy in the world after india, namely the european union, is divided internally on this important issue. the issue is far too serious, and it has been rightly said that our partnership with the united states is based on human rights. we are fighting for international law and guantanamo is in violation of international law as an unacceptable lawless and lawless zone. we are fighting against military justice and for the rule of law, with which military justice is incompatible. we fight for the right to life, which is incompatible with the death penalty. we are fighting for human rights and those human rights are being violated in guantanamo. we must therefore make it very clear to an important ally like the united states that we do not accept this and we will not accept this. this has been the position of this parliament from the very beginning, across the groups and not least the position of the european people's party: guantánamo must be closed. even terrorists have human rights, but they must also, of course, act in the interests of the victims of their just punishment. but this must be the subject of a legal and orderly procedure! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
mr president, i am following in the tradition of winston churchill, who said: 'we must build something like the united states of europe'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to ask the honourable member what the purpose of the continuing commitment to the universality of human rights is if the case of ukraine is suddenly a matter of internal affairs. that's the old soviet reasoning, that you shouldn't interfere in the internal affairs of a country. when it comes to human rights, we will always do so, especially with such an important partner as ukraine.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. unfortunately, there is reason to be very critical of the political situation in ukraine, in particular the means by which the constitutional rights of opposition politicians are being curtailed. politically motivated criminal proceedings and backward procedural law are violating the rights of opposition leader tymoshenko and other personalities and preventing them from political work. the fact that the constitutional right of an accused to access the files is being reversed - that is, that the accused is being forced to access the files - by being forced to do so, as in the case of luzenko by means of detention and in the case of mrs timoshenko by means of 44 summonses so far, shows what kind of a child of the spirit he is and how he is abusing the judiciary for political disputes in the old fashioned way. president yanukovych and his structures must stop this persecution. he is personally responsible for the welfare of ms timoshenko, yuri luzenko and their staff and supporters. mr yanukovych, your conduct in these cases is the litmus test of your credibility and your real will to implement european values in ukraine! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
a writer. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to ask the honourable member whether he is not aware that we have adopted a resolution here in this parliament by a large majority - i myself voted in favour of this resolution - in which we have very clearly emphasized the european perspective of ukraine. we have done this not just once, but several times.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 9 june 2011.
it is with great pleasure that i welcome a delegation of four members of the foreign affairs committee of the seychelles parliament and two senior officials of the parliament, led by its president mr william. the delegation is in the european parliament this week for a four-day study visit organised by the office for the promotion of parliamentary democracy. we hope that your visit, dear friends, will be fruitful and we know that you will follow with interest the report by mr cadec on the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the seychelles, which will be put to the vote tomorrow. we ask you to bring some sunshine to brussels on your next visit.
mr oomen-ruijten has asked to speak.
we're not having a debate right now. we are taking note of this request and will forward it to the appropriate bodies. let us now get down to business. the final draft agenda, drawn up by the conference of presidents in accordance with rules 137 and 138 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on 9 june 2011, was distributed. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following amendments to the final draft agenda: thursday 23 june 2011 1. the the vote on the report by mr kastler on the european year for active ageing 2012 (a7-0061/2011) is postponed to the july part-session. 2. the the report by mr tatarella on tractors placed on the market under the flexibility scheme (a7-0091/2011) will be included directly in the voting. the deadline for tabling amendments is 4 p.m. today. are there any comments? there are no comments, so these amendments are approved. in addition, the following amendments were requested: today, wednesday 22 june 2011, the greens/efa group asked that the discussion on economic governance take place immediately after the discussion on the preparation of the european council meeting and before the de b's report on the common agricultural policy. (the motion for a resolution was rejected) we now move on to thursday's agenda. the gue/ngl group has requested that the vote on the reports included in the joint debate on economic governance (ferreira (a7-0183/2011), feio (a7-0179/2011), ford (a7-0184/2011), goulard (a7-0180/2011), wortmann-kool (a7-0178/2011) and haglund (a7-0182/2011)) be postponed to a later part-session. i give the floor to mr klute to present the request.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, i would like to ask that the vote and the debate on economic governance and the vote on economic governance be postponed to the july part-session. our reasons are simple. the ecofin council met on monday and made further changes to the compromises that had been negotiated. we as members of parliament have not had time to look at this sufficiently. nor were the necessary translations available. we feel that this is an intolerable pressure from the council and we ask you, as colleagues, to resist this pressure from the council and to agree to the request for postponement!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the european parliament has rarely prepared a european council in a worse crisis. i think we needn't be under any illusions. this european council is a historic one. it is a historic one because it will decide the future of this union. i read an interesting sentence in a german newspaper this week. the markets writes a german newspaper distrust the european union because they no longer trust it to solve the problems. the people of europe, the citizens, are distrustful of the european union because they no longer trust their governments to solve their problems. we are in a serious crisis. we are in a crisis of confidence in the european project. everyone has the crisis they deserve. our problems have been known for a long time. the question is whether we want to take it with a heavy heart or a heavy heart. the question is whether we have courage or whether we are going to kneel down in cowardice. i am going to say something that is perhaps one of the most unpopular messages that can be said in europe today. i say it anyway because i am deeply convinced of the truth of that sentence. we do not need less europe, we need more europe! we need more courage to tackle the crisis with european funds. (applause from the centre) why do we need more europe? the council's main objective is twofold. firstly, the heads of state and government must win back state action. the fact is that the heads of government do not make decisions alone. in this world we live in, there are 43 companies whose balance sheet is larger than the budget of a medium-sized eu country like poland. that means there are 43 corporate executives who are at least as powerful as the polish prime minister. these people also decide the fate of the people of this continent. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, which are not in line with the commission's proposal. and those who are really in control of economic development in europe? who are these people? who's behind them? who pays the rating agencies for their ratings? they don't work for god's higher pay. they get their money from lobbyists for their proposals. the heads of government must have the courage to regain the sovereignty of state, democratic action. they can only do this by unity. (applause from the centre) they can't do that if they're breaking down into their individual parts. the eu now has 7.8% of the world's population in its 27 member states. demographics tell us that in 2050, four percent of the world's population will still live here. the remaining 96 percent of the world's population will not be directed solely to europe. the emerging powers of the world, the emerging economies of the world, are not waiting for europe to break up into its individual pieces, from the big germany to the tiny malta, in the belief that each individual can survive on his own - the renationalization rhetoric that some politicians tell their people. we will only survive in intercontinental competition - ecological, economic, financial and monetary - if we join forces. if we have the common will, the strongest economy on earth - because that is europe - if it stands together - to make it a success by being solidary. solidarity is sharing. strong shoulders are better than weak shoulders. we are not talking about a financial tax, by the way, but a financial transaction tax. when i go to the supermarket and buy a carton of milk, i pay vat. when i sell a financial product, i don't pay taxes. that's not right. that is why we need this financial transaction tax! (applause from the centre) the things are all described. they're all on the table. either we achieve europe by uniting and not by playing one nation against another, not by playing one nation's feeling against the feeling of another. either we succeed in welding europe together, or the work of european unification is in real danger. but if the european union fails as a transnational project to ensure peace and prosperity and breaks up, then more than just a political union will break up. then the demons of the 20th century that plunged this continent into misery are back in a hurry. the defence of europe is more than a european summit, it is the defence of a great idea! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am surprised at the sudden uproar in the debate on the deepest crisis the european union has been in for a long time. if we remember that we are currently defending schengen, that we have not been able to defend freedom of the press in hungary during this council presidency, that it took us a long time to find a common european language with libya and egypt, even if only in principle, then it is not surprising that, in view of the escalation of the situation in greece, we can only conclude that in europe we have many presidents but no leadership. i think that's one of the big problems that hasn't really been addressed. we are still in the situation that in the crisis which has lasted much longer than the greek crisis, everything the council finds in response is too late and too small. the idea that only by saving greece and stabilising the south can the european union survive in the way we want it to, and for a better life for europeans as a whole, has not been conveyed at all, and i believe that there is really an institution responsible for this, the council of the european union. parliament, i would say, has not only its glory hours. the european parliament, for example, has refused to meet in time before this historic council and to adopt a resolution addressing the problems of this historic crisis. i found it very regrettable that the members sitting to my right and left here could not even make the effort to speak in time on behalf of parliament on greece. i would like to take up the matter of what is going on in greece, because i think that josef daul has a responsibility towards nea dimokratia. but i think that in matters of justice the socialist, s&d group also has a responsibility towards papandreou and his government. i am so glad that he got the vote of confidence yesterday, but the greek government is also deciding on fair programs in the crisis. and that this is so unfairly distributed, that the burden is only shouldered by the bottom, that no wealth tax is introduced in greece, that tax evasion continues to ramp up in greece, that is unfair. the national solidarity that has been mentioned must also lead to the elites in greece, who have been profiting from the crisis to date, taking their share of responsibility. (applause from the centre) we have said many things about greece, and we will continue to say them. longer maturities, cheaper loans - we believe that there must also be a smooth, orderly, secured debt rescheduling. i think it is an expression of the incompetence of political leadership in the european union to do what they have recognized as right, namely to share the burden with private creditors, not to do it because they are afraid of the rating agencies. so what brought us into this crisis is still dominant, and there is no political leadership to fight it. i think that is what needs to be discussed in the european council in the next few days. mr baroso, i wish you luck with your plans for a fairer taxation to get out of the crisis. i don't know if you're still following the financial transaction tax. we're still in favor of it. this parliament has repeatedly said yes. but i also believe that tax evasion, unfair bonuses and all the things that were driving the financial crash that have not been addressed until today. that's your responsibility, too. thank you for your attention.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not if you look at greece these days, you can learn something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it's business as usual. before commitments are made, more austerity and privatization are called for. at the same time, the european semester is an attempt to use this bankruptcy experience as a model for the member states. the whole thing goes so far that one thinks of setting up a privatisation agency on the model of the german trust. mr. lange, the german trust has done some positive things. but it has also brought with it enormous deindustrialization and a squandering of state resources. the consequences are still felt today. i do not want to arrogantly attribute this to the fault of others. further billions in aid to greece without a clear change of course is nothing more than a protective screen for the banks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'll say this is a political belly landing. it's going to be the same as it's always been. the only alternative, in my view, is a radical change in fiscal and economic policy. but that takes courage! the causes of the crisis are not being tackled. that's our problem. the courage to promote democracy and transparency and to reduce politics behind closed doors is lacking. the european idea is being threatened and narrow-minded nationalism is gaining ground. please send clear signals from the summit, but do not send the signal from the summit.
president of the commission. − mr president, i would just like to answer two concrete questions that were put to me. i will not enter into this ideological discussion against europe in which, may i say, it is interesting to see the extreme right and extreme left united against the euro and against the european project. that is why i want once again to appeal to all the democratic forces in europe, in this parliament, in greece, to unite in a consensus to do everything possible to ensure growth and prosperity in europe. the two concrete questions were about the financial tax and about our position on reverse qualified majority. on the financial tax, i want to confirm that the proposal that the commission will put forward, probably in october, will be on a financial transaction tax. we have made an impact assessment. we believe there are two possibilities: a financial transaction tax and a financial activities tax. we have decided to come forward now with a proposal on a financial transaction tax, one reason being precisely that there is no equivalent of vat for financial transactions. so we will come forward with that proposal by october. (applause). the second issue was raised by mr verhofstadt. i want to make it clear that the commission supports parliament on reverse qualified majority voting. we have been supporting your ambitious position. at the same time – and olli rehn will have the opportunity to address you later this afternoon – we will make a strong appeal to you and to the council to see if it is possible to come to a final agreement. because we also believe that, thanks to parliament’s positions, great progress has been achieved in terms of the package that is now up for consideration. i want to congratulate you, the parliament, those that have been working most on this matter, and also the hungarian presidency of the council, as it has done some very important work as well. at the end, i want to say to all of you that, in terms of responsibility, the cost of not having an agreement on this matter will be extremely high, considering the current situation. the commission supports the community approach. the commission supports the greatest possible ambition, which is the line that i think that you are also defining. these are the concrete answers to the concrete questions.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a lot has already been said about greece. i would like to add just two thoughts on this subject. one thought is that, despite all the anxieties and fears that people feel, we must not lose sight of the principles. the two principles that shape europe are solidarity - we stand by it - and self-responsibility, that the greeks and all those who receive solidarity should also act accordingly. the second thought is this: there was talk of the great test for europe, of the concern that the project might also fail, that old, defeated, supposed ghosts might return to the european union. i want to turn this all around for the good. we should not only talk about the problems, but also about the successes. for example, that the baltic countries have managed to get out of the crisis, that ireland will be able to get back into the bond markets next year with european support. it can also be a great opportunity to prove to people that we are stronger together than we are alone. in this context it is almost difficult to deal with the second major issue of the council, namely the question of migration. but there's a beautiful connection. the same principle applies to the question of migration, and in particular to schengen, where a great european achievement is now being called into question by national egoism. we have all seen the figures that say that 18 000 refugees have arrived in italy. but we all know that 18 000 refugees for italy are not, god knows, an overload, because belgium alone has taken in twice as many in the last year. that is why it was not right to react as italy did. it was domestic politics because of minister bossi. and in france, for a few hundred people, the reaction was to re-establish border controls, also for domestic reasons. in denmark too, it was for domestic reasons. i therefore hope that the council will send a clear signal: when the migration issue is discussed, when schengen is discussed, the heads of government of the european union must send a clear counter-signal and must say: we do not want national egos, even in this area, but we want to defend the great success of free europe. mr president of the commission, you are assured of the support of parliament in this task.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after the vote of no confidence in athens yesterday, with the result we know, the bild newspaper in germany carried the headline 'greece's papa has survived' 'europe breathes'. so i have to say that i was also pleased with the outcome of this vote, but it is clearly too early for me to breathe a sigh of relief. because what matters now is that next week the big savings package comes through. this is the next big test. and even then, we're still a long way from breathing. many more steps and measures are needed before this crisis is overcome. i believe what has been said here is correct. the people of greece need a light at the end of the tunnel. i 'll make this very clear . the people in the countries that receive the most aid also need a light at the end of the tunnel. they feel like they're giving and giving and giving, and it just doesn't stop. and in greece, you feel like we're saving and saving and saving and saving, and it's not going to stop. that's why a growth strategy is so important. that is why it is very important, yes, to privatise, yes, to break up this crusted economy, to liberalise. it is therefore right that we should strongly promote and support the reduction of public debt in greece. it must be that democracy joins in. it is absolutely irresponsible what is happening to mr samaras. it is also true that we issue guarantees for investments, for example. it is right, mr president of the commission, that we should prefer the unused eu funds and make them available to the greeks, because in the end, more growth benefits not only the greeks but all of europe. if we look a little further ahead, one thing is also important: the stability and growth pact must be strengthened. we must prevent future crises. this includes the reverse qualified majority. no ordinary citizen understands what that means. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then we won't be able to agree to this package. the reverse qualified majority in the preventive phase of the stability pact is absolutely crucial for us. i am very pleased, mr barroso, that you have once again made it clear that the commission shares this view. i would like to see a lot of support from this house for this project.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. but that starts, of course, with the proposals that have been made there finally being fair. unity in the country will only come about if there is a new confidence in the political and economic elite there. this presupposes that the proposals made are consistent. but the question i would like to ask you is this: i would also like to see some coherence in your group. here you are calling for eurobonds, in germany you are declaring eurobonds to be a kind of blasphemy. your group in the bundestag is the strongest opponent of a common european ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am not going to go into that. you can't just sit here with your blue card and not ask questions. that's why my colleague, count lambsdorff, has nothing to say.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, today’s lively and animated debate is clear proof that the agenda of the european council is highly relevant and critically important for the future of europe. greece was very much present in most of our interventions. we know that the situation in greece is very difficult and that there are no easy solutions. i agree with all of you who said that it is very important to demonstrate to the greek people that it is not only about cuts and austerity, but that there is also light at the end of the tunnel and that we can actually help greece to get back onto the path of growth. austerity must therefore be accompanied by pro-growth policies and measures. i am absolutely sure that the european union and the commission can do that. we can help greece to increase administrative capacity. we can help greece to absorb structural funds better and put them in strategic pro-growth sectors, and we can help the greek authorities to improve the quality of their tax collection. we know how to help countries improve their educational systems. i think we can all do it now, and the commission is ready to proceed in that way. we are prepared to put together technical assistance programmes which will accompany the difficult austerity measures the greek authorities have to go through. by this, we would like to show clearly that europe cares; europe is solidarity and europe can help if the country is in such distress. however, the same message needs to come from the greek political establishment. we can do our best, but what we need from the greek authorities is a clear show of unity, and a clear show of resolve to tackle the difficult issues in that country. this would be my appeal and the appeal of the commission to the greek political representatives: cooperate, show us unity, show us a united approach to the very difficult issues. the time is right and this would be a highly responsible gesture. not many of you touched upon the very important element of the conclusion of the european semester. however, i will mention it here because we need the help of the members of the european parliament to go back to their constituencies and explain that the european semester is over and national semesters are starting. i think we know what to do; we have country-specific recommendations which are very fair, very honest and very detailed for each member state, but now we need the cooperation of the national authorities and of the national governments to actually deliver and to carry out the reforms in the member states. only by this will we change the quality and competitiveness of the european economy for the better and put the european economy on new wheels. i would like to confirm once again that a financial transaction tax will be proposed by the european commission. we needed to carry out a very thorough impact assessment and that is about to be concluded. this will be one of our proposals, and one of our inputs into the global debate on these very important issues. again, europe will provide leadership on this issue and we hope that our global partners will follow. several of you referred to the schengen area and to the importance of having high quality immigration policies in place. i would like to assure you that we are absolutely aware of the fact that freedom and the rights of persons to free movement within europe is one of the most important achievements, and we should treasure it. the commission will act as the guardian of the treaties and would be ready to act if the basic foundations of these projects are called into question. after recent developments, we also have to acknowledge that we need a complex solution for all aspects of migration and that we need to consolidate trust in the system. therefore, the commission is convinced that only a coordinated and community-based process is adequate as opposed to unilateral initiatives by member states to re-introduce internal border controls. we also need a common european asylum system that is more efficient and more protective. we will do our utmost to ensure that the system is up and running by 2012. this is the commission’s approach and i hope that it will be supported by the european parliament and by the member states. please allow me a few short words on economic governance and the ‘six pack’. you have already heard the position of the commission president and you will have a chance to discuss this issue in greater detail with my fellow commissioner, olli rehn. i would underline only one element and that is the importance of having an agreement sooner rather than later, because time is pressing and we need our new tools in order to govern european economies in better and more reliable ways in the future. a concluding remark on croatia. i think that it is time and it is appropriate to congratulate croatia, because it is approaching a historical moment and i believe that this should give a very positive signal, not only for all croatians, but for all the peoples of the western balkans. i would also like to congratulate the european parliament and its rapporteur, mr swoboda, and also the hungarian presidency, which did an excellent job of pushing this so far forward, enabling us to have these very good results at this time. the last word of thanks goes to ms enikő győri. she said many times that she wanted to lead a parliament-friendly presidency. i think she has proved it with her frequent presence in this house. i would also like to thank her for her excellent cooperation with the commission.
the president of the council. - mr president, commissioner šefčovič, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the process of european integration. i would like to ask you to allow me to use my mother tongue for the last time in this plenary debate. first of all, i want to thank you for your kind words. regardless of party affiliation, many people said that the hungarian presidency had done a good job. i think - and this is my personal conviction - that it is worthwhile to have a parliamentary presidency of the union. president barroso referred to the six sets of legislation, vice-president šefčovič to the negotiations with croatia and to various dossiers. having co-decision in the european union also gives the council and the presidency the opportunity to build up a lot of personal contacts with the members and to be more sensitive to each other's problems, and i think that is a great opportunity for everyone. thank you for the debate. i think that in the principles and the fundamental values - and a lot has been said about this, in fact, philosophies of european integration - we have talked about this here today, and i have to say that most of the speakers' comments reflected that we agree on this. we also agree that the european council is faced with extremely difficult issues. i would always be careful with the historical marker, because i think we devalue the term if we use it too often. i also strongly agree that fear and mistrust are bad advisers and should not be the considerations guiding eu leaders in their negotiations tomorrow and the day after. and what you have urged, and my conviction and that of the hungarian presidency, is that we must base all our actions on trust, and i would add, on mutual trust, responsibility and solidarity. whether we are talking about economic policy, schengen reforms, asylum or enlargement, we must build on these! and the solution - and the vast majority of the people have proposed it - is more europe, stronger europe, and this is the conviction with which the hungarian presidency has worked over the last six months. yes, we believe that deeper integration is the solution to our common problems. finally, i would like to report on the results and certificates we have obtained from the previous european councils in the areas assigned to the hungarian presidency as its homework, since we had to reach agreement with you on specific dossiers and other issues. i'll start with the economic issues. we have already discussed the european semester and i thank vice-president šefčovič for telling citizens what this exercise is about. this is about ensuring transparency in knowing which member state is doing what, so that we can send warning signals in time. and i am very pleased that the european parliament has followed this practice, and in this european semester we are simultaneously encouraging member states to tighten their budgets and stressing that the source of growth is to be found in work and creativity. as for the sixth package of legislation, there will be a detailed debate on it in this house shortly. let me give you two reasons why i would still recommend the current agreement for adoption. part of it is because this package is good. it was better than the initial council proposal and because it had been given concessions by the council on all the issues that parliament had put on the agenda. there is no question, even in a reverse majority vote, which does not give parliament something. so when mr lambsdorff suggested that there was only one tooth in the whole package and this reverse majority vote, i think that's not the case. the virtue of this package is precisely that it builds brakes, checks in the system in many places, which can prevent crises like 2008 in the future. as regards freedom of movement, let me say that the hungarian presidency was able to adopt unanimously at the council meeting on 9 june on the internal market and justice a conclusion in which we could say that freedom of movement must be preserved, that there are already tools available, we must first improve them, and only if these have been exhausted and there are indeed new problems to which we must adapt our existing achievements, then we will only take extraordinary measures in exceptional situations, and that the way to do this is that as soon as we have a specific draft legislation in our hands, and there will be such a draft in the autumn, as far as i know, then we will have to work out the specific way. i have just received news that, in parallel with this plenary session, the council has addressed the only open question in frontex, and that the negotiations on the strengthening of frontex have therefore been successfully concluded. thank you for your cooperation. we have also succeeded in meeting another task given to us by the european council, namely to increase the lending capacity of the european investment bank, and this is something we have been able to agree with parliament, and i think this is very important for the settlement of the situation in the north african countries. i have to respond to the words of congressman tabajdi. i must reject your comments on members of the hungarian government, which i believe are motivated by domestic politics. first of all, i would like you to ask your colleagues in the economic affairs committee about the work of mr matolcsy, because the mood at yesterday's hearing was a little different from what you have just described. i would also recommend that you read how the member states have responded to the commission's recommendations in the context of the european semester. you can react to them, you can criticize the content, because everything in the european union is about exchanges of ideas and opinions, and indeed many countries have criticized the content. the second point i would like to make to mr tabajdi is that the hungarian presidency has been a positive one, and i believe that this has been the key to our being able to reach decisions with the eu institutions on a great many issues. and that was nothing more than respecting the contracts and the competence of the individual institutions. the six-package is now being presented to the european council, and the hungarian presidency has done everything possible to achieve this agreement, as president barroso has said, and as your colleagues have said in committee in this house. so we're going to hand it over to the european council, which has a president, called herman van rompuy, who will act on his own discretion. and finally, the croatian connection. i told you at the beginning that i'm very careful about using historical markers. i think that in the case of croatia, the historic moment has indeed come. we can use it to send a message to the western balkans that their place is in the european union. i am confident that the eu heads of state and government will make the political decision on croatia's accession tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and that we will be able to conclude the negotiations in the final hours of the hungarian presidency, no later than 30 june. the european commission worked day and night to get the certificate issued on 10 june, which turned out to be a positive certificate. i can inform you that the croats have worked day and night to make this happen and the hungarian presidency is doing the same. there's a council working group meeting every day to finish the job. finally, i would like to thank not only this house - i have already done so - but also our tripartite partners, spain and belgium, for the excellent cooperation that enabled us to complete the joint programme for a year and a half, and i would like to conclude by wishing poland a good job and a parliament-friendly presidency.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr albert deß, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the cap to 2020: food, natural resources and rural areas - the challenges ahead (2011/2051 (ini)) (a7-0202/2011).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. fifty years ago, in 1961, i began my training as a farmer. the common european agricultural policy has been with me ever since. it has become an important link in the european integration process. the cap's tasks have changed radically since its inception. the first task was to increase food production to become more independent of food imports. some time later, europe was faced with the problem of managing food surpluses. with a situation that kept changing, there were also reforms that kept changing. today we are discussing the next reform, the reorientation of the cap after 2013. as rapporteur for the cap reform to 2020, i welcome a compromise across the political groups. although a compromise could not take account of all individual interests, the report was adopted by a large majority in the committee on agriculture and rural development. the clear vote is a clear signal to the commission of the way the committee on agriculture sees the cap by 2020. i am sure, commissioner, that the european parliament will also be the signatory to the post-2013 reorientation of agricultural policy. the lisbon treaties give us the opportunity to do so. i would like to thank my colleagues for their cooperation and support, the chairman of the committee, mr paolo de castro, the coordinators and the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation and willingness to compromise. i thank the staff of the agriculture secretariat, the parliamentary groups and my office for their excellent cooperation. on the report: food security and the security of supply for half a billion people remains the main objective of the common agricultural policy, not only in the eu but also worldwide. the cap should be sustainable and competitive, provide consumers with safe and high-quality food and promote renewable energy. the two-pillar structure of the cap should be maintained, and planning security should be provided for our farmers for this next period. the report clearly states - and we support the commissioner - that the agricultural budget should be maintained at the present level in the next financial period. i cannot understand president barroso's statement that the second pillar should be reduced massively. i think we'll be speaking out against this as a cross-party group. the important task remains that we simplify the common agricultural policy. that is a central requirement of our compromise. it also calls for a fair distribution between the member states. this is also necessary if we are to create a level playing field. the aim is to move away from historical and individual references towards area-related premiums. the role of small farmers should be recognised, and on the basis of subsidiarity, member states should decide on their own support. the importance of young farmers is mentioned. it was also important to me to avoid the introduction of a new additional payment system which would also entail monitoring and sanctioning systems for greening. on the whole, we have found a compromise which many of our colleagues will be able to accept tomorrow, so that we can send a clear signal for the reorientation of this agricultural policy. the epp group will support this report by a large majority.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we believe that the report is clearly moving in the right direction. european agricultural policy must be fairer, it must be more environmentally friendly. i think that we have achieved these objectives with the report. european agricultural policy must ultimately be in line with climate and diversity objectives. that is also stated in the report. european agricultural policy must deliver environmental performance. then the taxpayer is willing to spend money on it. we need a fair distribution between the firms, but also between the member states, and we need a fair trade policy towards the less developed countries. that's in the report, too. it was a laborious process to work through almost 1 300 amendments, but in the long term we have achieved the objective of reaching a large common compromise with clearly defined objectives. parliament has shown that it is capable of making policy on this point. we believe that many points could have been made clearer, such as the conditions for payments under the first pillar. fruit sequences, green protection but, well, it is now up to the commission to bring it to life, in the final design. it's also important that the degradation is included. large companies must do more for jobs and the environment. that was decided by a large majority in the committee. it is also important that the role of farmers in trade is strengthened and it is also important that the issue of protein deficiency is addressed. we cannot afford to import protein crops from other countries in the long term, which correspond to 30 million hectares of fodder land. we're gonna have to start there eventually. the most important thing, we agree, is a strong second pillar. rural development, environmental measures and disadvantaged regions - these are clearly areas where we must focus. if mr barroso wants to put the ax to the bone on this particular point, he will encounter massive opposition from parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis.
did anyone else miss the english translation? maybe this is just a local problem in the back rows. we're looking into it. it was obviously a channel mix-up. we're working on the problem. i beg your indulgence, but surely the speech can be read on the net. we have a web stream, so the translation will be found.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank the rapporteur for his good and persistent work. the future of agricultural policy after 2013 is a matter for us to decide where we want to go. we want an agriculture which meets the challenges by being innovative, modern, courageous, self-confident, self-responsible and independent in the market. or do we want agriculture to remain dependent on the perpetual drip of europe, and to need to be held by the hand and admonished by mammi every step forward? we're setting the stage for that now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this puts too much strain on the financial capacity. because everyone here must be aware that every change in policy direction results in new laws and policies which in turn force investment in the factories without increasing revenues at the same time. we should not be concerned with whether a company is large or small, but whether it is economically sound. we should not care whether he is using conventional or organic farming, as long as he is using his resources responsibly. we should not care how many or how few animals he keeps, as long as the animals are well. it is important for us to ensure that we have enough food of good quality at affordable prices in europe in the future. because europe is not alone in this world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank the rapporteur and am pleased that a socialist, social democratic handwriting is clearly visible in the report. we want a sustainable, ecological and social agricultural policy. we want the greening, and we want it in the first pillar. cross compliance and agri-environmental measures in the current system are not enough to get the support of the whole of society, but that is exactly what we need. our main objective must be to ensure high-quality and sustainable food production in europe and to maintain an active and vital rural area. we must stop the increasing exodus from the countryside, because we need people. people who are involved in agriculture and the upstream and downstream sectors. the commission has heard rumours of massive cuts in rural development under the next multiannual financial framework. we must continue to work for a strong second pillar in the cap, for the rural areas and for europe. i would like to make a general warning to anyone who is considering cutting agricultural funds. if that is the case, there will be no reform. then everything stays the way it is. this is incomprehensible to the citizens of europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, and you all have done so, i would like to thank our rapporteur for the commitment he has put into this report and for the breath he has taken to reach these compromises. it certainly wasn't easy, but we've made good compromises. we are in favour of a competitive and sustainable european agriculture. this means that our farmers produce food of the highest quality. we are also producing a cultural landscape that can be seen, a recreational space for all of you, for all of us, for our society, which provides jobs, not only in agriculture, but also in tourism and many other areas. this is a service that agriculture provides to society, but one that is far too under-appreciated by society - and sometimes by us. it is a comprehensive achievement and this comprehensive achievement deserves that the entire agricultural budget should not be cut, if at all possible. we support your approach, commissioner, to put more ecology and greening in the first pillar. but this new approach must not discriminate against countries and farmers who are already pursuing very ambitious environmental programmes under the second pillar. we must find a solution that is fair to both sides. environmental programs are expensive. when i read in the newspapers - many colleagues have mentioned this - that there should be cuts under the second pillar, i vehemently reject this! we need a strong first pillar. we need - and we have spoken out in favour of - a strong second pillar. we shall support you in this endeavour, commissioner.
member of the commission. - after this debate on mr deß's report, which lasted more than an hour, i remain very optimistic not only about the vote to be held tomorrow and the confirmation of a report which - as i said in my introduction - has many similarities with what the commission proposed in its communication at the end of last year, but also with regard to our future common agricultural policy. i would like to reiterate here once again - as i did in my introduction - that i remain true to my principle of maintaining a balance and complementarity between the two pillars of the common agricultural policy, and of keeping a second pillar within the future common agricultural policy which remains strong. we have a lot of ambition for this second pillar in terms of the balance of our territories, environmental issues, young farmers, small farming, local markets and the development of our rural areas. i can assure you that i, president barroso and the commission attach great importance to the second pillar and that it will not pay the price of discussions on the future budget of the common agricultural policy. i can assure you, including on behalf of president barroso, on this matter. secondly, i do not want - and the commission does not in its communication - to put food, which remains the main and essential objective of the common agricultural policy, in contradiction with the environmental question. what we want to propose is a balance in agricultural practices that we want to support to ensure a balance between the ambition of economic competitiveness and that of maintaining and preserving the regenerative capacity of our natural resources. i do not see how we can achieve competitive agriculture in the medium and long term if we do not take care of natural resources. that is where we want to find the balance in the cap, not to oppose the food question to the environmental question. the second is the question of better targeting in the common agricultural policy. it was mr. ashworth who picked it up, but i see he's not here. the commission is proposing a much better targeting of direct payments and, moreover, i think that what mr deß proposes in his report is quite in line with what the commission intends to put forward in its legislative proposals. we will propose measures to deal with crises, whether they are market crises, health crises or crises linked to climate change. we are going to propose such instruments and i also thank parliament for its support for this essential objective so that our farmers can be assured of this in the future. i would like to conclude here with the few clarifications i have made, expressing once again my optimism about tomorrow's vote and the quality of the deß report, and i can assure you that you will find all the essential elements of this proposal in october, when the commission presents its legislative proposals. i thank you again for this work which really adds value to the legislative package that the commission is going to propose.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you for this intensive discussion and for the support you have given me. we all look forward to your communication in october and then to a good, positive cooperation. european agriculture is a positive factor. it feeds over 500 million people, cultivates and maintains over 170 million hectares of arable and green land, provides many jobs both upstream and downstream, is a major pillar of rural areas and is already the most sustainable agriculture in the world. that is why i cannot understand president barroso's talk of massive cuts under the second pillar. it also puts the 2020 targets, which are its own targets, at risk. it is not too much to ask that 14 million farmers feed 500 million people, that 500 million people - in quotes - also feed 14 million farmers with decent food, thanks to the european agricultural policy. i would like to point out here - it has been raised a few times today - that there have been some deviations from my original report. i've been in the political business too long, and i know exactly why i wrote the report the way i did. if i had written the report as it is today, what bacon could i have offered for the compromise negotiations? so there was enough bacon to calm everyone down and today a good result came out. there was a thick fat pad in my report. i wanted to make sure that we as a parliament were setting a good example, that we were addressing the important issues that are necessary for european farmers to have a good future. we will then, commissioner, when the legislative proposals are presented, work intensively to achieve a good objective together. i can assure you today that you will probably have more support here in parliament than you will have with some commissioners. that's what we're offering you.
in writing. we social democrats have been very active in advocating the alignment of the new eu agricultural policy with ecological standards. we believe that the farmer must be paid as a service to society. it is nothing else and nothing else is currently valued less than the prices achieved on the market. the preservation of the two-pillar model guarantees farmers a fixed amount on which they can rely in the future. these payments are important for long-term planning. by linking direct payments to an economic variable we can achieve the transition from a europe of 15 to a europe of 27 without putting one or the other too much in the way. the report is a good compromise, it is a european compromise. the question now is what the commission, and above all commission president barroso, will do about it. the fact that the budget for environmental protection is to be cut is a sign of a narrow-mindedness which commissioner cioloş hopefully will be able to convince him of.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we also call for an economic government in our programme for the 2009 european elections. however, our ideas as leftists of an economic government are very different from what is contained in the package of economic governance which has now been put on the table. economic governance, which for us means setting clear rules and limits for the economy. for us, this means, for example, preventing wage dumping, tax dumping or setting minimum social standards to prevent distortions of competition in the labour market. and of course, economic governance for us also means efficient regulation of financial markets. there is nothing of this kind in the economic governance package. the package as it stands now gives the impression that it was mainly brought about by the pressure exerted by the credit rating agencies on the southern european euro states. it is establishing, as we can already see in the examples of greece, portugal and spain, a radical austerity policy with consequences that are difficult to foresee for the future of the european project as a whole. the radical austerity policy is currently driving citizens in greece, portugal, spain and also in northern european countries back to a sinister nationalism which was long thought to have been overcome in europe. the very justified improvements to the commission's original proposals, which were drawn up and voted on in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, in particular in the report by elisa ferreira, have been largely re-drawn and compressed under pressure from the council. we consider it totally unacceptable that the delegated acts in the ferreira report have been deleted. the european parliament will no longer have any influence on the way in which macroeconomic imbalances are dealt with. this is a matter for the commission. this has little to do with democracy and even less with a social and sustainable europe! in our view, the economic governance package - at least in its present form - is the wrong answer to the crisis we are facing. that is why we will not accept the package as it stands.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to begin by addressing a question to commissioner rehn and also to mr kármán of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have noted this week that the council has objected to a wording in the report by the socialist rapporteur, mrs elisa ferreira, which refers to the symmetrical approach. can you report that this problem has been resolved because the council has agreed to the rapporteur's proposal? in fact, then you would still have a problem between the majority here and the council. or did you forget to mention that? then i'd like to know, too, because then i'd think that's not important from your point of view. i would like to have an explanation from both of you at the end of this discussion. i have the impression, when i listen to the two conservative groups in this house and also to the liberals, that the world will be all right if we adopt what they have put forward here. i'm afraid that's not true. the world is worse off, not better off, because they have turned the chance to create more common economic policies in europe into an austerity pact. it is bad because it represents a policy which dates back to the last century, because it represents a policy of the day before yesterday, which has only the technique of policy-making, sanctions regimes, but not incentives, intelligent control mechanisms, balanced approaches as we have advocated. we have had enough pragmatic proposals from various quarters of the house to present a balanced package here. it is, of course, sheer nonsense that if mrs wortmann-kool wants to do something, the greens and the social democrats will block something here. the opposite is true! i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the epp, who are following the commission or the council, whether we are here to have a good time or to think for ourselves, that is the task of the electorate. i must ask you: you cannot at the moment judge whether a member state is buying tanks, fighter planes or investing in its education system of tomorrow. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget. we wanted to give you that, in fact. we wanted a smarter pact, one which would give the commission more room to influence. i do not understand why mr rehn does not agree to more opportunities for influence, to a modern economic policy in the interests of the citizens, with reference to the eu 2020 objectives. you broke it, that's a shame! that is why this package is not balanced in any way. we will continue to fight for a better economic package. we owe it to the voters. because in fact the answer must be 'more europe' and not 'less europe'. but it should be the right europe, not the wrong package.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we in the green group want a strong european economic government. this means that on the one hand we need strong rules to tackle imbalances, as provided for in the report by mrs elisa ferreira, and we also need sanctions for this. we shall therefore vote for these two reports, as well as for mrs ford's report, which lays the statistical foundations for economic cooperation. the same applies to the three reports on the stability and growth pact: a common euro, and we also need limits on deficits and debt in europe. they have been exceeded in the context of this crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we now see in greece, portugal and ireland that, again and again, in negotiations with national governments, including under pressure from the european commission, results and packages have been achieved at the expense of the weakest and that the wealthy, who have earned very well in the previous 20 years, have not been included in a burden-sharing. that has shaken confidence in this process. that is why we greens wanted the europe 2020 targets to be fully binding under the stability and growth pact, the reports, as well as the deficit and debt targets. the fact that you have not accepted this, dear colleagues from the liberals and conservatives, means that you have been deprived of a principle of social cohesion in europe. we cannot support this! we regret this very much, because we would have liked to see a broad pro-european majority in this house. if there is no majority for these reports tomorrow, we are ready at any time to work together constructively on a common solution for an economic government which takes social and economic responsibility equally seriously.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. for a long time we have believed that the single market and the introduction of a common currency would automatically lead to convergence of the economy and the member states and that the maastricht criteria would provide sufficient discipline. reality has caught up with us. the control instruments have proved inadequate and have been grossly neglected in the past. the single currency and the single monetary policy cannot be achieved in the long term without strong interconnection between fiscal, budgetary, economic and social policies. the eu is now making a fresh start. metaphorically speaking, i'd say she's got one last shot. if this last shot misses the target, there's a lot of damage. the eu could find itself in a phase of regression, we could see renationalisation and protectionism again and the eurozone could see its first signs of disintegration. the new package seeks to prevent this and to lay a new foundation. i agree with this package, although in view of the grievances i have just described, i consider it to be half-hearted. the european semester may well be a bureaucratic exercise in centralism. the euro pact may be toothless. what is lacking are binding recommendations from the commission. what is lacking are automatic approaches, sanctions which the council can only stop by reversing qualitative majority decision-making. what is certainly needed is an end to the unworthy, non-transparent backroom talk of the council members. what we urgently need is a clear resolution mechanism for the financial sector so that it can be resilient again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate reflects the unresolved issues of economic policy in europe. we have a central monetary policy, but we have a decentralised responsibility for budgetary and financial policy. the attempts of some greek colleagues to transfer responsibility for greece's internal political responsibilities to europe, or to third parties, to banks, to capitalism, or to anyone else, can only fail. (interruption of the debate) it was the communists from greece. fortunately, the euro is stable both internally and externally. we are not facing a euro crisis, but a sovereign debt crisis. there must be a stop. it is useless, and the state cannot live beyond its means in the long run. it is no use adding to the existing debt and not bearing the consequences of necessary reforms. that's why i say it's high time we took action. parliament has long called for action. the commission has now proposed a tightening of the stability and growth pact. the hungarian presidency has negotiated well, and so has our side. i am sorry, mr bullmann, that on many questions of financial regulation we are quite clear on the fact that the socialists still want to distinguish between good and bad debt. this is a dead end! and if you take stock of who is really in trouble in europe, we do not need to defame them, you can see that. wherever these budgetary and financial problems have arisen, there have been socialist governments. hungary, latvia, romania, outside the euro zone, ireland, spain, portugal, the united kingdom and also greece, with a four-year break, where ours were involved. it means your economic model doesn't work. (interruption of the debate) you're not much better yourself. we cannot dismiss the responsibility of the greeks here, and i say quite clearly that the first to violate the stability and growth pact were not the greeks, but the two biggest: germany and france. we have also objected to this and changed it. there you were, mr. bütikofer, in the government. you are the gravediggers, your party, you are the gravediggers of the stability and growth pact, not the greeks. but now the greeks are called upon ... (the president cut the speaker off) ) (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr. langen, i'd like to make sure that you're familiar with our plans. that is why i ask you, are you aware of what we have proposed to your colleague mrs wortmann-kool? firstly, we are strengthening the pact by including in the closer monitoring of selected objectives from the eu 2020 package, such as research and development and the fight against poverty, as proposed by mr rehn. this would include investment in the modernisation of energy supply systems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am well aware of the proposals put forward by mr bullmann and the social democrats. the only problem was that they wanted more money first. more money is not the answer. mr tarabella has just confirmed that there are possibilities for reducing debt even with socialist participation. i 'm gonna make this very clear . the reforms that have been made in greece have not helped to ensure that the great private wealth of greece has led to the rich actually participating in the costs of the state. on the contrary! since 1 january, 59 billion euros have been withdrawn by greek citizens from greek banks' deposits and 12 billion euros of greek government bonds have been sold since 1 january. i also ask the many rich people in greece - and this must be regulated by politics - to participate actively. then they will be able to receive our solidarity on their own responsibility!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have no more time to speak, so i ask the following question of mrs lulling: mrs lulling, would you be willing to inform the house on my behalf that i did not mean all my greek colleagues, but only the two communist colleagues who spoke directly before me, mr chountis and mr toussas. would you be prepared to confirm that to parliament?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european economic governance package is a clear signal that we have made. future debt crises must be avoided. the euro must be effectively countered if it is destabilised. that is the basic message of the very good report by our colleague, mrs corien wortmann-kool. to do this we need stronger policy coordination between member states and robust supervision at community level. this monitoring is an essential element of the eu 2020 strategy. our pact for growth and stability, the basis of a strong euro, must finally be applied consistently to show the deficit-makers their limits. this is what our citizens are rightly demanding. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. there must be no more excuses and no more lousy compromises when member states disclose their convergence programmes and budgetary policies to each other. the citizens will only be prepared to make painful reforms if they are given a clear picture of the facts so that they can support the necessary operations. contrary to the widespread national dreams, we do not need less europe, but more europe! for example, the strengthening of our community method on the basis of the lisbon treaty. the eu commission must and will assume its responsibility to identify fiscal and economic trends at an early stage and to make the dialogue between financial institutions and policy makers much more efficient than before.
in writing. the issue of the disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste is a very topical one. the recent events in japan have once again brought home to us the immediate danger to workers and the general public involved in the handling of radioactive material. we have tons of radioactive waste in europe that's being moved by people. i am glad that we can create a basis for all of europe to protect the health of these people. the commission's technical report has been transformed by parliament into a report which puts people at the centre. these include, for example, workers in transport companies and plants handling radioactive materials, or workers maintaining the final storage sites. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nuclear safety is not compromised. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need to have a complete record of all waste and its disposal as long as it is harmful to people and the environment. i am pleased that many of our demands have been included in the final report of the committee on industry, research and energy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the socialist group supports the eickhout report because it sends a very strong signal to the rest of the world that we are not going to give up on climate protection. it's a signal to the inside that we're taking our 2008 climate pledges seriously 20% renewable and 20% energy savings. commissioner, you have made a statement today. we have a lot of work to do. together, these already result in a 25% reduction in co2 emissions within the eu. who can argue with that? that is not possible, because this is a package of legislation that we have passed. besides, we have responsibilities in the world. that's the 5% cdm we still have to pay. in this respect, we get 30% in total. i hope that's not watered down. the amendment to paragraph 3 would destroy the whole report. if it passes, we shall vote against this report tomorrow. i hope that's not the case, because we just need that strong signal.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted an opinion. - mr president, i have to say something. from the point of view of budgetary control, it must be said that the european union is often accused of being sloppy in spending. who's the slut? in 80% of cases, the member states are jointly responsible for this expenditure. it is often the member states. we all remember british prime minister cameron telling our parliamentary leader that you do not need to ask for more money, you must first make sure that the money is spent better. and which country was the biggest sinner in 2010? the uk! all english programs were stopped in 2010! why is that? because the rules are too complicated. i would therefore ask my colleagues, and in particular the commission, to join the member states in fighting for simpler rules, for better and simpler monitoring systems and also for the introduction of new elements. if, for example, you introduce a reward, a prize, in research policy for a particularly successful innovative project, it is much easier to monitor. the same applies to cohesion policy, where we could use project-based loans to create leverage. there are many opportunities for innovation. we should take this step with courage!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur on behalf of our committee for her intensive and very courteous cooperation. she sets a fine example in this regard. commissioner, you said we can't do business as usual. that is, of course, absolutely true. however, it must be said that if you look at the energy priority of the eu 2020 strategy, for example, you get the impression that the commission is tending to do business as usual because the priority is not fully funded. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this can't be right. as the americans say, "we must put our money where our mouth is" and not just make promises and then not keep them. secondly, we in the committee on industry want to ensure that the cost explosion of major projects such as iter or galileo pas does not get further into the research budget. we have made proposals to that effect. we'd love to see them make a dent. the final aim is to help small and mediumsized enterprises. we want to give priority to their access to research and innovation funding and innovative financial instruments.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. − mr president, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs very much welcomes the increase in the area of freedom, security and justice but also believes that, before taking up new measures and programmes, the existing ones should be properly evaluated and that those evaluations should be taken as a base for drawing up the new programmes. we see room for using synergies and avoiding duplications, making things simpler and ensuring that there is clear added value for whatever we do at eu level. the committee on civil liberties strongly believes that we should look at what is actually happening around us right now and that we need to improve our spending capacities in the area of refugee protection as well as in the area of roma integration. all our agencies need to be able to fulfil the tasks that we currently pile on them. lastly – and this might also be of interest to the commission too – the civil liberties committee strongly believes that a substantial part of the sis ii budget should be put into reserve as there is still no clear result. we should also consider putting parts of the staff expenditure into reserve in the event of the eu tftp programme – which has only been discussed in the commission and not, so far, by the civil liberties committee – not coming to fruition.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to support in general what commissioner lewandowski has said, that in times of crisis it is a question of striking the right balance between the need to save, the need to use resources wisely, the need for austerity and at the same time the need to be willing and able to invest, so that we do not completely strangle our economy. so i share that general guideline. i think that's the standard we should use for our household. the question now is whether this right claim, which the commissioner has made, has actually been met. the greens have some serious criticisms to make of this. if we take one particular project, the iter fusion reactor, we find that it is one of the projects with the largest increase in budgetary resources in the next budget, namely eur 740 million. is this the right symbol in these times when funding is being cut for other research projects, especially renewable energy? if we take seriously the commission's and the european union's claim to be pursuing a real climate change policy and to be taking the path towards renewable energy, but if we give such a clear priority to the money for this project, we think that this is the wrong decision. that is why we cannot support this negotiating mandate, even though we think many things are right.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal. ladies and gentlemen, the european community is a community of solidarity, and the eu is the advocate of the european regions. the european parliament is sending a strong signal to our regions today. we want to help the weakest connect. we support the border regions to keep europe growing together, and we want to harness the potential of all regions to make europe more competitive. although the economic and financial crisis has left much to be desired, european structural policy will continue to provide crucial impetus for growth and employment. there is much to be done after 2013: the challenge of demographic change, the change in economic structure, transport connectivity deficits, the introduction of the renewable energy age, the widening of social disparities. the art of structural policy will now be to give the regions the impetus to innovate in response to this challenge and to help them to help themselves. at the same time, europe needs the regional potential to deliver on strategy 2020 if it is to succeed. we need adequate financial resources for these tasks. we therefore oppose any attempt to abolish the successful structural policy. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we want to strengthen the principle of multi-level governance. the responsibility of the regions for the implementation of european objectives is an added value in itself. in the report we made a number of suggestions on how europe can further increase this added value. we are calling for more resources to improve the infrastructure of our border regions and we also want to strengthen the transeuropean networks. we want to invest more in the future of our cities and rural areas and call for better coordination of programmes. it is likely that a majority of parliament will also support an intermediate category with high rates of aid for less poor regions. i would like to warn you, however. then, the phasing out would become the sleeping out. the council cannot allow this. the commission has already made proposals for improving efficiency and transparency. the demand that we attach stricter conditions to the allocation of funds is very important to us. eu law must be implemented before eu funds flow. this applies to public procurement as well as to price regulation. we also want much stricter controls on the allocation of funds. if we do not mention the member states where fraud is widespread, and we do so regularly, we lose credibility. we are calling for the commission to be more involved in the control of subsidies. the commissioner, please do not give the member states too much credit. take charge of the accreditation of national audit bodies. parliament will support you here. in conclusion, i would like to draw the commission's attention to a few points which are not in the report. as the draft report says, we are not now asking for a reduction in the co-financing, but, please note, we are not asking for an increase either. the report also no longer mentions that we are calling for the merger of the globalisation fund and the social fund. but please note that we are not calling for a separate globalisation fund either. i would like to take these two examples as proof that there is more enthusiasm for reform in parliament than the report suggests. we need structural reforms, especially if the eu is to remain strong. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am curious to see how we will deal with this in the vote. thank you for your attention, though.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. cohesion policy is a successful european policy that benefits everyone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. studies show this in many forms. but above all, it will be visible to the citizens on the ground. that is why we need cohesion policy in all regions of the european union in the future. but good policy can and must be made better. the european parliament is trying to encourage this with the pieper report. modern cohesion policy means facing new challenges, creating modern infrastructure, tackling climate change, supporting energy security and energy efficiency, promoting research and development, supporting smes, developing employment. but we also need to use resources efficiently. that is why we are in favour of a future cohesion policy which is more results-oriented and transparent, but also less bureaucratic and better coordinated between the different funds and programmes, as my colleague mr stavrakakis said earlier. and most importantly, the partnership principle needs to be taken to a new and better level. we need to involve all levels, including the regional level, the local level, the social partners and also the important ngos. the new intermediate category was the last to be contested. we believe that this intermediate category will help regions which need even more support than the classic objective 2 areas. this funding will not be at the expense of other regions. on the contrary, it does not create a patchwork of support, but rather unifies the many phasing-out and phasing-in procedures, and i think we can use this in the european union. if you think we are going to introduce a category of subsidies here in the house for all eternity, you are underestimating the european parliament. we have shown many times over the years that we have introduced community initiatives where necessary. but when the goal was reached, we also abolished them together. we are man and woman enough to be able to judge at the end of a period of funding whether this was good and right and how we want to continue to re-shape it. i therefore ask the house to support this new intermediate category when we vote later.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have to disagree with my predecessor. the central message, particularly of the pieper report to the commission, is that european cohesion policy has its own european added value. it is the instrument which holds the european union together internally. this is visible to citizens in all regions, but especially in the most disadvantaged and crisis regions. through the decentralised structure and through the participatory structure, cohesion policy will make a decisive contribution to a resource-efficient, low-carbon, innovative and social europe. contrary to the rapporteur's personal opinion, i believe that the instruments of cohesion policy must contribute to climate protection and poverty reduction, alongside smart investment. we are therefore disappointed that the rapporteur has tried everything and is still trying to keep these two aspects out of the report. to the commission: these two aspects have a clear majority in this house. unlike the rapporteur, and i say this as a german, i also believe that the commission's proposal for an intermediate category, in view of the dramatic problems in some regions, will lead to a balanced and transparent structure for future cohesion policy. it's absurd to think that you can save money here. it is also important for germany that the european union develops in harmony, and this is also a gain for germany. that is why we as greens are voting for an intermediate category. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i have to disagree with that. the fact is that in all the reports we have been careful to put the regions at the centre. the position of the commission is strengthened by the pieper report. that is particularly important to us at this point. the future of cohesion policy is clear: the actors are the regions and not the states!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on the intermediate category: mr pieper, i could certainly have imagined other solutions at the beginning, such as a transitional arrangement for the regions which currently receive maximum aid and which will no longer receive it after 2013. however, the discussion showed that we must take into account other regions, especially those affected by the crisis. we are talking about 51 regions at the moment. in view of the large number of regions concerned, it would be a matter of utter negligence not to establish an intermediate category. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. otherwise, there is a lot of light and a lot of shadow in the pieper report. we criticise, among other things, the lack of a clear commitment to a much more decisive fight against poverty and consider that the wording of this document, linking cohesion policy with conditionalities that force member states to implement reforms, is unclear and very broadly interpretable. the point is that cohesion policy must remain an instrument of social balance and solidarity in all regions!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. interregional cooperation will become increasingly important in the future. cross-border cooperation and macro-regional cooperation are of particular importance in a europe growing together to achieve the 2020 targets. border regions still face special challenges today. crossborder concepts and projects, such as infrastructure, business cooperation, research cooperation, labour market development and training, are driving much of the european union. we need clear and simplified structures for the management of interregional projects. different national requirements of project partners often make it difficult to cooperate and to implement concrete sustainable projects. it is an important step that the pieper report includes the call for an increase in the share of interregional cooperation, objective 3, to 7%, and i would like to support this strongly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make two points in relation to cohesion and regional policy. first, the dispute over the so-called intermediate category, which is also very strong along national borders. i think it is very necessary that in this discussion we should take account of the following points in particular: regional policy and economic development policy must provide an incentive system for the development of the regions concerned. if the system is set up in such a way that a permanent subsidy mentality develops without the need for the efforts of the respective regions to obtain the appropriate funds, then i considered such an intermediate category to be a real disaster, because it is a divisive fungus, and not useful. i think it is very sensible, however, that the objective 1 regions which have been excluded from objective 1 should receive special support. i also thought it would be sensible to support a region which, for specific reasons, has encountered financial and economic difficulties. what we should not have is a perpetual subsidy mentality, but instead help and support for regions that need it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i ask you to speak because i am sure that my colleagues will understand me when i tell you, on behalf of our group and certainly on behalf of the other colleagues, that you are taking on a difficult office - you know that better than we do - and that you have our full solidarity with your new office, because we all - regardless of our political views - share the same wish: that this wonderful country, of which you are foreign minister, should overcome its deep crisis as quickly as possible, with our help. we need greece! we stand in solidarity with your country, as we stand in solidarity with you. mr vice-president, mr foreign minister and mr stavros, i want to say to you personally that you have been and are not only a great friend and colleague, but you have been an enrichment to us all in every way. thank you for the many years of cooperation and good luck, stavros! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we in the socialist group have already rejected this motion in committee. we felt - and the overwhelming support for this report shows this - that the report was ready to be put to the vote. we know the arguments, and that is why i am also expressing my opinion in advance on the requests for postponement, which will follow on the other parts of this package, which have been put forward as reasons why we should now negotiate with the council again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we know from the council that that will not be the case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you agree with this or do you oppose it? this is an important question for us.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i will be very brief. the vote was taken in march, and today is only the final vote. after more than three years of work on this compromise, i would like to say that there has been excellent cooperation between the council and the commission. the hungarian and belgian presidencies in particular have done a very good job. the other groups, mrs gebhardt, mr rochefort, mrs turunen, mr triantaphyllides and mr wieland, and above all you as co-rapporteur, have also made a substantial contribution. thank you very much. i believe that this directive will enable us to take a major step forward in the internal market in the interests of consumers and businesses.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. yes, this is a democratic institution here, where you have to use the rules of democracy from time to time. i therefore called again to conclude the package, because i want to put a question which is important to our group on this package. you have a clear majority for your line here. there is no doubt about it, we have to accept it, even if we disagree. but since we haven't finished the process, i have a question. the answer to this question will have a great deal to do with the rest of the procedure for our group. we have now put two important points to the council in the form of questions in the wortmann-kool report and in the ferreira report, namely that we have defined a position of parliament and we ask the council to change its position now. it's all right. i would like to ask you this question: if the council does not change its position, what will you do? then you're rejecting the package? shall we go to a second reading? then we're ready to fight you through anything. or do you still agree to the package? this is a very important question for parliament in the light of this postponement.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this morning i read in a german newspaper a moving appeal by three of my colleagues to the future of the european union. this general consensus is always touching. but we find that, particularly when it comes to the regulation of financial markets and the establishment of social justice, this unity is weak in detail. i am in favour of not pretending to be political dissidents at this point, but of arguing in a way that is understandable to the citizens of europe about the direction of politics in crisis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament is certainly a very busy parliament, but we should nevertheless attach some importance to the balance of voting times, not to vote on nothing one day and on everything the next. i therefore propose that we suspend the vote and postpone the remaining items to the next part-session. (applause from the centre) it is not an issue that is on the agenda now, really so urgent that it needs to be voted on today. we have already voted on the legislative points. and that's the important thing for today. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, the proposal by mr weber is a sensible one. we have really completed a great programme with great and important reports. we have no more legislative reports to vote on. it's after 2:30. it makes sense to postpone the non-legislative reports until the july meeting. it's not a big loss.
i have to say, madam president, cohesion policy has a reason, it has a beginning and it should have an end. i think the reason is that we want to use cohesion policy to bring living standards and economic development in the european union into line. it is therefore right to promote and support regions which are below the economic standard. but it is equally important to check whether these funds, the financial resources, are also being used properly, that is, whether there is an effect. that is why the report is so important to me, because it also contains an analysis and therefore also forms the basis for conclusions for the next and the next period of support. i would also like to give an example: in my region in the east of germany, in particular, cohesion policy has been effective since 1990. there has been a development, and i want to expressly state it as a success, when we say that these regions need to be phased out in the near future, because that means that the standard of living there has increased.
i have to say, madam president, more effectiveness between the erdf and the other structural funds on the one hand, i think it is extremely important that there are different funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i also think it is extremely important that we have included the regions in this, that the european union has guidelines which can then be implemented in the regions and applied accordingly. but it is equally important to ensure that the funds are not used in a way that hinders each other, that we do not have double funding, that we do not support nonsense, and that we simply and decisively coordinate the funds in terms of their accuracy. that is what i mean by increasing efficiency. i simply expect that we will continue to work on this and that we will have further reports and results presented here.
i have to say, madam president, i think it's a little bit like football: if you make rules, you have to follow them. it is not enough to look each other in the eye and say that we will all play by the rules. life is different now. that is, if the rules of the game are not respected, you must punish and punish accordingly. of course, this cannot be achieved by a democratic decision. i'm coming back to the football game. imagine that a foul is committed. that's for the referee to decide. imagine if the referee would vote each time among the players whether it was really a foul. i can't do that. that is why we need a clear decision-making process. when rules are broken, how do you deal with it? and of course, i would like to emphasize this last, of course you also need solidarity. one must not only punish the one who has broken the rules of the game, but also help him to return to the path of virtue.
i have to say, madam president, i apologize again for drawing your attention so often. but this week was not my week in the catch-the-eye procedure. i was always unlucky. i would like to say a few things on this point too, but overall i am of course glad that we have adopted it. i agreed to it. i am also glad that we are strengthening consumer rights here and that we have included the so-called door-to-door shops, because there are many unpleasant things happening there. however, i would like to make a further plea that we take into account the problem of red tape in the implementation of this law. in germany in particular we have many craft enterprises. they don't do door-to-door deals, but they do, of course, make contracts with their customers, which are still often done by handshake. it's been like this for a hundred years. we must be careful not to bless these mediumsized enterprises with an overwhelming bureaucracy. i am glad to say that i have voted in favour of the directive.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr albert deß. the agricultural policy must remain competitive, the agricultural policy must be more environmentally friendly, it must be adequately financed. the emphasis here is on appropriateness. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i think that the emergence of competitive structures in the agricultural sector is a specifically desirable objective. a cap on direct payments is counterproductive in this respect. it is not our job to destroy competitive structures. i had to grow up in a country, in east germany, where the farmers were also given detailed instructions on the structure of the farm and all the production data. the end was a state bankruptcy. i am against capping and that is why i had to abstain at the end of this report.
in writing. the report on consumer rights still contains many shortcomings, particularly with regard to the provisions on craft industries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in practice. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it is a good compromise, drawn up by mr deß with a great deal of sensitivity in favour of european farmers. but we should continue to ensure that de bureaucratization is not just a word, but is also implemented.
in writing. - i am against including the reform of the wine market - and other specific sectors - not because i am against the content in general, but because at this stage of the common agricultural policy the mention of individual branches of production should not yet take place. the main features of the common agricultural policy for the future should now be negotiated.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm here to report on the decision of the economic affairs committee to regulate derivatives. it is, after all, just under three years since lehman brothers went bankrupt and two years since the g20 decisions, and we are now at the point where we have a regulation of otc derivatives. i would like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to the unanimous decision of the economic committee: the members of the committee, the shadow rapporteurs, the staff of the secretariat, but above all commissioner barnier, whose proposal has provided the basis for us to adopt a sensible, strict and effective regulation of derivatives. i would also like to thank the hungarian presidency for working day and night to bring the very different positions within the council closer together. unfortunately, we have not been able to reach a political agreement. the dossier is therefore being forwarded to the polish presidency. i am optimistic that we will be able to find a solution relatively quickly with the polish presidency after the summer break. the question arises in the further procedure whether we shall vote on the text of the law and hold the final vote. the economic committee will be discussing this again this evening. the two rapporteurs and the chairs of the two largest political groups have indicated to me that they want to postpone the final vote to september in order to maintain the negotiating room with the polish delegation and not to initiate a second reading. the main points of the report, which are also controversial: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. these are the most important things. if you look at the volume at the end of june: the total volume of financial derivatives traded off-exchange reached usd 60 trillion and usd 67.9 trillion on exchanges. it can therefore be assumed that this problem, where otc derivatives had no collateral other than the bilateral agreement, was indeed one of the main causes of the financial market crisis. the problems we still have are, on the one hand, the application of the directive. the council is in a clear blocking minority, in line with the commission's proposal to limit this to over-the-counter derivatives. this is also in line with the g20 decisions. but the us treasury recently launched an initiative to extend this to exchange-traded derivatives. parliament has clearly taken a position against this. we want to stay on this line too. i think it is also a sensible line to follow the g20 decisions. i ask the commission, commissioner barnier, that the commission officials and staff should also clearly stick to this line, even if there are other proposals in the council. the second area is exceptions to the scope. we felt that these exceptions should be kept to a minimum. there have been many requests for exceptions, and they were justified. we have merely excluded the bank for international settlements in basle and have allowed transitional arrangements for bilateral clearing for pension funds. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the common market. there are interventions by various associations, which also have an exception. but when i think of the savings and loan association - for example in germany - to which the landesbanks with the greatest derivatives risk belong: the second largest german landesbank, lbbw alone, reported a derivatives volume of eur 2.3 trillion as of 31 december 2010. this shows that we cannot treat alliances in the same way as parent and subsidiary companies. the third area is clearing thresholds for non-financial counterparties. we have agreed that companies which are only end users should be excluded from this. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european network of clearing houses. we are asking for reciprocity. i would also like to make it quite clear that we want to limit the interoperability and cooperation between different clearing houses to casa-papers only, or to require at least three years' experience. i am optimistic that, after the good preparatory work carried out by hungary, the outstanding issues will be resolved under the polish presidency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the other proposals are essentially proposals which can be agreed jointly within the meaning of the econ committee decision. the 13 amendments tabled by the gue, which would completely change the scope of the directive, must be rejected. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply and for the work he has done.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not robert goebbels has already made it very clear what role derivatives played in the financial crisis, what their dimensions are. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. that was our request too. we are also aware that such a demand cannot be made by a small group in a majority. we have to accept that and we accept that. i would like to stress once again that we have already considered it useful to go further. on the other hand - and i must say this to werner langen very clearly and with appreciation - the report has also become, from our point of view, a more acceptable and veritable report. the three points which we consider to be important are the clearing obligation, the authorisation and supervision of ccps and the reporting obligation for derivatives dealers. we believe that this is an important and viable framework and a sound infrastructure for achieving sound regulation. this regulation is, moreover, a prerequisite for the imposition of a financial transaction tax, which is currently being debated, on derivatives trading. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to draw attention to one point which was particularly important to me: the reference to the problem of food trade and speculation in it. we have only been able to take this reference into consideration, as mr langen was prepared to do. this point will be raised again in the course of mifid. the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are already considerations in our party, but the time i have here is not enough to explain this a bit. we already have ideas on how to deal with the financial markets differently and how to do what is partly done through derivatives in another form. but it would be too far-fetched to do so here. i can give you more information on this.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the future of derivatives is regulated at community level. the very good report by werner langen makes it clear that we are insisting on full transparency in derivatives transactions, which are often traded off-exchange. if they are over-traded, they have the potential to put financial markets at risk. i welcome the fact that only a few exceptions to the scope are proposed. this makes the directive highly effective. the clearing of otc derivatives, i.e. risk-based valuation and settlement, will be taken into account by central authorities in future. this leads to greater transparency in the trading venues. it is in the interests of investors that the new eu securities regulator, esma, should play a leading role. in addition, both the trade repository and the standardisation of procedures are suitable for the early detection of new risks. the commission is already on board. the council is now called upon to ensure that the member states finally act in unison. then we can make nails out of heads in the fall. risk control and market transparency are the cornerstones of a functioning financial services market, providing an excellent foundation for the necessary long-term confidence.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we also believe that this report is necessary to correct a badly drafted report from 2002, a badly drafted directive on financial conglomerates. this directive is in keeping with the pre-crisis spirit of relaxing regulations and allowing for exceptions. legally, it's right that we've corrected that now. it is also right that the joint committee of the three supervisors, i.e. insurance, banking and securities and stock exchanges, now finally has stronger powers with regard to these institutions, which go beyond the purely banking or insurance sector and are transversal. however, it is also clear that this principle of separation into three different supervisors no longer corresponds to the reality of the financial market, that we did not go far enough back then. it is a pity that the most important and relevant questions ended up in the review clause. we therefore hope for a strong report from the international financial institutions and from you, mr barnier, from the commission, hopefully by next year. citizens want clear answers to the question of too big to fail, too interconnected to fail. it is not a value in itself that we allow ever more complex and unmanageable financial institutions. we'll have to work on that.
member of the commission. - mr president, as mr canfin said, every day that passes, if we look carefully at what is happening in the markets, we are reminded of the urgency and timeliness of this text. that is why, mr canfin, my entire management and my team have worked so quickly, i believe, so seriously, in four and a half months; it will be one year on 15 september when we table this text. i see the time passing, we know that the time of the markets is much faster than the time of democracy, and that is why i hope, as you do, that you can, after the good work you have done with the hungarian presidency recently, reach a solution and compromise. ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis of 2008 and the subsequent stock market crash have clearly shown the effects and risks of uncontrolled developments in financial markets, sometimes promoted by a number of practices that are reprehensible and that we must control. the 2009 bond crisis highlighted that these phenomena could also affect bond markets by causing serious difficulties for all players in those markets, including member states when seeking to finance themselves. in both cases, the member states reacted in an urgent, often disorderly manner without having the information and means to act effectively and in a truly european framework. the draft short selling regulation and the cdss are precisely designed to remedy this situation. we want to increase transparency on these practices which, while often useful, can have an effect on markets by increasing volatility. it must enable national regulators to act effectively within the overall coordinated european framework which we wish to consolidate. in the face of these still unstable markets and the persistent debt difficulties of some member states, europe must act swiftly; it must also take concrete action. it is essential that the european parliament, the council and the commission can make progress, as you yourself have wished, mr canfin, and as the few weeks you will have should allow, towards a dynamic compromise. i thank you very much, mr canfin, for the very effective work you have done alongside the fictitious rapporteurs ferber, goebbels, schmidt and kamal and, as you yourself said, the presidency which has accompanied and worked with them. there is now a good deal of convergence between the text submitted to parliament for a vote and the general agreement of the council. i think that the trilogues have helped to initiate this convergence movement and i hope that it can succeed. i would simply like to mention three points to you: the purchase of naked cdss, the restrictions on naked short selling and the powers of esma which you yourself mentioned, mr canfin. first point of the game. on the delicate issue of sovereign risk cdss and the ability to buy them without being exposed to the underlying risk, so bare, i think we need to act appropriately. i'm reserved, as you know, about the effects of an unconditional ban on naked cdss on the liquidity of sovereign markets and the impact that that might have on the bond market. i think it is necessary to change the status quo and not leave the prohibition of naked cds to the discretion of the member states. we must not miss this opportunity. i would therefore like to confirm that we are ready to work with the european parliament and the council to find a solution that responds to these legitimate concerns. second point. as regards the restrictions on short selling, the 'locate rule' to which you referred, we must maintain effective measures which are sufficiently binding on market operators. a differentiation of the provisions between equity and sovereign debt can be envisaged, but it must not, mr canfin, lead to too flexible requirements which would then be ineffective. third point. as regards the powers of esma, it is very important that this authority - i repeat this again in relation to this text - can play its role of coordination and, in some cases, of intervention; this was provided for in the founding regulation of esma which you yourself consolidated and this regulation formally authorises this intervention under certain conditions. the question of sovereign debt is of course of particular importance to the member states. we see this clearly in the present period, but maintaining a coherent european regulatory framework with an authority that can act effectively is also very important. i have made a commitment at the recent ecofin council in may to work with you and the council on an appropriate solution. once again, i thank you very much for having understood and worked on this text, which in my view is one of the building blocks that we have been discussing, and for having decided to take the few days or weeks needed to continue the trilogues effectively and bring them to a conclusion.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this is a very important proposal and a very important report. the area we are talking about here is, in my view, actually synonymous with the fact that in the past we have allowed in the financial markets things that we have forbidden in casinos and in the state lottery for years and decades. the rapporteur has rightly pointed out that we are in a situation where credit default swaps are offered to insure something that may not even exist. in practice, this means that even in the current debate about the greek crisis, no one knows how many cdss there are and what the consequences would be if greece were to default. it is high time that we regulate here, that we ensure reasonable supervision and thus also contribute to the development of rules of the game, at least in the financial markets, which correspond to those that apply to ordinary citizens when they visit casinos and play lotteries.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is right that we are debating this important commission proposal today in the european parliament's plenary and that we are also setting out our position tomorrow as the european parliament, because the discussions of the past weeks - with all the praise for the hungarian presidency of the council, which has made a great effort to bring the council and parliament together - have shown that the council of ministers still needs impetus to adopt regulations which allow what is necessary but prohibit what is not necessary. i want to make it clear that i cannot bear to hear the word liquidity. if there was one problem that got us into the financial crisis in the first place, it was that there was too much liquidity invested in products that nobody needed, and then they collapsed and got us into the crisis. and so, who needs insurance against loss of citizenship? but only those who have a state guarantee, and they should have it. but if you speculate on the insolvency of a country, you should not be able to do so with such instruments. that's why these products must be banned! short selling of shares, i.e. selling shares you do not own, is about developing rules of the game so that you cannot be highly speculative. i think we have reached a reasonable compromise here, and the discussions with the council have been very constructive. i thank the rapporteur for his excellent work, the shadow rapporteurs for the constructive discussions, and the commission for playing a very positive role in this. i also hope that the council, as an actor which is unfortunately not present today, will be able to come to a reasonable solution with us as soon as possible. i am therefore pleased that parliament is now sending a clear signal on this important matter.
mr president, i have a very short question. could mr schmidt explain to me what economic benefit naked short-selling brings to an efficient financial market? from my perspective, there is no theoretical reason in economic theory to explain what it is good for.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. speculation was a major factor in triggering the crisis, while cds and short selling were a major aggravating factor. these instruments have degenerated into pure speculative instruments. many in the financial industry seem to have misunderstood or misused these tools as personal money-printing machines. this is at the expense of entire economies, of states and above all of the people in the countries concerned! in this respect, it is to be welcomed that the commission has finally taken the initiative and understood that regulation is necessary. we shall see whether it will be strictly regulated. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr canfin, for his work and efforts to improve the proposed regulation and to put a stop to gambling. the aim must be to prohibit de facto uncovered short selling and to prevent speculation in the future. it is also about strict regulation and, above all, a strong supervisory authority in europe. i am afraid, however, that in the negotiations that are to follow, the interests of the financial centres, in particular london and frankfurt, will prevail over the interests of the majority of the people in europe. when that happens, there won't be much left but a swiss cheese with holes probably bigger than the rest. this is certainly not in the interests of my group!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we don't know exactly what role short selling or uncovered short selling played in the failures of merrill lynch and lehman, but we do know that they at least contributed substantially to the collapse of those institutions. the claim that uncovered short selling is good for the market is as hard to prove as the claim that the world will end if we don't ban it. we are dealing with a very complicated, very technical area here, and i dare not say unequivocally that this or that is correct. but it seems absurd to me to want to sell something i do not own and to use it for speculation. this goes against my basic understanding of what business is supposed to be. if i don't have a title, i'm gonna have a hard time offering it. i cannot judge whether this is really useful for the market. it may be, but my gut tells me it's not. so i would suggest that we do it in a way that stocks, bonds or cds can only be offered for sale if you either have a security or if you don't have a security you have a loan agreement or at least an agreement that says the security is available the next day or so many days when the deal actually closes and settles so there's no risk. i thought that the council and parliament had already agreed on this, because they had actually agreed on the intra-day arrangements. unfortunately, the council has again departed from this, and i hope that perhaps we can find it here again. one thing is certain: these transactions are ultimately cross-border, and that is why it is important that we have very clear rules of supervision. it seems to me that esma, the newly created securities and markets supervisory authority, is the ideal institution to have the mandate alone in case of emergency to intervene and determine what needs to be prohibited, what needs to be at least recorded, where we need a register, where we need a labelling obligation and the like. in this respect, it is an ideal opportunity to use esma productively.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for your cooperation and for the position you have taken. this reform of the investor protection directive is necessary to improve consumer protection in the financial markets. we've seen several major scandals. the consequence of these scandals is this reform. i would also like to thank the commission for the strong and ambitious proposal it has put forward. i would like to make a brief comment on two points which were not agreed. you have just mentioned it, mr barnier: the question of misguidance. we have finally agreed that it makes sense to include this in the directive. it is not that the definition and the structures to prevent misguidance are there - they are of course in the mif directive - but if a company is proven to be misguiding and cannot be held liable for it because it is already bankrupt, for example, then there is no funding for it at the moment. and the savers who are actually suffering are not yet protected. that is why commission representatives have been quite open about this in the econ hearings and deliberations. i would therefore ask you, mr barnier, to reconsider your negative attitude. we will have to look at this again in the context of ucits. thank you for recording this. the central point, however, is that there is currently a blocking minority in the council. the german federal government is also involved. it is not enough to say that the european union is not a party to the conflict. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are discussing today for the last time the framework for the european union's it agency to be created. we in parliament will accept a compromise with the council which incorporates our central demands. this is partly because we have debated this on a number of occasions, but also because of the good work done by the rapporteur - thank you very much for that and for your cooperation. i would also like to assure you of the support of the green group. i would like to emphasize a point of substance on the it agency. the framework envisaged clearly excludes the linking of different databases containing personal information. we want an efficient and secure technical platform, but we do not want to extend the collection of personal data for all sorts of purposes. the vote in parliament should be a warning to anyone who plans otherwise. we've got an eye on this agency, and we're not gonna tolerate any intrusions.
a writer. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. we have already adopted several resolutions on the pnr, which set out specific requirements. the commission has always been concerned with the need, the expediency, the proportionality and the prohibition of profiling. we consider the legal basis of the agreement with australia to be inappropriate. the aim of the agreement with australia is to bring the transfer of data required by australian law into line with european law, with data protection law. that is why there must definitely be a reference to article 16 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. we also raise the question of proportionality again. considering that in 2009, according to the australian government, only five people were tracked down and charged with terrorism - and it was not even clear whether this was made possible by pnr data - this has little to do with proportionality, given the millions of records that are stored for years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not misused. i do not know how many times the commission has been asked to prove the necessity of the transfer of pnr, to propose and consider alternatives for such reasons. to examine this question, a really substantial report is necessary. one more word on purpose: how is purposefulness to be ensured when different third countries conclude agreements among themselves under which pnr is systematically exchanged? if anything, this is hardly possible. we also expect a very clear answer from the commission on the relationship between pnr and the american secure flight programme. the safe flight programme is known to be used to exclude so-called potentially dangerous passengers from flying. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the victims are respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
a writer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. this house has repeatedly made clear what it expects before even considering the adoption of passenger data agreements. firstly, it was decided here over a year ago that under no circumstances should pnr data be used for data mining and profiling. this would mean that the practice of looking for the wrong person in the dark would finally be brought to an end and that the investigation would return to the case-related investigation. but what does the commission deliver? a free pass to link and analyze all sorts of information on personality profiles and risk indicators. this is not the way, ladies and gentlemen! secondly, we have specifically asked the commission to obtain an opinion from the fundamental rights agency. but what happened? i didn't say anything. it is only at our request that the agency has now submitted a report on the proposed eu pnr system, in which it has revealed clear violations of fundamental rights. thirdly, we have specifically asked the commission to obtain a data protection impact assessment. and what happened? i'm not doing anything. fourthly, we have repeatedly asked for proof that such a measure is proportionate and necessary, that there are no less intensive measures which serve the same purpose. this evidence is also missing! i am glad that the polish presidency is now taking an offensive on this issue. commissioner malmström, i find it embarrassing that you are apparently unable to resolve these questions. instead, you pull the blanket over your head like a frightened child. finally, please note that there are massive legal problems with the pnr agreement and the planned eu system. your own legal service says so! the council's legal service says so! the fra says so! the european data protection supervisor says that! various highly respected think tanks say so! stop the needless storage of data in all areas of life! if you do submit these pnr agreements to parliament, we in the green group will insist that they be submitted to the european court of justice for review. the commission's honourable members have covered up, twisted and concealed this matter from the outset. they have made a good game of bad looks and have let themselves be cheated. but you're not gonna get away with it!
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i must honestly tell the house that i am a little confused about the debate on passenger data, because the facts and the questions to be clarified are not new. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the signing of the australia agreement is currently being delayed also because the member states have been given more time to consider it. i am afraid the reality is different, but i would hope that this has something to do with the fact that the member states have also recognised that not every means can be right for the purpose of combating terrorism. we have - and most of the house will remember this - negotiated the swift agreement, which was very difficult but ultimately successful. i am surprised that we are now moving towards a level of data protection and data security where it seems that we are falling short of the standards we had previously agreed to. fifteen years is too long. for example, in the case of the attacks of september 11, 2001, which were particularly devastating for the united states, data from 15 years ago would not have been of any use at all, because the perpetrators were far too young to have been able to rely on such old data. i think there is a very close link between the purpose and proportionality. you cannot collect millions of data from innocent citizens for 15 years and then say, 'well, we use this data for everything,' as it says in the text of the us agreement. you can't do that! i would like to say quite clearly that this is a requirement for the united states, the commission and our member states. if a measure is adopted to combat terrorism and serious international crime, it must be limited to that and not be extended through the back door to other areas.
a writer. - the proposal for a regulation (doc. the challenge we face in this area of data and its transmission is the perpetual search for a balance between security and freedom. freedom without security is fragile. security without freedom is repressive. so we need as much security as necessary to create our freedoms, but not too much security so that we don't compromise those freedoms. and i think that's what the pnr is all about. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we have tried to convey this to you through these requests. there are legal issues. there are practical problems. there may be problems with the application in general in the framework of european law. as far as the australian agreement is concerned, i think we have a good starting point on which to build. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to this effect. then, of course, one has to ask oneself, what sophia has just said in the field, how can so many different agreements be agreed upon? what do the others want? we should clarify what exactly profiling is. it always sounds very dangerous at first, but there is also very objective profiling, as we know from the british authorities. that seems quite acceptable to me. i feel that we have one last chance at the moment with regard to the american agreement, and that we should at any rate continue negotiating. and one last quick question about canada: i've heard that the negotiations have been called off. i'd appreciate it if you could give me some feedback on that.
mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his great report. i very much agree that budget support is a very important instrument. it does not help with everything, but it has the potential to increase country ownership and enhance parliamentary control and oversight by civil society, and it can contribute to accountability. of course it only works if, at the same time, you strengthen civil society organisations, parliaments and courts of auditors. in the end it does not mean that we should engage less if we just give money to a country, it actually means engaging more, in policy dialogue, etc. but we cannot expect a development which took europe decades, if not millennia, to happen within a month. you cannot confuse defectiveness with something that you can see in a weekly update reporting that this or that has happened. education or health sectors, for example, do not spring up within a week or two. for proper, sustainable growth and development we actually need more time; we need to take a longer view.
in writing. the commission already acknowledged last year in its communication on social services of general interest that not all member states have the financial means to meet the growing demand for social services. in some countries, social networks are even lacking in many ways. now it's important to fill those gaps. the report by my colleague mr proinsias de rossa is an important step in this direction, to make social justice and social inclusion possible with social services tomorrow too. the unilateral political orientation of the european commission towards the rules of the internal market is a big mistake. a budget consolidation to hell with you is not the answer. the public sector has become the main target of all austerity measures to make up for the budget deficits created by the bailouts of failing banks. the absence of public services exacerbates the consequences for those who are particularly affected by the current crisis in many member states. i welcome the voluntary european quality framework to guarantee high quality even in difficult times - a voluntary quality framework, by the way, which involves the stakeholders in the process and whose principles support the quality systems of the member states. i hope the commission will follow my colleague's report and its own observation last year, namely 'to fill in the gaps' rather than 'to open new holes'.
mr president, many thanks to the rapporteur. the process of achieving aid effectiveness is an extremely important one for development assistance and i believe that the principles set in the paris declarations are exactly the right ones that make our development assistance more effective. however we should not confuse the idea of aid effectiveness with value for money. development does not come overnight. the number of schools that you build does not say anything about the quality of education taught in those schools. we should not fall into the trap of demanding short-term results which might not even support our long-term goals and long-term development. development takes time. i am very sorry if that does not fit into everybody’s election plans, but that is life and that is how development works, so we should not forget to look at the long-term perspective.
president of the commission. − mr president, prime minister and distinguished members of the hungarian government, distinguished members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, while confronted with very testing circumstances, hungary has risen to the challenges and delivered a very competent presidency of the council. more generally, the european union is today better able to deal with the opportunities and the difficulties before us. i would therefore like to thank prime minister orbán and all his team for their commitment and their hard work. during the hungarian presidency of the council the european union achieved the first european semester, concluded negotiations with croatia, supported the democratic movements of the arab spring, approved a new european strategy for the roma and launched the new strategy. this is in fact a good result. i want also to underline the openness for dialogue with the european parliament on the next multiannual financial framework. as you know, last november i suggested launching a structural dialogue, and this was the case during hungary’s presidency. we have met several times – president buzek, prime minister orbán and i – to exchange views before the commission finally approved the proposal that is now before you. it is a budget that we believe is realistic but ambitious, and that is all about investing in future growth. this practice of consultations – parliament, council, commission – has now been established, and prime minister tusk has already confirmed to me that the polish presidency will follow suit. the dialogue is launched. it will continue and bear fruit. we are reflecting the lessons of the crisis in our policy making. after much hard work we have both the plan and the tools needed to get europe back on track and to ensure it stays on track. this is no small achievement. at a time when some call on us to retreat into national shells, we have in fact developed a clearer sense of our interdependence. we have chosen to recognise our interdependence on the key issues of the day, particularly on the economy, but also on migration. first, the economy. growth has been high on the hungarian presidency agenda and will remain so for the current polish presidency. in today’s economic climate the stakes are very high. while 1.8% gdp growth is now expected for the european union in 2011, unemployment is still unacceptably high, especially amongst our young people. the divergences in competitiveness between our member states are still too great and countries such as greece are walking a tightrope. this means that in the longer term what is at stake is the future of our social economy, our common currency, the euro, and our role in the world. so the commission’s six legislative proposals on economic governance are essential and will have far-reaching consequences for our union. after marathon negotiations between the co-legislators, final agreement on the economic governance package is within sight. i urge parliament and the council to go this extra mile and deliver, sooner rather than later, on this very important package building on the excellent job done by the rapporteur. from our side the commission will continue to work hard on delivering in areas where it matters most for growth. take, for example, the 12 priority actions under the single market act. the commission will ensure that all our proposals are on the table by the end of the year with the hope that they can be approved by parliament and council by the end of 2012. i am very pleased to see early fruit, especially in the area of intellectual property, where the commission has presented a comprehensive strategy for reform and where already last week member states agreed on the two regulations implementing enhanced cooperation to create a common european union patent. this agreement has eluded us for decades and the hungarian presidency made a critical contribution to breaking the deadlock. the end result will reduce the cost of patents in europe by up to 80%, covering 25 member states. this is a key step in becoming more innovation-friendly. it is of great economic value. we will put an end to the unacceptable situation where obtaining a patent in europe costs ten times more than in the united states. this shows how european action can complement national action to boost competitiveness. another important issue during these six months was migration. migration is also an emotive issue, and the european union has faced a difficult and challenging situation linked to the south mediterranean events of last spring, but let me say once again that we have acted as a union to protect both freedom and security. it is of great importance that we have strengthened frontex with agreement on the new regulation two weeks ago. we have also been able to face difficult situations related to schengen governance and national actions aiming to put at risk basic principles of the european union, such as the free movement of persons and a common european space without borders. the commission will now come forward with its concrete proposals for a european-based monitoring and evaluation system supplemented by a european safeguard mechanism. on asylum, the european council has agreed that we must complete our common european asylum system by 2012. the commission proposals are already on the table. i remain confident that we have the momentum we need to complete this goal. i am also pleased that the hungarian presidency has delivered a big step forward for the roma people. the commission’s framework for national roma integration strategies is endorsed by the european council and will help us to end centuries-old exclusion in four key areas: education, employment, healthcare and housing. i commend the robust and sensitive handling of this agreement. let me now note the outstanding progress towards croatia’s accession. negotiations were formally concluded last week, and we now look forward to signing the accession treaty by the end of this year. in the commission’s view, croatia could become the 28th member of our union by 1 july 2013. we have been strict but fair, and will continue this same approach until accession. i believe it will lead not only to a stronger european family but to further peace, reconciliation and stability in the western balkans. let me pay tribute to the strong support we have received in steering this process and in giving a practical meaning to the european prospects for the region. i really welcome the strong commitment of hungary regarding the future of the western balkans. we have also given definition to the danube strategy helping to connect, protect and develop in partnership with six of our neighbours. the overall aim is to improve the quality of life for the 115 million people living in the danube region. this year has also been a very important year so far for neighbourhood policy. neighbourhood policy is more than ever at the top of the union’s agenda. we have actively managed the situation faced by our southern neighbours, not only supporting politically the arab spring, but also on the ground in very concrete humanitarian terms, including as regards its direct impact on european union territory and defining a strategy for democracy and co-prosperity. in conclusion, let me say that we must keep focused on investing in our future. the hungarian presidency has helped us in this respect and their close collaboration with the new polish presidency will serve the union well. it will ensure continuity in the council’s work and allow as well for constructive exchanges with the european parliament. we have been able to move forward with the european agenda during this six months. i am sure that during the next semester we will be able to build on these achievements to ensure important successes for our union. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. hungary has not only had a first-class presidency of the council, but it also has a very modern democratic constitution. i would like to ask mr swoboda whether he thinks that mr ban ki-moon, who heads an organization made up of dictatorships, should not rather deal with dictatorial constitutions in the un than with that of a model democratic country.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. in the view of my group, the hungarian presidency has achieved some really important achievements. it was a difficult presidency with the financial crisis, with fukushima, with the developments in north africa. it is thanks to your government, mr orbán, and in particular to your foreign minister, mr martonyi, who is sitting with you, but also to your minister for europe, mrs győri, that a really excellent job has been done here. this is particularly true of economic policy: what has been achieved in stabilising the euro is certainly a great success, but it remains an important task. the adoption of the efsf, including the esm treaty, is a great and important achievement! the implementation of the first european semester, the coordination of the budgetary policies of our member states, will also be the real step forward in preventing the debt-building which has been common in the past. one point remains open, as you yourself have mentioned: this is the so-called six-pack, the package for economic governance. we as a group are insisting and will continue to insist on a strengthened stability and growth pact, which is why we will also remain firm on the question of the reverse qualified majority. i believe it was right to postpone the decision until further notice and to continue the negotiations. joseph daul has said here that we need a convincing economic policy package to have a stable euro. the core of this is the stability and growth pact. he needs teeth, and that's why this negotiation will have to go on. there are a number of other policy areas in which you have been very successful during your presidency: croatia has been mentioned, the conclusion of the accession negotiations. i can only agree with what mr swoboda said: this is a very important step forward for the whole region. the consumer rights directive has finally been completed after three years. the energy efficiency plan has been advanced. and then a very important point from our point of view, also from the point of view of small and mediumsized enterprises in europe, is the european patent. a whole series of really remarkable achievements of your presidency! mr president, when we met in budapest we told you that we would assess your presidency fairly, but we would also look at what is happening in your country. from the point of view of our liberal group, we regret that your presidency has been overshadowed by the controversy over the media law. we would have liked a different media law. the commission has indeed made changes in this area, but we do not believe that it has done so in the core areas. we would also have liked the constitution-making process to have gone as the venice commission had proposed. i believe that this vigilance of other europeans must continue to apply to every member state - and indeed to my own - if the european union is to move forward. freedom is dying slowly, whether it's freedom of the press or freedom of travel. in 15 minutes customs officers will be marching up to the german-danish and danish-swedish borders to re-establish border controls. this is a development on which we would have liked the presidency to have made a stronger statement. we would have liked to have seen a little more commitment from your presidency to this whole package - freedom of movement, asylum policy, revision of the dublin ii regulation, the attack on freedom of movement in the schengen area. all in all, you've had a successful presidency. we would have liked it if it had not been overshadowed by the criticisms mentioned.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the hungarian presidency was very successful, considering the challenges. the council presidency is a very important institution, and it is a very important institution, and it is a very important institution, and it is a very important institution. i would like to pass on the compliment, mr prime minister, to your minister for europe, mrs győri, who was here day and night and really made a good impression. i would therefore also like to counter mr ransdorf's point: how can a presidency make sensible proposals when the big member states in particular are constantly blocking? there are many examples of this. given these challenges, it has done very well. if we take the applause of mr farage or the speech of mr zahradil or that of mr swoboda, of mr cohn-bendit, where are the gentlemen? all four of them are gone. they've submitted their paper and they don't even want to hear your answer. this is not fair to each other, to the hungarian presidency. (applause from the centre) of course, you had to solve domestic problems. of course there have been discussions. but if i look at the contribution of mr swoboda, who did not at all address the content of the agenda of this hungarian presidency, it was a pure diversion. mr cohn-bendit, even mr orbán, with all his ability, cannot solve the problems of the world, from china to north africa. you have done a good job with the presidency, and if you consider that the regulatory frenzy of brussels has also been criticised here, then i cannot readily contradict your remarks quoted here, because in brussels the commission has often acted as if the challenges had not changed. it's been wrestling like it's always been wrestling. if we can curb the nationalism of some member states and limit the patronage of citizens, then this hungarian presidency of the council was the right way forward and a good success. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have not read the opinion of the venice commission. i don't know hungarian either. i have read many reviews that say that the hungarian constitution is one of the most modern constitutions in europe, and i think that should be recognised here. the self-righteousness of some of the members of this parliament who have just been voted out is truly appalling! (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. europe's response to green genetic engineering is different from america's. we know very well that green genetic engineering is widely used in the united states, canada, but also in argentina and brazil. but eurobarometer also tells us that the vast majority of people in europe are sceptical to opposed. it would therefore be wrong to impose green genetic engineering on the member states from brussels. that would be wrong and would not be accepted! i think parliament is moving in the direction of the commission that this responsibility, this responsibility, is being transferred to the member states and that each state must decide for itself whether it wants to release gm plants into the environment or not. it is a pity that we do not have unity in europe, but that is the reality. i believe that this is the right approach now, because the countries that do not want gmos should not be forced to use them. now we need legal certainty as to the grounds on which the rejection is made. the commission has given some reasons, but they are not enough. there are gaps. the lepage report fills precisely these gaps in environmental aspects. we have completely different ecosystems, different environmental cultures. the report is going in exactly the right direction. i hope he gets through! we're all behind him. what we also need is freedom of choice for farmers and consumers alike. commissioner, we urgently need a regulation on the gap between gmo and conventional crops, but the lepage report must be approved by a majority in the plenary tomorrow!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that our decision today marks a dark day for the european single market. we are abandoning the idea of the single market out of a pure anti-technology reflex. obviously, this seems to be the fashion in the eu today. we are criticizing denmark today for denouncing the schengen agreement for populist reasons. basically, we're doing the same thing now. we should be clear about what we're doing now. we are in fact continuing to allow efsa to authorise genetically modified organisms for the internal market, but at the same time we are giving member states the right to deviate from these authorisation criteria. i hope that this does not serve as a lesson for other decisions on the internal market in the future. we should take a step back and remember that we should not give up the european idea at every opportunity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner, in fact, would like to see stricter rules for the cultivation of genetically modified organisms throughout europe. the lepage report is only the second best solution, but it is moving in the right direction. it is certainly better than the commission's proposal. this is because of the changes made by the environment committee. we need clear rules for coexistence, freedom of choice for farmers and consumers, and we need clear liability rules to protect non-gmo farming. we can agree with the lepage report because it finally sets out clear rules on why member states can ban genetic engineering from their fields for environmental and socioeconomic reasons. so it's going in the right direction. it could be more, but it's acceptable. but, commissioner dalli, one thing must be made very clear on this point: you have still not fulfilled your commitment to reform efsa. there is no confidence in the genuinely independent work of efsa on genetic engineering, and until that confidence is established, ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i support the commission's proposal to allow member states to derogate from authorization under certain conditions which can be verified. today's debate is not about the pros and cons of gmos in general. the important thing is that the debate on national restrictions is not being conducted on the backs of farmers. the objective of this regulation, namely to ensure legal certainty, should not be limited to member states wishing to prohibit gmos on their territory. the farmers need just as much legal certainty. they need clear information on possible restrictions before the start of the growing season. above all, they need a clear threshold for traces of gmos. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. i hope that we will not drift arbitrarily apart on these sensitive questions of authorization throughout europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i made a mistake in the vote at the sitting on 9 june. i was not aware of this, but regardless, it was a mistake and not in accordance with the rules. i pressed the button of claude turmes and my own at the same time. some germans call it ironically "klöpfchen". i didn't want to do that, and i'm not gonna do it again. i'm sorry about that. mr langen raised it, the president reprimanded him. i wanted to apologize for that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take this opportunity of the honourable member's question to express my deep indignation at the statement made by mr orbán back home in hungary, that during his presidency he had to calm the impetuous european parliament by slapping it in the face and scratching its head on several occasions. this was reported from hungary. this is a provocation. (the president cut the speaker off) (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. the european parliament has just adopted amendments to the council's position on draft amending budget no 2/2011. in this context, in accordance with article 314 (4) (c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i give my consent to the convening of the conciliation committee by the president of the european parliament. i can assure you that the council will examine these amendments in a spirit of constructive cooperation and formally adopt its position as soon as possible, within the 10-day time limit provided for in the treaty, so that a meeting of the conciliation committee will not be necessary.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to ask, in accordance with rule 57 (2) of our rules of procedure, that we postpone the vote on the legislative resolution because we want to give the polish presidency of the council the opportunity to find a common solution with parliament at first reading. i would also like to thank the members for their broad support for this proposal and ask them to vote in favour of postponing the legislative resolution until september.
mr president, i would like to inform the house that voting in favour of the first part of the next amendment would mean voting against the energy and climate package of 2008. we have a lot of studies from the commission showing that fulfilling the climate package means a 25 % reduction, so i would like to ask the house to vote against this amendment.
mr president, the interpreting was too slow. you need to be allowed to stand up for longer if the interpreting takes a while.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. consumer protection laws are important, information must be fair, readily available and objective to the consumer. the european union is an economic union, a union of values and, of course, a union of consumer rights. this means that we must constantly adapt our consumer protection laws so that information is also accessible to consumers and the laws are respected everywhere. i think it is particularly important that we have this evaluation report, which acknowledges that we are on the way. we will also be constantly in contact with member states and consumers to check whether our coordination is adequate or worthy of improvement. that is why the 2014 evaluation report is a very important part of this report for me. that's why i agreed to it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i voted against the report not because i thought the commission's proposal was wrong, but because i saw it as an opportunity to get out of the situation that exists in the member states. we decided to do just the opposite. several years ago we passed legislation on gmos. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and now we've decided that coexistence for genetic engineering is absolutely not allowed. that is the decision that was taken today. so we have made a new decision which is contrary to our own decisions. because it's one thing to say we need a scientific foundation. this calls into question the efsa. it calls on the commissioner to restructure efsa. yes, my god, do we believe only what we hear somewhere, panic and ideological foundations? we should think about what we're doing here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not want to hide the fact that i am very critical of parliament's report and that is why i voted against it. i am afraid that the result will be a patchwork of different regulations in the individual countries. the fact that gmo products are already traded on the internal market makes national monopolies useless. europe is thus saying goodbye to a technology whose potential is worth exploring more closely. green genetic engineering offers great opportunities, but also risks. that's why we need an honest discussion about this in society and in business. that is why it is important that we thoroughly research and develop this technology responsibly. but you have to be allowed to do research. it is not without reason that europe has established one of the most stringent licensing procedures. in europe, no green genetic engineering product will be placed on the market unless it is guaranteed to be completely safe for human health and the environment, as the safety of people and the environment is of paramount importance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make three comments on the report. firstly, i think it is very regrettable to present the causes of climate change as monocausal, i.e. to look only at co2 emissions. the scientific research tells us that co2 is not the only cause. secondly, while minimising co2 emissions, consideration should also be given to resource efficiency, or consumption. it is still important to produce a given product with as little energy as possible and not just to look at co2 emissions. thirdly, i am also in favour of setting ambitious targets, but they must also be realistic, and we must do this together in this world, because our world is indivisible. it is of no use to take measures to reduce production in one country or sector of the economy and then to produce the same amount of production in another with much higher emissions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we voted today on the goeren report, and i believe that it is going in the right direction, because for the first time in the history of the european union we have concluded in the field of development policy with unconditional faith in budgetary aid, that is to say, for the first time we have stated in a report that it is right not to simply give money to administrations, to states, even to governments, without sanctions, without criteria to be controlled. this is the way! i am not entirely sure that the commissioner has been able to give us the information we need to make a decision on the matter. we must change this so that we can make it clear to our voters, to the taxpayers, in a credible way, what we are spending money on in development aid.
in writing. - i have approved the report. after many years, the fact that the single emergency number 112 is available throughout europe and also via the mobile network is a great success. in the long term, it is still necessary to make provision for all telecommunications providers to offer this number free of charge to the national states. the overall action clearly shows a european added value.
in writing. - i have approved the report. a fair, open and equitable internal market is one of the european union's growth engines. this growth is vital in a global market. this interesting dossier was unfortunately moved by the parliament's administration to the night and was only considered for 16 minutes. the socialist and green groups have not even named speakers, which does not do justice to the importance of the internal market.
in writing. - i have approved the report. there is an urgent need for strict binding rules and standards for high-risk financial products in the future. i see this as the beginning of a more orderly and less risky financial economy, which will then perhaps grow a little more slowly, but which will involve much more solidity. the reporting of derivatives is also crucial to enable supervisors to have an overview of financial markets. a transaction register and a central clearing house will provide transparency as a first step.
in writing. - after much thought and consideration of all the information, i have decided to reject the report. in my opinion, it does not solve the genetic problem, but exacerbates it. we need a common european solution to this problem, not a renationalisation. such renationalisation is contrary to the objective of an eu internal market. it also weakens the eu's position in future wto negotiations. we need a comprehensive solution which gives both the consumer and the farmer freedom of choice, guarantees the principle of proportionality and finally also deals with the question of coexistence in a practical way.
in writing. - a uniform ban on gmos in all member states remains my objective. because we cannot estimate the impact of genetically modified organisms on our health. this technology is too young for that. the fact that it's spreading so fast is the root of the problem. once we introduce them, we can't get rid of them. i therefore welcome the adoption today of a report which makes it possible to ban gmos and which strengthens the rights of consumers. once again we are strengthening the rights of consumers, more than the member states do. the labelling of gmos, which was adopted last year, was an achievement of the european parliament, not the council of ministers. with this report we are now enabling member states to ban gmos because of concerns about pesticide resistance, for example. the fact that the concern of the world trade organization for the health of our people is not enough reason to ban it makes me have serious doubts about this institution.
in writing. - after much thought and consideration of all the information, i have decided to reject the report. in my opinion, it does not solve the genetic problem, but exacerbates it. we need a common european solution to this problem, not a renationalisation. such renationalisation is contrary to the objective of an eu internal market. it also weakens the eu's position in future wto negotiations. we need a comprehensive solution which gives both the consumer and the farmer freedom of choice, guarantees the principle of proportionality and finally settles the question of coexistence in a practical way.
in writing. - i am committed to climate action, but to realistic climate action, combining sustainability and economic development, and so i voted against this report. why exactly? the eu's climate/energy package has agreed the conditions for an increase in our reduction commitments. we should support this, also in our efforts to ensure investment security. the un climate negotiations will be hardly affected by this increase in our targets. the research we are trying to achieve, especially after germany's nuclear phase-out, is lacking. i appreciate the opportunities that energy efficiency offers and i called for a binding energy efficiency target in the 2009 climate report. however, i am opposed to attempts to reopen the debate on eu reduction commitments by using the energy efficiency route, through the back door, so to speak, to change the agreed cornerstones for the emissions trading system but not to demand binding efficiency targets. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and has recently launched a new initiative to improve the quality of the environment. we must ensure that we do not discredit our partners with such demands, especially those who are reluctant to join us. the only way we're going to convince people is if we prove that climate action is not just a competition of numbers, but an opportunity to build societies and economies that are truly sustainable.
in writing. - i am pleased that the unrealistic and tightened targets did not find a majority. the european parliament has voted by a large majority against a unilateral increase in the eu target. the fact that this ultimately led to the rejection of the whole report is not a big problem. a new edition of the debate will follow. studies on how and under what conditions a 30% target could be achieved have not been carried out. there is also no certainty about how we can meet our commitments and whether our emissions trading system really works. i also do not see the threat of tightening up energy efficiency targets as realistic.
in writing. - i voted against the creation of another category of aid. the new category is not only expensive, it is also detrimental to the economic development of the european union! at least one third of the current objective 1 regions would fall into this category. this would require considerably more european funding than the usual transitional support for regions which are doing well. with the new european money, the regions would have no reason to develop further on the contrary, all the better-off regions would have a very good reason to increase their economic performance by no more than 90% of eu gdp there would be less european money in wages! i would therefore like to make it clear that i do not support this new category.
in writing. − in the next funding period from 2013 to 2020, the european parliament wants to introduce stricter rules and more transparency for eu structural funds. this is a very important objective. the commission has also proposed that the national distribution centres should first undergo a european certification procedure. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant aid only if they correctly implement eu law. the report provides for a significant increase in the funding of european border regions, which will help the eu to grow closer together. unfortunately, it has not been possible to prevent the new intermediate category of 90 to 75% of gdp assisted areas, which would theoretically cost an additional 20 billion. this proposal by the greens and the socialists destroys any incentive to use subsidies for structural improvements. this is a classic sleeping car category.
in writing. - i abstained because, on the one hand, i know and appreciate the importance of cohesion policy, with its direct impact and impact on the ground, but on the other hand, it has not been possible to establish the so-called 'safety net' for the regions that will withdraw from the convergence objective. the abrupt withdrawal of support in the event of a withdrawal from the convergence objective would call into question the achievements already made in the regions concerned and would undermine the further strengthening of their competitiveness. despite visible progress, considerable efforts are still needed to achieve the goal of a self-sustaining economic structure. development backlogs such as too little r & d capacity in the private sector, too little integration into international economic cycles, insufficient equity in enterprises and severe demographic disadvantages will not be overcome by 2013. it is of course gratifying to be no longer among the poorest regions, but we do not want to be lumped in with those regions which have not made the same effort or are not facing the same conditions. the magic word for me is therefore 'appropriate' follow-up, not 'same'.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the debate we are having today is the beginning of a decisive debate on the future of the eu. the budget is a mirror of what politicians expect from a state or a federation of states, or what they allow, what a federation of states such as ours is supposed to do. the commission says our approach is ambitious and bold. yes, i want to emphasize that, although - and i forgive you, mr barroso - you are of course presenting the figures a little more beautifully than they are from our point of view. we're not that far apart, but you have to call the numbers by their name: today, on average, 1.12% of the gross domestic product of the member states is available. in your draft, it will be 1.05 percent in the future. that doesn't sound like much. the fact is, after our initial analysis, you're freezing the budget based on today's figure. we shall have to come back to this point because the member states, on the other hand, expect the commission to take on a much broader range of responsibilities. you gave several examples: it is not just the iter fusion reactor, which i consider superfluous, it is not just galileo, it is not just the foreign service, it is not just the building of our future partner democracies in north africa. there are many other points which should be financed in addition - with less money! the commission has put forward a bold proposal, if you look at the member states. the attitude of the member states, especially the large net contributors, is easy to describe: more european work with less money! it's not gonna work! the commission's proposal is a very good one, but it is not the only one. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the budget, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the epp, the social democrats and the greens are all sitting behind me, concentrated together - as you can see, the small epp conference around their table - they are all highly qualified colleagues, but it is a bit like football: an all-star squad is not yet an effective winning team. what we have to do is to get together in parliament so that we can develop a common line which will have a large majority in this parliament. if this line is close to what the commission has proposed, then we can achieve a high degree of complementarity between their strategy and our strategy. and this high level is necessary because there are governments in the european council, like the polish government, which is a pro-european government, a courageous government, a pro-parliamentary government! i want to make it clear to you, mr. minister: your speech here, however brief it was, has already shown that poland is a presidency that wants the european union to succeed. we had a debate this morning where you could have a different impression of an end-of-presidency. that is an encouraging path you want to take with us. there are also governments like mr cameron's, who wants a different europe at 0.8% of gdp - but please, with the british rebate - a large free trade area, possibly without rules, but no political union! i do not want that europe, and i do not think the overwhelming majority of members of this house do either. the question of whether or not we get it depends on whether or not we get the ambitious medium-term budget of the european union through. so if the commission is courageous and parliament is effective, then we can defend europe on this issue and win the medium-term budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission's proposal is somewhere between the letter from the five heads of state or government and the very moderate and responsible proposals in the garriga report, which we adopted by a large majority in this house just four weeks ago. in this respect, the commission proposal is not clumsy in all its aspects, even if it does not fully reflect the priorities of parliament. we'll have to do a lot of calculating and comparing. i would also say that the figures presented by the commission, with a doubling of the outsourcing of funds and specific projects, are very questionable on the one hand, because the question is: where do the payments actually come from? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, the proposal is a mirror for the member states, because they want to refuse themselves certain funds, and thus automatically put certain projects of european added value at risk. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. the proposal leaves foreign, security, neighbourhood and development policies underfunded, and yet the heads of state and government at the last summit said: we are committed to the millennium development goals, even though we know that they do not want to meet them and will not meet them. it doesn't add up! i say again: the refusal to have an open and unbiased debate on own resources is contrary to the spirit and the letter of the treaty! it's that simple, ladies and gentlemen. the commission is making a very sensible gesture in its treaty commitments to show european solidarity and to promote the eu 2020 strategy's growth-oriented 'lighthouse' projects. and now it is important, and i am addressing this to the polish presidency, that we give life to what you have promised us, that it is clear that the procedure for approving the multiannual financial framework will be drawn up jointly so that at the end of the procedure we can also say yes and not confront the european public with a no. it is up to the council, it is up to the commission, whether they are serious about a sensible and better cooperation with parliament than has been the case in the past.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we share the commission's basic philosophy that it is about austerity, but also about new investment in the future. the fact that there is only zero growth in management and personnel indicates that people have understood how difficult times are. however, we as greens criticize that many planned expenditures are still not sustainable, not ecological enough. the eu 2020 strategy also calls for much more decisive action. i would like to emphasize again that the question of own resources means going back to the basis of the european treaty, that we are not just transferring one per cent of the gross domestic product of the nation states, but that there are real own resources. you do have a decisive advantage. the financial transaction tax is more democratic, it is more transparent, it does not mean more taxes for european citizens. but it does ensure something that the majority of european citizens want, namely that financial markets are properly involved and that this tax helps to regulate financial markets too. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. president barroso presented the commission's legislative proposal as ambitious but realistic and sensible. if you had listened to the negative and extremely critical reactions from various capitals of our wonderful european union, you might have believed that. but when you read the proposal - and this is what parliament does, as opposed to parts of the government and large sections of the journalists - you get the very clear impression that the days when the commission had to be seen as the motor of european integration and development are finally over. the commission has fallen short of parliament's expectations, both in terms of the structure of the budget and the level of expenditure, and in terms of the depth of the reform of the own resources system. example of revenue: parliament has said that we want our budget to be entirely financed by own resources, as laid down in the treaty, and that is why we want to replace the transfers from the member states in full. at the same time, we want to end all discounts. what is the commission doing? it proposes that less than half of the contributions from the member states be replaced by genuine own resources and that the rebates should no longer be calculated but be granted as a lump sum. oh, my god! i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. we in parliament had hoped to have the commission on our side in the negotiations with the council as the guardian of a europe-centred policy approach, but now we are faced with the necessary confrontations with very mixed feelings.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. after almost three years of intensive work, after well over 3000 amendments, after countless talks, discussions, debates, after the most difficult technical negotiations and political trilogues, it is now time to vote on the political package, the great compromise between the european parliament and the council of ministers on the future of food labelling. this regulation aims to provide consumers with more and better information on foodstuffs in order to enable them to make an informed purchasing decision. but that is not all: the european food industry should also benefit. the aim is to ensure legal certainty, reduce bureaucracy and improve legislation. this is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is important to know that the food sector in the european union is made up of more than 80% smes. at the same time, this labelling must be appropriate for every food and non-alcoholic beverage, from basic food to highly processed ready-to-eat food. that is why it is not possible to make compulsory labelling in traffic lights, because this labelling does not apply to basic foodstuffs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. allergens will be visible at first glance. the vegetable origin of vegetable oils shall be indicated. there is a designation of origin for pigmeat, poultrymeat, sheepmeat and goatmeat. for other products, an impact assessment will show whether and how the origin can be indicated, e.g. for milk and milk products, single ingredients, i.e. products consisting of one main ingredient, meat in processed products, etc. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the products are clearly identified on the front and that the same applies to minced meat and to minced fish assembled from small pieces. also, packaging must not give the impression that something is inside that is not. if there's a picture of fruit on a yogurt, there must be fruit in it, not just coloring and flavoring. in addition, the mandatory indication of the main nutrients is provided, always per 100 g or 100 ml for reasons of comparability. the water added to meat must be marked, the date of first freezing of meat and fish must be marked, and many other details must be given. the most important thing is that all the information must be legible. we have defined legibility, we have set a minimum font size and we have asked the commission to set binding rules for other factors such as the contrast between the font and the background. at the same time, we protect the craft from excessive costs and red tape. unprepacked fresh produce may have to provide allergen information but not the complete nutritional information to be obtained by expensive analysis. the commission originally wanted this, but that would have destroyed our national and regional specificities and specialties, it would have led to the creation of a single european dough, and that is why we have prevented this. but now we have all agreed, and the serious consumer advocates are quite satisfied with what has been achieved. i would therefore like to thank all those involved, the shadow rapporteurs, the commission, and in particular commissioner dalli, for his statements, which i hope he will make shortly and which will help to break the knot that has been formed in our political discourse. and i am particularly grateful to the hungarian presidency of the council for having achieved something that was almost unexpected, almost the square of the circle: the agreement on this regulation. (applause from the centre)
acting president of the council. - it's a great pleasure to join you in the debate today. it brings to an end four years of discussions on a regulation on the provision of food information to consumers. it's really a debate about the inalienable rights of the consumer to information. these discussions have not been easy, but they have been worth the effort. the regulation brings clear benefits to eu consumers and is an important step towards ensuring that food products purchased in the european union contain clear, readable and useful information. the constructive attitude of your parliament has contributed greatly to the success of our negotiations. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mrs renate sommer, the co-rapporteurs and all those who worked on this report. and of course, i also thank all the previous presidents, and there were six. it was their work that paved the way for a compromise package that i hope will be put to a vote tomorrow. i have no doubt that the provisions contained in this text will enable consumers to make more informed, healthier dietary choices without imposing additional burdens on market operators. all three institutions were able to reach a very important compromise on a number of issues: labels will be more legible because of the minimum font size, packaged food will now have to contain nutrition information and mandatory allergen information, and unpackaged food, usually sold through personal contact between the seller and the consumer, will be subject to more flexible rules established in the member states. in order not to place an undue burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, unpackaged food and products produced by hand or in small enterprises are exempted from labelling obligations. in the case of distance selling, almost all information will have to be provided before the final purchase is made. we also managed to reach indirect compromises on three labelling issues, on which the commission is continuing to work. these issues concern alcoholic beverages, the indication of the country of origin of additional foods and the indication of the presence of trans fatty acid isomers in a food product. the commission shall report on these issues within three years of the entry into force of the regulation and may also submit its own legislative proposals, where appropriate. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this regulation provides a number of benefits to consumers: it increases transparency and, by simplifying the current labelling requirements, it helps to improve the enforcement of eu law. the polish presidency is keen to see this legislation come into force as soon as possible. we hope that after the usual review by lawyers and linguists, the council will be able to adopt it at the beginning of october. this would mean that the act could be published in the official journal of the european union before the end of october this year.
member of the commission. − madam president, more than three years ago, on 30 january 2008, the commission adopted its proposal for a regulation on food information to consumers. now we are reaching a conclusion on this important regulation. i am grateful, in particular, to the rapporteur, dr sommer, for her hard work and commitment towards finding a compromise with the council. let me also thank all shadow rapporteurs for their active and fruitful involvement. last but not least, let me thank the hungarian presidency, and the other presidencies which preceded it, which were very active and did an excellent job in finding compromises that are acceptable for the council as a whole. i am pleased to see that the parliament shares the commission’s vision to establish a general framework for the provision of food information which puts consumers first. with this text, we ensure that our approach to food information is both forward-looking and sufficiently flexible to respond to future developments. our common work during the past months has been rewarded in several areas. let me highlight some of them: firstly, the introduction of a minimum font size for mandatory information will improve the legibility of food labels – one of the main complaints in this area. secondly, mandatory nutrition information will help consumers identify the foods that meet their personal preferences or dietary requirements. third, mandatory information on all food on substances causing food allergies or intolerances – not only pre-packed foods but also non-pre-packed foods and foods sold in restaurants – will ensure better protection of consumer health. highlighting allergens in the list of ingredients will also help consumers to identify them more easily. fourthly, the move to mandatory origin labelling will provide consumers with more transparency with regard to the food they buy. to ensure that consumers are given meaningful information and that the new rules are enforceable, commissioner cioloş – my colleague responsible for agriculture – and i will pay particular attention to the implementing rules. although the new legislation improves matters for consumers and food business operators alike, i regret to see that the ‘front of pack’ nutrition declaration – an important part of the initial commission proposal – has been deleted. this reduces the benefits of including nutrition information for consumers. the framework for the voluntary inclusion of nutrition information on the front of packs, including other forms of expression, is, however, a step in the right direction. this provides the basis for further consideration of this issue in the future. i also regret to see that alcoholic beverages have been totally exempted from the ingredient and nutrition labelling requirements. i believe that consumers are entitled to receive appropriate information when they consume alcoholic beverages. i will seek to ensure that we strike the right balance in this area in the context of the future report. finally, there are four statements that have been requested by either the parliament or the council: firstly, a declaration by the commission on information on the method of slaughter of animals. the parliament and the council have noted that european consumers show an interest in the implementation of the eu animal welfare rules at the time of slaughter, including whether the animal was stunned before slaughter. we are also aware of the sensitivity that this has with certain sectors of our society. a study on whether to provide consumers with relevant information on stunning animals before slaughter will be considered in the context of the future eu strategy for protection and welfare of animals. secondly, a declaration by the commission on aspartame. on 4 may 2011 the commission asked the european food safety authority (efsa) to perform a full re-evaluation of the safety of aspartame. efsa accepted this request and the scientific assessment is expected to be completed by september 2012. the commission will ensure that efsa will also consider the effect of aspartame on pregnant women. in the light of efsa’s opinion, the commission will consider whether there is a need to review existing legislation on aspartame and, if necessary, will undertake appropriate legal measures, such as revising maximum permitted levels and/or requiring the provision of relevant information to consumers. thirdly, a declaration by the commission on food colouring. the commission is working with the member states on developing guidelines on the classification of food extracts with colouring properties. the guidelines are expected to be finalised in the second half of 2012. the outcome of this technical work will provide the basis for refining the definition of food colouring and for enabling the provision of accurate information to consumers in relation to the use of food ingredients with colouring properties. fourthly, a statement by the commission on food pre-packed for direct sale. the status of food pre-packed for direct sale in terms of hygiene requirements and the provision of food information in this respect will be considered in the context of the future revision of the food hygiene package. finally, i would also like to make the following statement on the institutional aspect of the text: the commission underlines that it is contrary to the letter and to the spirit of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission’s exercise of implementing powers) to invoke article 5(4), subparagraph 2, point (b) in a systematic manner. recourse to this provision must respond to a specific need to depart from the rule of principle, which is that the commission may adopt a draft implementing act when no opinion is delivered. given that it is an exception to the general rule established by article 5 paragraph 4, recourse to subparagraph 2, point (b) cannot be simply seen as a ‘discretionary power’ of the legislator, but must be interpreted in a restrictive manner and thus must be justified. this being said, the compromise package on which you will vote tomorrow is a significant step forward in the area of food information.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs renate sommer, and thank all those who helped to bring about the agreement, especially commissioner john dalli and the hungarian presidency. i have followed the legislative process from the beginning, and it is true: it was very difficult, there were very different positions and interests. but i think the result is a good result. we will provide the consumer with better and clearer information, but we will not patronize the consumer and tell him what he can and cannot eat. i would like to stress the agreement on the imitations. it has always been very important to us in the group that food should not give the impression that it is made up of a particular staple food, when it is not. in other words, cheese must be made from milk. if it contains other vegetable fats, for example, it will have to be clearly labelled in future. here, too, it was not easy to find the right solution. the council argued that the mandatory designation 'imitation' could lead the companies concerned to say: 'this is not an imitation, this is an innovative product'. but if you mention the ingredient that is not normally included, then i think that's a big improvement. consumers are no longer fooled by food limits, and this can also help farmers, such as dairy farmers, to get better prices for their products again. it is very important that in the future you don't normally need a magnifying glass to see the ingredients, that we have fixed the readability and that we have also kept an eye on small and medium-sized enterprises. we have always had nestlé, ferrero and others in mind, but the small baker, the small restaurant and the direct marketer on the farm have to be able to deal with it, and we have also found a good solution for that. congratulations and thank you very much!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would have liked our colleagues to have been a little more courageous and to have dared to go through a second reading and then a conciliation procedure - under whatever presidency. no front-of-pack labeling, no calorie labeling on the front, no labeling of even the calories of alcohol, let alone any other ingredient, no serving size for anything, not a spoon or a cup or anything. none of that is in the compromise. the country of origin, which consumers are anxious to know, is completely inadequate. the content of article 25 is linked, as everything else, to the commission's test orders: test orders for trans fats, test orders for a product containing a substance, test orders for everything else. these are first- and second-class funerals. that's not a good result. that was gutless. i would have liked to have had a proper second reading and, if necessary, to have gone through the conciliation procedure. that would have been a decent result. the european consumers can only be disappointed!
member of the commission. − mr president, it is crucial to show that the european union is willing and able to produce legislation that really empowers citizens in their daily life. information is the lifeblood of empowerment, and i predict, in agreement with mr gerbrandy, that improved technology will in the future – in the very near future, i hope – enable us to give more timely information to consumers on what is being offered for their consumption. i have noted the insistence by some members on the issue of enforcement. in connection with both the issue of animal slaughter without stunning and the issue of imitation products, the question of enforcement was emphasised. this, i believe, is the key. i am a firm believer that, even before coming up with new rules, new legislation and new regulation, we have to really ensure that what we have today is being properly enforced. i believe that our efforts and our resources should be more and more applied to ensuring enforcement. on imitation we also have to be very creative, and i agree here with ms de lange. we have to be careful that, while giving the correct information to consumers about the presence or absence of certain substances in a product, we are not giving the opportunity for creative marketeers to use our own regulation to defeat our own purposes, for example by emphasising the substances they then say – maybe in smaller print – the product does not contain. therefore we have to be very creative when we make our regulation in this regard. like ms liotard, i am also very disappointed that we have no regulation on cloning and no information on the cloning of animals. i believe that we lost an opportunity of starting on the right path to get this information in the near future. i believe that the proposals that we had on the table some weeks ago – although not they did not represent the final objective for most of us – were indicating to us the direction we should move in so as to finally come to a position where consumers would have this information telling them what they are consuming. again this is the key. i remember during my hearing before you in parliament that i made this statement in a very affirmative way. it is not a question of telling people what to eat. it is a question of telling people what they are eating and then letting them decide what they really want to do. on the language question, here we also have to be very careful. we have not changed the present regulation on language. we have to be careful because, if i understand correctly, the amendment that is being proposed would enable any country or district or region to impose one exclusive language on the packaging. here again, i believe this would defeat the purpose of information rather than improve the information flow to consumers. the new legislation represents a milestone in the european consumer’s right to information. with the conclusion of the legislative procedure we can now move to the next step, the implementation phase. a lot of work still remains to be done to ensure the full application of certain rules. i count on fruitful interinstitutional cooperation to ensure the pragmatic implementation of this regulation. i would like to thank again the rapporteur, dr sommer, and the shadow rapporteurs, for their great effort.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? ladies and gentlemen of the house! more than three years of debate and still a lot of doubts, still very different voices: from full support, through great doubts, to the very disappointment that mep tabajdi expressed. ladies and gentlemen! what we eat determines a lot of how we live. of course, as consumers, we have a right to know about the product we consume, if only so that our nutritional mistakes don't have to be corrected by mikolášik's colleagues. i also want to agree fully with the view that commissioner dalli has just expressed in his speech here, that consumers do not need to know from us what they are to eat, but have the right to know what they are eating. but the problem is that by labeling alone, we're not really forming good eating habits. i agree with mr zemke that a lot of work is needed, including consumer education, because unfortunately, describing products is not enough. i also want to agree with the commissioner that what we have today in the form of a compromise is a balance between the expectations and interests of consumers and the possibilities of farmers-producers and processors. i also want to stress very strongly that the issues that the commissioner has raised - the issue of slaughter, animal welfare, the issues related to cloned animals raised here by mrs liotard - are issues that also need to be clarified in separate legal acts in the future. you have been very vocal about the country of origin. i remember the discussion before the last enlargement, before 2004, when the new member states were clearly informed that country of origin labelling was nothing but trade protectionism. i am very happy that today, within the larger european union, we are coming to the point where we as consumers have the right to know where products come from. it is certainly worthwhile to label products originating from outside the european union first, because they are produced in the union according to the same standards and norms. of course, i think the issue of national labelling is an open one and needs to be discussed. the issue of counterfeiting is also important. this is too common a practice to ignore. it is therefore important that what is not animal fat is clearly labelled, and that what is not a food product but an additive or a flavouring is precisely labelled and labelled so that the consumer is fully aware of what he is eating. ladies and gentlemen! thank you for this discussion. i want to assure you that i will, of course, take all of your concerns and voices to the council.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. dear friends, we all wish we had more! everyone had other fantastic ideas. i too would have liked to have had the calorie count per 100 g or per 100 ml on the front of the pack. others had even more ambitious desires. but the essence of compromise is that everyone has to give a little bit somewhere, and that one is negotiated against the other. you may or may not like the details, but it's the only way to get to the bottom of it. i do not think it is right to work towards mediation in such a difficult case. those who are working towards a mediation - for example, through the amendment on the language question which will be tabled in the plenary tomorrow - want to destroy this draft regulation as it stands, they want to destroy this compromise. it is quite clear that this dossier would fail in a mediation as the novel foods regulation has failed recently. that is why all the rapporteurs of the political groups have contributed to this agreement. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs liotard, for her contribution to this, and also mr rossi for his group. so i don't understand at all that you're going to back down from that compromise and say, "oh, that's a terrible thing that came out of it. you can't take it with you. i can't congratulate you on that. this is not enough. then why did you agree to it? you helped to shape this compromise. i'm grateful for that, too. it all sounds a little like "wash me, but don't wet me". that is a kind of populism on your part. this is not right! we want to do something for the consumer here, and this is an important thing for the consumer. it's not perfect, no. there could be more, yes. there are still many things to be done during the transitional period until this regulation is finally implemented. i am confident that the commission will find a solution. and that she'll be doing research on alcohol and finally providing a definition of alcoops. we shall come to a very good solution and i ask you to support this dossier, this political compromise, tomorrow.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i cannot tell you how many times i have spoken in this house over the last 14 or 15 years on topics such as bse or tse or animal health and, above all, consumer protection and human health. i was chairman of the bse control committee in 1997, and since then i have had the opportunity to speak on this subject probably 20, 30 or 40 times. we have a report to discuss today and vote on tomorrow which deals with another road map, a commission road map. i must take this opportunity to thank the european commission, commissioner dalli and his colleagues, once again for their cooperation. it has been of a constant, high quality in all the years since we have been dealing with bse, and i am grateful for that. it wasn't always like this. if this had been the case in the 1980s and 1990s, we might have had fewer problems, but that has changed in recent years, thank god. the roadmap covers key technical aspects, but it also contains some parts of high political importance. i would like to mention some of them, but i cannot go into all of them in the short time available. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have already adopted a number of amendments to the legislation on bse and tses in recent years, and rightly so, considering that in 2001 there were still 2 167 cases of animals suffering from bse in the european union, and in 2009 only 67. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have to deal with the question tomorrow: do we want to go on this way? i have made some proposals which have aspects which are still relevant to reducing the risk of bse and tse, but i would like to focus on one proposal here, namely the question of banning the feeding of animal meal to omnivores which are not ruminants, i.e. not to sheep and goats and cattle. in 2001, in the light of the bse crisis and the bse scandal, the feeding of animal meal to pigs and poultry in particular was banned. it was never about the scientific aspects, it was always about the political decision. at that point, you had to say, "it's been contaminated animal meal fed to cattle, highly unethical, ruminants who are herbivores should not eat animal meal!" the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not used in the same way as the foodstuffs of other countries. i now propose that you - just as the european commission is doing - go back and say: if we can make these products safe, then we must also be able to feed them. it doesn't make sense that we eat only about a third of an animal, and then we don't eat the rest of that healthy animal that's good for our food, but we can't use it for the food of other animals. that is why we have to change this regulation, we are importing a high level of protein crops soy from the usa and brazil, all genetically modified. that can't be the alternative! we must have our own supply in the european union, which must be of high quality, safe and of good quality. the production method must be in accordance with the relevant standards, and we must also ensure that there is no cross-cannibalism, that pigs are fed only animal meal from poultry and poultry are fed only animal meal from pigs. the commission can ensure that. i hope that tomorrow, after the cooperation has been very collegial, we will decide this next step towards normalization by a large majority!
member of the commission. − mr president, i am pleased to have this opportunity to discuss this important report on eu legislation on tse and related feed and food controls. i would like to begin by congratulating ms roth-behrendt on her excellent work. as a result of the enormous efforts made over recent years, the european union has made impressive progress in its battle against bse. we are – at last – about to eradicate the disease thanks to the strong and comprehensive eu measures to prevent and control it. the results of our intensive monitoring programme continue to show a significant overall decrease in the number of cases of the disease across the eu. furthermore, the mean age of positive bse cases in healthy slaughtered animals in the eu has increased. this supports the belief that bse contamination occurred during a well-defined period in the past, before the stringent measures came into force at community level. given this positive trend and new scientific knowledge, we are now at the stage where further amendments of certain measures could be envisaged without endangering consumer health or changing our bse eradication policy. it was on this basis that the commission took the initiative to prepare its communication, ‘the tse road map 2’ which was adopted and presented to you last july. ‘the tse road map 2’ is a reflection paper on future amendments over the short, medium and long term. i should be clear, however, that it will not change our overall policy to protect all consumers at all times. let me touch briefly on the main topics of this communication. one of the key issues is the review of the total feed ban provisions, which have now been in place for over 10 years. i am fully aware of the expected impact that a future revision of the total feed ban would have, and that is why i have decided to launch discussions with various stakeholders. i must, however, make absolutely clear that all conditions, including scientific support and appropriate control tools, must be in place before any amendments can be adopted. in this respect, i am pleased that parliament’s position is in line with that of the commission. another issue is the revision of bse surveillance. some progress has already been made in this respect insofar as 25 member states are authorised – as from 1 july 2011 – to revise their annual bse monitoring programmes based on a scientific opinion of the european food safety authority. i take careful note of the fact that parliament is concerned about a further rise in the age limits for testing cattle and i assure you i will keep this house informed of any future initiative in this domain. rules for the removal of specified risk materials, srms, the most important measure in terms of protection of public health against bse, would also be amended in future to align them with international standards. however, this would only be possible if supported by robust scientific facts. i will firmly defend a step-by-step and science-based approach for any future revision of tse measures: the scientific advice provided by efsa will continue to play a crucial role in the consideration of future policy options. allow me now to tackle two specific issues touched upon in your report. the first is the use of mechanically separated meat, msms. again, i am pleased that parliament’s position on this is in line with ours. i should add that the commission services have already started to discuss with member states how to harmonise the interpretation of ‘msm’ to ensure a more informed approach across the european union. this will be addressed in a guidance document or, if appropriate, by legislative amendments. the second concerns food and feed controls and the shortcomings identified in the collection and presentation of data on official controls in member states. on this point, the commission, in close cooperation with member states, will soon propose a number of actions to ensure that the way in which information on controls is collected, analysed and presented at eu level, is more efficient and comprehensive. finally, i want to underline that our future strategy will not lose sight of other threats to animal and public health which have emerged in recent years, such as antimicrobial resistance. the balance of evidence points towards a need to better prioritise actions towards diseases that may have a bigger impact than tses in terms of public health, economy and society. the encouraging trends in relation to bse merit a considered review of the opportunities to focus on, and secure, financial support to assess and manage these new threats. to conclude, let me once again thank ms roth-behrendt, and all the committee on the environment, public health and food safety members for their work in preparing this valuable report. it will contribute positively to the debate on future measures for tse, and other related food and food aspects. i look forward to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur for including the shadow rapporteurs in the debate very early on. this resulted in a good report. i thank you again. it was a very good collaboration. the development of bse/tse has already been described, and the old colleagues - not because of their age, but because they have been here for a long time - know what we discussed in 1990 and how we acted at that time. i have to say that i did not believe at the time that the legislation we passed at the time would have this success. but it did, and we got a very good result. the rapporteur has already explained how the figures have fallen. it is therefore logical that the commission now presents a new report based on this very development. so it is right that we make a change here, especially with the very costly procedures that we have put in place. i can only agree with the rapporteur. the feeding ban was a political decision. we could have restricted ourselves to a ban on feeding animal protein to ruminants. then we would have had that, too. i therefore think it is right that we should now allow an opening, of course under the criteria set out in the report. i am going a little further than the rapporteur on the subject of changes in the age of animals. we should be following the commission's proposal: 72 months, that is something we can support. i've made a change in the feeding area that may cause irritation. i therefore want to delete the wording 'for human consumption' in paragraph 7 of part 3 of the separate vote tomorrow. now, this may sound a little crazy at the moment, but there's a passage in the animal health legislation that says that certain parts of an animal are automatically unfit, but they're fit for feeding to animals, so in the dry feed area. we should take this into account and not call for a new development here. the research funds must be used more in this area. we need a new development in the ante-mortem examination to better identify the disease.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me once again thank the parliament for this valuable report. when considering matters relating to bse, the protection of consumers is my main goal. it is of overriding importance when considering any changes to the current rules. however, i do not agree with a ‘do nothing and keep the status quo’ attitude. we cannot live in the past. it is our duty to revise any regulation or measure that we have adopted in the past for precautionary reasons and see whether it is still applicable in the current situation. scientific advice from efsa and other national institutions has told us that we can move on. we are not moving on simply because of protein deficits. we are moving on because it is our belief that it is safe to move on, and the advice we have received has been unequivocal in this regard. i appreciate mr nicholson’s advice to move judiciously on these matters and this is what we will be doing. for this reason, the commission will remain alert and continue to monitor the bse situation very closely. a re-emergence of the disease cannot be ruled out if we fail to remain vigilant. member states also have their share of responsibility in this domain and should not be complacent. we must not forget the past – even if we are heading firmly in the right direction. i am fully committed to working with member states and parliament towards achieving our common goal of maintaining the very highest standard of food safety.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to conclude by referring once again to the question of the feeding ban introduced in 2001. i understand if you haven't all been working on this subject with the same intensity over the last 15 years, but it's still important to know: bse has arisen from the unlawful and illegal feeding of cattle with undeclared feed containing ruminants, i.e. sheep have been infected with scrapie in animal meal and have thus infected the same species, namely ruminants. in this report, which i am sure you have all read - and i am saying this to my colleagues grossetête, rivasi and also werthmann - it does not say that ruminants may be processed into animal meal. this species is specifically excluded. only pigs and poultry are processed into animal meal. even if there were those mean farmers mrs rivasi spoke of, those nasty farmers who illegally do something they are not allowed to do, namely feed pigmeal to the cattle, nothing would happen to the cattle. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. mrs rivas's colleague, mr häusling, has produced an excellent report on the protein deficit in the european union. it is not possible that we throw away parts of an animal that we eat because we cannot and do not want to process the rest that is fit for human consumption. we did that until 2001. the correct response would have been to say: continue to use animal meal, but no more processing of cattle and sheep into animal meal. that would have been clean. but as always, we have gone a little overboard and exaggerated the populism a little. but today is the time to correct that. ten years later, we can say that animal meal is a valuable source of protein, as valuable as soybeans from brazil and the united states, and perhaps better than creating monocultures there and introducing genetically modified plants into the european union. i ask you to be very united as a parliament tomorrow. i'm really lobbying for support for my proposal!
member of the commission. − i welcome the opportunity to discuss human rights and our trade agreement with colombia and peru in line with the fundamental values the eu holds dear. let me start by saying very clearly that there is no leniency in the commission in any form whatsoever on such grave matters. we are fully aware that threats and attacks against human rights activists in colombia continue and i deplore them. in the specific and tragic case of mrs córdoba the colombian government has not only unequivocally condemned her killing but has also offered a reward for any information leading to the identification of her killer. it is also taking measures to strengthen the safety of victims as well as activists and their leaders. on every possible occasion the eu is actively raising the issue of human rights and in particular the need to guarantee the personal safety of human rights defenders in colombia. only last week the eu held a human rights dialogue with the colombian authorities in bogotá and raised individual cases in this context. the parties also discussed the land restitution law and ways to combat impunity. two weeks ago i personally raised the human rights issued with president santos to tell him how close this is to the heart of the people in the eu and their elected representatives. he gave me an unequivocal response that the course that he has set for his country towards the full restoration of law, in the practice of respect for human democracy and the rule of law, is definite and resolute. i assure you the colombians know that the commission means business when it comes to approving their human rights record. now as regards the agreement with colombia, it is the view of the commission that the eu would be overlooking its responsibilities if it were to walk away from an enhanced economic partnership with colombia. if we were to do so we would fail to support the transition of this country from a culture of conflict and violence to a society of freedom and opportunity. there is indeed not a single doubt in my mind that the trade agreement, through the incentives it creates, will have a positive effect on colombia’s civil society, its governance structures and the human rights situation in general. sustainable improvement of the human rights situation in colombia requires us to address the root causes of the violence in the country. these include poverty, social exclusion and a lack of economic opportunity in some parts of the territory. the eu trade agreement coupled with our efforts in the development cooperation field will further this economic development, create jobs and reduce poverty. in particular our contribution will be significant in creating the means of income generation that provide viable alternatives to drug cultivation whose stranglehold has been a main driver for colombia’s internal conflict and for the human rights violations that it entails. if this overall approach were to fail, the human rights provisions that we negotiated in the trade agreement fully address the human rights challenges that colombia is facing. article 1 of the agreement states that respect for fundamental human rights as laid down in the universal declaration of human rights constitutes an essential element of the trade agreement. in the event of violation of this essential element, the eu will be in a position to immediately, unilaterally and without prior consultation suspend the agreements. it is clear to me that our fundamental objective to consolidate and support democracy, the rule of law and human rights will be fully safeguarded thanks to these strong provisions. in addition our agreement includes a number of binding commitments to effectively implement core labour and environmental conventions and makes provision for a mechanism for monitoring the implementation of labour standards which allows for the participation of civil society organisations. the agreement with colombia and peru is a trade pact for development which requires, unlike our gsp autonomous preferences scheme, full reciprocity of commitments and contains solid human rights guarantees. in the coming months you will soon have the opportunity to give your consent to this agreement. i urge you to take this overall balance into consideration and approve the conclusion of this agreement when the time comes.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, thank you for your answer. that sounds very positive. the problem is, however, that, as i would like to stress here again, there was a human rights clause in the old preferential system, and it did not help to prevent the human rights violations that have taken place under uribe and in the past. so my question was very specific: what exactly will be different? what does the eu, the commission, intend to do in the future to ensure that these human rights violations are not repeated? on the other hand, i have figures that even under the new government, in the last 300 days, there have been over 200 attacks on human rights activists and 15 murders of leaders who have been engaged in human rights and fair land distribution in the field of agriculture. when i look at what is still happening, the question that comes to mind is: how exactly do you want to prevent this? i still don't understand that.
i have to say, madam president, you have mentioned it, commissioner, the gigaliners or monster trucks, whatever you want to call them, are a hot topic. you talked about efficiency gains in gasoline consumption. my question is: what exactly are the efficiency gains? i know the proponents are talking about making two trucks into one truck. it is only by doing this that we would ultimately make the storage we have today cheaper or make driving on the road cheaper than storage, with the consequence that ultimately 'two times a truck' would have the exact opposite effect. i would ask you to consider this too, because then we would have more trucks on the roads than before. you also announced various works related to the monster trucks at the time. what's the status of that? what results have you obtained in this regard, and what is the next step? i would be interested in that because in germany there is no uniform position on this, rather a negative one.
mr president, commissioner, the council presidency, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today, more than 31 000 people still die on european roads every year. in this respect, i find it negligent that the transport ministers of the member states have blocked such an important instrument in the council for more than two years. as a representative of the people, you should be concerned about the safety of your citizens, and not about the fact that drivers from non-member countries can also flout the rules of the road. the fact that we can vote on this proposal tomorrow is due in large part to the tenacity of our rapporteur. i am as disappointed as you are that the council has changed the legal basis for this directive, thereby provoking an opt-out by three member states. this creates an eu-wide law for the prosecution of traffic offences which will not apply across the eu and i consider this to be suboptimal to say the least. the commission has already taken a number of important decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. i would like to make a specific point and thank the rapporteur for her strong support for a strong revision clause and hope that the transport ministers will not only be older but wiser by the time the revision is carried out, at the latest in five years' time.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we definitely need more women in the top management of companies throughout the european union. you all know the numbers. only one in ten board members in the european union is a woman, and 97% of board presidents are men. i think we can all agree that there is an urgent need for action. i would like to thank the commissioner very sincerely. it was you, madam commissioner, who in march this year took the bold step of demanding that something be done. they asked the companies to act voluntarily. if they do not, you will present a legislative proposal, a legal basis, in march 2012. thank you very much. the figures we have seen since then show that a great deal has been done. if you hadn't been so brave, mrs reding, we wouldn't have taken these small steps. i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mrs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, who has put forward an excellent draft. i can go along with many of the statements in this draft. i shall be voting in favour of the draft, although i have a more nuanced view of the quota than is now contained in the report for the vote. i also believe that if a voluntary commitment by the companies is not going to help, we need a legal quota as a means of pressure. i think, however, that we should introduce this quota first for the supervisory structures of large companies and not for the operational business. i shall therefore not support the proposal in relation to paragraph 16b, but i shall certainly vote in favour of the report because it contains the right statements. it's a question of women's self-image, how they stand up to the quota. i wouldn't have a problem with it if you could get the door open with a quote. whether i'm good or bad, i have to prove myself no matter how i get there. in this respect, a quota helps but does not replace performance. no woman has a problem getting the door open. you have to go through it and prove yourself. but the chance of passing through should also be given to women in the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not june 22 marked the 70th anniversary of the invasion of the soviet union by hitler's germany. poland was already a destroyed country at that time. europe, which emerged from that criminal war in which nazi germany destroyed poland; the europe in which stalinism enslaved the country for 40 years and more is a different europe from the one we have today. the speech which donald tusk has just given here shows that the polish presidency is characterised by a consciousness of the value of this europe. we are grateful to you for that, mr prime minister. (applause from the centre) europe suffers from the attitude of governments, across all parties, who, out of desperation and lack of ideas, take the position that in this global village, where an event in any corner of the world becomes the subject of local debate in seconds, problems can be solved by national action. schengen - the debate we are having - is a good example of this. this mismatch between reality and political rhetoric is what europe is suffering from. this is a great danger to our project. poland, on the other hand, takes a different approach. poland, through its prime minister, the president of the council, declared this morning: 'the best protection of our national interests is the european union, the european escort.' that's a different concept. europe suffers from governments who actively participate or silently sit decide everything and then go home and, at the first negative comment in a newspaper, blame the european institutions for what they themselves have decided. poland, on the other hand, stands for a different approach. we have heard this morning from a president of the council who has put before us the concept that his presidency wants the partnership between national governments and the european institutions, because cooperation between the national level and the european institutions, and not competition, is the recipe for europe's success. this is the head of government of a country that was also a member of the warsaw pact. this is the head of government of a country that was also oppressed by the soviet union. but it is the prime minister of a country who does not go there - as his predecessor did in the office of president of the council - and compare brussels with moscow, but says: 'europe is not part of the crisis, but an instrument for overcoming the problems we have.' (applause from the centre) in commenting on the last financial perspective, jean-claude juncker said: 'i am ashamed because this financial perspective is not a european community work but an appeal to national self-interest.' that was the last financial forecast. now we have governments that are in the process of elevating national self-interest to their political creed. the polish government has a different approach. we heard: spending discipline, yes. but we have also heard: a wise investment policy in europe to promote growth, yes, because without growth there are no jobs and without jobs there is no social security. solidarity in europe, solidarity between the strong and the weak within the countries and between the strong and the weak - that is the concept of the polish presidency, not the playing of national budgets against european budgets! we have heard - i think you can say that - a great speech. the polish national anthem contains the beautiful phrase that poland is not yet lost. i would like to say to you, mr prime minister, in reference to this sentence: jeszcze europa nie zginęła, póki my żyjemy! the idea of a united europe, of solidarity, which through transnational solutions creates prosperity for all and secures peace in europe and through europe in the world, has not yet been defeated, especially when we have such council presidencies! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. i would like to return to something that my colleagues have already said just after the last speech. it was already during our visit to warsaw that, unlike other council presidencies, the talks on the polish presidency were marked by a special joy and celebration. and what you have now succeeded in doing with your speech beyond that, i really think is something very unusual. i have not been in this european parliament for a long time, but i have very rarely seen a head of state succeed in defining the idea of europe as you have done now, ... (applause)... namely, to present not just the european union as a political instrument but the idea of the european union as an idea of an enlarged homeland - yes, a homeland of nation states and citizens in those nation states - and for that i would like to thank you! this is extremely helpful in this difficult period of conflict, especially after your predecessor in the council presidency has left us with verbal insults against the european parliament, and we have almost got used to the fact that a man who also represents hungary here has just equated vienna with moscow and brussels. if that is over now, mr tusk, and i believe that is what this speech stands for, then we will be in a much better position to tackle all the problems we have to solve. (applause from the centre) the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i would encourage you to do what we talked about in warsaw: separate the problems of the deficit countries and the solution of these problems in greece, portugal and other countries from the tasks which have arisen in the struggle over the global financial crisis! make sure it's a fair fight. solidarity with the deficit countries is one thing, fairness in implementing these austerity programmes, justice in these countries is really something that is still open. perhaps you will succeed in taking the next step and, in addition to austerity measures and solidarity measures, you will also be able to tackle the 'new deal' which some of my colleagues have now spoken of in the press. greece and other debtor countries need prospects in this crisis, and that will not be possible without investment programmes. but above all, do not forget the need for europeans to approach global financial markets differently than we have done so far. we have not yet drawn the full consequences of this global financial crisis, and there is still much to be done. on this new deal: as a green, i have to say, of course, that i want a green new deal when we are developing these investment programmes. the challenges we have often spoken of, from the ecological crisis, from the climate crisis, must be met in this economic crisis. turning back the wheel and forgetting the challenges of global warming, e.g. displacing fukushima, even as a marker of the past few months - it has already been displaced - does not make sense! and what poland could gain in this dispute over the green new deal is to drive sustainable economic development for poland too - especially in the energy sector. you have to invest a lot and take on european responsibilities now and you can only win. i hope that we can agree on the idea of climate protection and sustainability, with a view to boosting innovation not only for the deficit countries but for the whole european union. the federal minister for the environment, mr röttgen, whom i do not always quote, but i like to quote here, said: 6 million new jobs can be created through an ambitious sustainability policy. mr tusk, let us also conclude a pro-european pact. (the president cut the speaker off)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. a clear majority of the polish population is pro-eu, more pro-eu than in many other countries. the council presidency's work programme, which calls for openness and, in particular, greater and better understanding with our neighbours, ukraine, the republic of moldova, belarus and russia, is something i very much welcome. germany, as poland's western neighbour, has had good experience in the close cooperation of the regions on the border. we are facing the many political challenges together. we need more open and respectful cooperation between the eu institutions, especially between the council and parliament, when it comes to economic governance decisions. i can only repeat what i said: we have to start saving people, not just the banks. i would like to make one comment on the reform of the eu budget. i think that a quasi-freeze of the medium-term budget is unrealistic. populist slogans such as 'now we must save on the eu' are clearly short-sighted. in the crisis, the eu must and can demonstrate its added value by acting as a community of action and solidarity. that's what i heard you say. the work programme seems to be improving in terms of energy and climate policy. in the coming months, a new global climate change agreement, following on from kyoto, must be reached. the european union must not act as a brake. i wish the polish presidency every success!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr president, i would like to say that i am very pleased that the polish presidency has taken the initiative to make the necessary changes to the council's decision-making procedure. i think your speech today showed that you're going beyond crisis management. they want to give europe a direction. i think that is very good, and colleagues have stressed this across the political groups. it was a big speech. thank you very much. you have spoken of europe's debt crisis and called for european solidarity. we in the liberal group are saying emphatically yes to this solidarity. i would ask you to keep the other side of the coin in mind. and that is clearly solidity for us. it was unsound debt-making over many years that led us into this crisis. we therefore want - and this is really central - a stability pact with teeth. it is quite ironic that in 2003 the german chancellor and the french president softened this stability pact, and today it is the german chancellor and the french president who, while walking on the beach in deauville, decide that the stability pact should once again be without teeth for the future. mr tusk, do not let that discourage you. move! mr verhofstadt said so! the direction is clear! the second point on which i would ask you to move forward with courage is one of the priorities of your presidency: the advancement of the common security and defence policy. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. don't be discouraged, the americans are withdrawing. we have libya, we have syria, moldova and georgia in the east - we have so much to do together as europeans. strengthen the european external action service, promote democracy and human rights, further develop the security policy instruments and the european defence agency. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. you're busy. you have a lot to do. good luck with that.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank you, mr president-in-office, for your great commitment to europe. i believe that in the 21st century, and especially in the 21st century, it is useful to tackle problems which a single state can no longer solve on its own, and to find a good solution in the interests of the people. and that you have clearly committed yourself to this, for which i thank you very much! the tasks ahead of you in the second half of 2011 are considerable. the key words have already been mentioned: saving greece. i believe that it is right and important that we, the european union, are the actors from within, and not the rating agencies, to dictate the pace and direction of the journey. and we will also have to adjust our instruments internally when it comes to being able to act in order to bring about a corresponding stabilization. unfortunately, mr farage is no longer here: i would be glad if the european union would not be constantly attacking our common currency, even if you are not a member of the currency. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
i am very happy to answer the question: if we continue this debate here for the next few years, the americans will be in charge of environmental protection in the world, the chinese will be in charge of consumer protection, and the people of europe will be protected by no one. our job is to work for the people. (applause from the centre) i would just like to point out briefly that we also have some problems to solve together in the area of financial market regulation, both in the governance package and in relation to financial services. i look forward to working with you and hope that we as europeans can make an important contribution to stabilising financial markets here too. we have a special responsibility here and i am optimistic that under the polish presidency we will succeed in doing so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not my job, it is your job to preside over the sitting in this house. but a speech like the one the honourable member has just given, in which one people is presented as the people who have to pay for all the others and the worse, the romanians, the poles, the hungarians, that is a phraseology europe has heard before. i think that's open racism. i took the liberty of calling it that! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to make two things clear. first of all, i did not call this man a fascist. that's why i don't have to apologize for it. secondly, i want to state once and for all - and this applies to mr madlener, mr farage and a number of other colleagues who in their speeches constantly question our democratic legitimacy, but claim their own democratic legitimacy: they are elected members of parliament, and we have to accept that, just as we are elected members of parliament with our opinions, and you have to accept that. but i want to make one thing very clear to you, mr madlener: i must - and i do - take note of the fact that you are sitting here, that you have been elected, that you represent your constituents here. but you must know that i will do everything i can do and many others here will do to make sure that people like you have no place in europe!
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. seven years and two months ago poland joined the eu and we are delighted to take over the presidency of the council of the european union. poland is taking the helm at a time when europe is facing major challenges in financial, energy and internal affairs. we are all the more grateful to poland for continuing to pursue ambitious objectives in transport policy. we social democrats welcome your desire to promote the improvement of the social conditions of transport workers. and when it comes to the development of the transeuropean transport networks, you also intend to keep a close eye on the economic and territorial cohesion of the eu regions, as well as on their social cohesion. as an advocate of a sustainable transport policy, i am particularly pleased that your priorities are aligned with those of the transport white paper and that you are working with parliament to find a quick solution to the first railway package. in that sense, to good cooperation!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. when the crisis committee was set up in autumn 2009, some observers said it was too late. he should have started a year ago, the crisis was almost over. but today we are not in the first or second year after the crisis, we are in the fourth year of the crisis. still the same. fukushima has shown that everything that can go wrong will go wrong. it was similar with the global financial crisis. the european union has been a major player in the world economy for many years, and it is not surprising that the european union has been a major player in the world economy for many years. thank god that didn't happen. but we have in europe now what is called the debt crisis or the euro crisis. and for a year and a half, she's been holding us tight. i have the impression that european decision-makers have not been actively leading for a year and a half. they react to market upheavals, to market turbulence, but they do not act with foresight, on the basis of a clear idea of where they want to take this europe. that's what's missing. this vision is lacking, and our citizens have the impression that those responsible are basically back to business as usual: profits are privatized, losses are socialized and the real problems are not addressed. this is where our report comes in. it proposes the broad lines of future development of the european union and the euro area. pervenche berès has described it in detail, and othmar karas has also commented on it. i can spare you the digging. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we do not take the right path now, we will not even be able to defend the status quo of integration that has been achieved, but will find ourselves in a state of regression. it is important that all of us who believe in europe and want to shape its future actually show ourselves to the outside world as representatives of these ideas, that we speak to the citizens, to the members of the national parliaments, and that we try to win them over to our cause. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after two years, we have finally received the cris report and i would like to thank rapporteur berès and the chairman of the committee, mr klinz, for their work. but i also have to say: we have been able to achieve a good text, not least thanks to the efforts of our epp group coordinator, othmar karas, of frank engel and also our shadow rapporteur sirpa pietikäinen. the crisis committee was originally intended to analyse the causes and to make long-term recommendations. we have now formulated five specific recommendations on five main topics. the report also analyses the necessary steps to be taken in the areas of competitiveness, energy policy, the eu internal market, migration and research, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, and taxation, employment and training. i think it is therefore crucial now to see what we do with these good recommendations. it is not enough to formulate the necessary steps - no, we must do something now. the eu institutions must play a greater role in the design and implementation of common actions. the eu is at a crossroads in my view. either we decide to take the next step towards integration, or the eu is drifting apart because of the existing divergences in economic policy. the cris committee has now had to close its doors, but the crisis is not over. the debt crisis is a massive challenge for us right now. we must now face that challenge. we shall certainly continue to do so in the next few months in the economic and monetary affairs committee of this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and mr klinz, and in particular our coordinator, mr othmar karas, who has made sure that this is not only a balanced report but also that it contains many points which are really worth reading and which are necessary and correct for the future of the european union of 27 member states. in a global competition, it is no longer possible for each member state to rely solely on competition. i believe that competition is important and a necessary instrument. but i also think it is important that we have 27 common strategies in the global financial markets and against our big competitors from other continents. i am not in favour of more europe, but i am in favour of more europe where, in the end, only the 27 can succeed together. in this context, we have raised key points in the area of financial markets and pointed out that we are not achieving more economic growth by merely trading money, but only by coordinated and sustainable economic activity. in this sense, i think this report is very good.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today's document ends the second term of office of our special committee. while in the first report we developed current solutions - bank levies, hedge fund certification, financial transaction tax - we are now looking at visions beyond 2013: rules for effective crisis management, deeper integration between states, sustainability in employment and growth policies. budgetary discipline must become the new popular sport, from the regional to the european level. the erosion of the stability and growth pact over many years must be replaced by a robust surveillance system from which no euro area country can escape. decisions are required. is a european finance ministry necessary, as recommended by ecb president trichet? do the eurobonds come with strict compliance? will the esm become the european debt agency? how can the dominance of the often completely wrong rating agencies be broken? what is the prospect of a more stable participation of the banks in the crisis? we do not need fear-based renationalization, we need more europe!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would ask you to vote in favour of this so that we can have a broad basis for future negotiations with the other institutions. thank you for that. i would also like to thank you for the good cooperation with the other groups and the other rapporteurs. thank you for your patience. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me get something straight . the second point is that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is not the compromise package, but the result of the second reading vote in the relevant envi committee. a second document is being distributed: amendments nos 137 and 136 are being revised. this amendment no 136 is the compromise package that all the political groups have negotiated with the council of ministers. that will be voted on first. if this package is accepted, of course, everything else falls by the wayside. i urge you to support this compromise. everyone in this house must be aware that if this compromise is not supported by a large majority in this house, we risk a conciliation procedure in which the new food labelling - on which we have now worked for three years - would fail. don't let it get to that! do something for the consumer! (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to make a declaration on behalf of the commission. the commission recalls its commitment towards ensuring that member states establish correlation tables linking the transposition measures they adopt with the eu directive and communicate them to the commission in the framework of transposing eu legislation, in the interest of citizens, better law-making and increasing legal transparency and to assist the examination of the conformity of national rules with eu provisions. the commission regrets the lack of support for the provision included in the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on a directive facilitating cross-border enforcement in the field of road safety, which aimed to render the establishment of correlation tables obligatory. the commission, in a spirit of compromise and in order to ensure the immediate adoption of that proposal, can accept the substitution of the obligatory provision on correlation tables included in the text with a relevant recital encouraging member states to follow this practice. however, the position taken by the commission in this case shall not be considered as a precedent. the commission will continue its efforts with a view to finding, together with the european parliament and the council, an appropriate solution to this horizontal institutional issue.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's important, and i'll make it very brief: article 3 of the existing budgetary agreement requires that, in the event of changes to the treaties with budgetary implications, the budgetary framework and the political agreements be adapted accordingly. we have tried to achieve these necessary adjustments in long talks with the belgian and hungarian presidencies. unfortunately, despite their efforts, these presidencies had not been given a sufficient mandate by the council. the council's present offer is below what parliament has today in the existing interinstitutional agreement. and the treaty of lisbon was not intended to limit the prerogatives and decision-making powers of the european parliament. there have been no serious negotiations. the possibilities for budgetary flexibility are de facto reduced by this offer compared to the actual situation. the committee on budgets therefore proposes that you reject the procedure for approval, that you refuse to give your consent and that you proceed directly to the negotiations on the next financial framework. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i too have agreed to the compromise proposal put forward by the rapporteur, mrs sommer, because we have thus laid a fundamental foundation for improving consumer protection. i think every consumer has a right to know what is in the food they are buying. and we have a common european market. so we also need to standardize the information so that the consumer can find his way around easily. we have made a number of successes and compromises. i firmly believe that this is a first step in the right direction. i also firmly believe that this will allow us to continue to monitor the situation and that in due course we will be able to make further progress in the interests of the consumer. the second point i would like to make is that we must always stress that consumer information is one thing, but the consumer's way of life is another. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i have to say, madam president, i too have voted in favour of this important report. we all want freedom of movement, but freedom of movement does not mean freedom for fools. it is simply a matter of respecting the road traffic laws and regulations of other member states. i am on the side of those who believe that there must be more harmonization here too. but if you break the law, if you break the rules, then of course you must be able to be punished. impunity must not lead to the member states calling themselves road-rail gangs. so this is a very important step in the right direction. i hope that this decision of the european parliament will not only be respected by the european council and the member states, but that it will also be implemented in practice and that we will not have to wait another two years for the next decision.
in writing. - thank you to the rapporteur, renate sommer, for her excellent work over the last almost four years. the vote by the european parliament today is a landmark vote. it will give consumers greater clarity and truth. my motto is the mature consumer who knows what he is buying. but he can only do that if he also knows what's in a product. today's decision will give us a uniform mandatory nutrition labelling system, based on 100 grams or millilitres, which will ensure comparability in the supermarket. everything we've found on food so far has been voluntary, partly misleading and not comparable. the mandatory nutrition declaration provides consumers with information and enables them to make a well-informed purchasing decision. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. cheese imitation on pizza, bacon, ice cream without milk or chocolate biscuits without chocolate. often only cheaper substitutes or flavourings are used. in future, all these imitations must be marked accordingly! the food labelling regulation is a great success for our consumers. i've worked hard for that.
in writing. - i would like to thank mrs sommer for her great commitment, especially to the small and medium-sized food businesses, of which there are 2 300 in saxony alone. after three years of negotiations, it has managed to keep the eu's food labelling obligations manageable from the point of view of smes. it is true that in future the customer will also have to be informed of the allergens that may be present in loose, i.e. unprepacked, goods. but it is up to the member states to decide how to do this. this means that each country can find the solution that is best for its businesses and consumers, such as the billboard or the sales call. german bakers and butchers already have quite high standards here. the eu now imposes no obligations on any other nutrition declaration for bulk products. for handmade food, a derogation is explicitly provided for where the supply is made directly in small quantities by the manufacturer to the final consumer or to local retailers who in turn supply the products directly to the final consumer. my group, the european people's party, has thus succeeded in bringing consumer interests and the interests of producers into a good balance. i am glad that small and mediumsized enterprises are thus spared from unworkable eu demands.
in writing. − for body scanners, it is particularly important to me that the available equipment meets technical requirements in order not to slow down the operational processes and thus lead to undesirable results. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the safety of passengers is not guaranteed by the complexity of the procedures and that, in the final analysis, there is no safety benefit to be gained from these procedures. unfortunately, experience suggests that this is not the case. it is important to make the timing of the introduction dependent on a working technique and not on a predetermined date. the new equipment must also be compatible with liquid detection techniques. i would also urge that aspects of the spatial and static capabilities for the control unit (i.e. body scanners and x-ray apparatus) be considered. many airports require major renovations to support the weight of the equipment and to provide sufficient space. the passenger flow rate must be comparable to the current passenger flow rate at the passenger checkpoints, otherwise significant operational and quality problems would arise. realistic planning is essential for airports. it must be borne in mind that the conditions - space for the equipment, statics and training measures - must be prepared accordingly and that the conversion measures require considerable planning time and money.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to express my great appreciation and thanks to our rapporteur, rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, who, after months of tough negotiations, has succeeded in producing a report on the subject of 'women in business leadership' that is largely very balanced and worthy of support. i should like to explain briefly why i voted against paragraphs 1 and 16b: the figures on the proportion of women in managerial positions are shameful, and i am therefore deeply convinced that we must finally take targeted measures to massively increase this proportion. i think that the requirements of paragraphs 1 and 16b are too broad. i do not think we should interfere with the operational management of companies and demand quotas for the boards themselves. first, therefore, companies are invited to take voluntary measures. i therefore believe that the year 2012 in particular is far too early for legislative measures and quotas to be introduced. however, in order to send a clear political signal that something must be done urgently, and at the same time to support commissioner kroes in her efforts to do so, i voted in favour of the entire resolution at the end.
in writing. - in general, i believe that it is socially and economically right to increase the proportion of women in management positions. i have voted against the report because paragraph 16b calls for the introduction of a european-wide quota for women. this demand goes too far: a mandatory quota is a massive interference with the freedom of enterprise and is therefore constitutionally questionable. in addition, a flat-rate quota does not take account of the specific characteristics of the undertaking and the sector: a uniform quota would not be feasible in germany at present, for example in the construction, engineering or it sectors. it is essential to start with training and education in order to significantly increase the proportion of young women in these traditionally male-dominated sectors. in addition, the framework conditions for working parents, in particular family-oriented and flexible working models and childcare infrastructure, need to be improved. in this context, i prefer a voluntary commitment by the companies and a cooperative approach between politics and business to a rigid, binding quota.
mr president, is it possible to find out whether members of this house were responsible for the incident upstairs there?
mr president, i would like to welcome baroness ashton and mr füle, it is a pleasure to have you both here with us. baroness ashton, i thank you for your commitment to the region and its democratic transformation. the people expect our genuine support especially after years of european hypocrisy and collaboration with the regimes. i have three points i would like to make. firstly, about the structures you have set up. you have, with the member states, appointed a special representative for the region. i think it is good but it comes a bit late. as mr swoboda said, in appointing mr leon you have certainly picked a very experienced and knowledgeable man. however, he is not a public political figure and not somebody who has the weight to actually go there and lead the negotiations and have the continuous support we would like to see. you have set up a task force for the region which is chaired at director level. my question is: how will you articulate the task force and its director, the special representative and the external action service team you have together with mr füle and mr mingarelli sitting behind you? how will they articulate together? will there be extra staff for example for the special representative? my second question is on egypt. i think it is important to continue criticising ongoing human rights violations in egypt; it is not as if everything is going perfectly well there. i have two questions there for you on the housing project you have financed and i ask you: if you implement this, will you ensure that the local community is involved in the planning? and secondly, will you finance civil society monitoring of the project afterwards? the eib cannot finance this. it needs to be financed by the other instruments that we have. und drittens – herr swoboda hat es erwähnt: die von deutschland nach saudi-arabien gelieferten panzer. wir haben einen new code of conduct, und wie ich ihn verstehe, ist dieser nicht mit den aktuellen exporten, die deutschland vorhat, in einklang zu bringen. haben sie dies kontrolliert? haben sie überprüft, ob das möglich ist? was ist ihre stellung dazu? vielleicht könnten sie dazu etwas sagen. ich glaube, es ist nicht förderlich für die region, jetzt diese signale und diese unterstützung an saudi-arabien zu geben.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs. ashton, you mentioned that you're holding quartet talks on 9/11, and i'm very pleased about that. i am equally pleased - though perhaps a little surprised, because you set the bar very high here - that you have made it so clear that you expect a statement to be issued at this meeting that will bring the palestinians and israelis back to the negotiating table. that is a very high goal you have set yourself here in public! i really hope you make it. why do i hope so? i am very concerned about the situation in the middle east, and i am also concerned about the situation in the region. the announcement by president sarkozy that he will behave in this way, the announcement by the federal government that it will behave differently if the palestinians bring their concerns to the general assembly, gives me cause for concern again about the unity of our member states on a key foreign policy issue, for which you will then receive criticism. so i wish you all the best in these quartet negotiations. secondly, you said that democracy was important, that people wanted democracy in the region. i'm sure that's right. but i think we should not lose sight of this and really focus our attention on this: what people really want is dignity! a life with dignity! rule of law, no arbitrary seizure of property! habeas corpus, no constant threat from the secret police! jobs, out of the lack of prospects, so that we can really start something with a free trade offer! then, of course, democracy, real participation in the political making. but this is part of the big picture. and finally, of course, peace, an end to this terrible violence! i would like to stress once again that we should implement the measures proposed here by mr verhofstadt in relation to syria, and it would be really good if we worked closely with turkey and made progress.
mr president, mrs ashton, mr fool, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. it is not the first time that we have spoken today about the arab countries and the upheavals there. when we talk about developments from syria to morocco, i think parliament is also working on its own past: the european union's at least tolerated cooperation with countries which we now rightly call autocratic and whose internal constitution we are concerned about. that's good. but i cannot help feeling that we have already begun to settle down again, in the supposed certainty that everything is settled, everything is clear. what i personally cannot and do not want to avoid is that, although we are still commenting on political processes, we are still not prepared to put these developments in their national and regional social context and to investigate the causes of developments. we must stop using double standards in our foreign policy and in our democratic relations with one another. we should talk about the interrelationship between the eu's neighbourhood policy and the eu's policy of non-resolution of the palestinian conflict. i especially welcome your commitment to the quartet. we should also mention that the war against the autocratic regime of gaddafi, which has been launched by some eu countries and nato, is already having dramatic economic consequences in tunisia: capital flight, returning workers, migrants, declining tourism revenues and trade relations are just some of the key words. in egypt too, this war is playing into the hands of the forces of restoration in the military and the elites. so we are not dealing with new and old loads only. mrs ashton, mr füle, we need - and i think this has been made clear in the debate so far - a fundamental political and economic reorientation of the european union's external action!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. freedom and a better standard of living or together dignity are the crucial points of the arab revolution, and these two words were also characteristic of the movements in central and eastern europe around 1989. the conditions are very different, and that is why it is difficult to achieve an orderly development, a democracy. i believe that we must focus our partnership and neighbourhood policy, the instruments and means we have, more on these two objectives and also strengthen the multilateral approach on this issue, rather than just adding substance to the old bilateral relations. we must support this process and, for example, in egypt and tunisia - as my colleague david said - we must make it timely so that people have the opportunity to develop democracy and build parties. this is an important clue. but we also need to see that minorities are still hiding behind the inhuman regime in syria because they have found protection there. and if we remember what happened to the christians in iraq after saddam hussein was overthrown, there is reason to be concerned that this could now be repeated in syria. so we must also take into account the situation of christian minorities, for example, if we want to bring about reforms and eliminate systems that are so inhuman. let me make one final comment: i believe you'll need a lot of support for your quartet ambitions next week. i do not think it is necessary to take a position on whether or not one is in favour of unilateral recognition of palestine. our policy must be to avoid this question and to have negotiations between palestinians and israelis as soon as possible so that a certain sensible, lasting policy can be developed here. if you could do that, it would be a great achievement! i believe that this is in the interest of the palestinians, the israelis and the members of the quartet, because the intention is that the eu should play a stronger political role in this area. the whole development of the arab revolution is to be seen in this context, just as on the other hand the negative example of iran and the security need associated with it in israel should not be overlooked. and even if this contradicts everything i've said so far, those countries in the region that are counterparts to iran and have given up a lot to prevent iran from actually getting a nuclear bomb, we have to support those regimes whether we like them or not, so that iran does not become the dominant power in the region. we must also provide the neighbouring countries with the appropriate security facilities. this is perhaps also a reply to mrs brantner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if a year ago someone had predicted that people in the muslim world, in the arab world, would stand up for their dignity, that the wind of freedom, of democracy would blow through the arab world, then many of us would have said that this is an illusion, we don't believe that. but it happened, and we should be happy about it, and it disproves, above all, the clash of civilizations theory that so many people believed in. a peaceful muslim who seeks freedom, dignity and democracy is our ally, and we have a political and moral obligation to support these people with advice and action, to meet them with solidarity. and we need to criticize and isolate all those who oppress these people, whether in libya or syria. the european union is not a party to the peace process. we cannot let things stay as they are, let them stay as they are in the middle east. we hear this thesis from time to time: nothing must change, because then it could be dangerous. no, freedom is never threatening! we want israel to live in secure borders, and we want palestine to live in secure borders. both have their dignity, the israelis and the palestinians. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the palestinians are not left behind, and that the palestinians are not left behind. this secures peace between israel and palestine, but it also secures our relationship with the arab and islamic world.
mr vajgl, i think you are absolutely right. the problem, or the relationship, between israel and palestine has a significance that goes far beyond the region there, because it also touches on the question of how we live together as a civilization in the world. if there is no peace between israel and palestine, and if the right of palestine to live in dignity within secure borders is not recognized, then this will always put a strain on our relations with the arab and muslim world as well. so everyone must know that the relationship between israel and palestine is of a significance that goes far beyond the relationship between these two groups. i would very much welcome it if we could have a very comprehensive debate here in the european parliament on these questions alone - political questions, religious questions, cultural questions, geographical questions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am afraid that is not enough, very honourable member and commissioner füle. the european union has already done a great deal in the region, but the pressure on syria must be increased. the support of all democratic forces and their security must be guaranteed with even greater urgency. but the people there must also have an economic future. this means that a development plan must be drawn up for each country and for the whole region. we must open our markets and also support the refugees. it's going to cost a lot of money. but it is far cheaper and more meaningful than further violence and military conflict. the supply of leopard ii tanks from germany to saudi arabia is all the more incomprehensible. yes, mr westerwelle and mrs merkel, have you not noticed the revolutionary changes in the region? do you not know that these powerful tanks can also be used against democratic movements within the country and to suppress rebellions? germany holds the presidency of the un security council this month. yes, what does germany want to achieve or start with the presidency if it delivers tanks to the crisis region? active peace policy is different! libya sends its greetings, mr westerwelle. iran must be stopped by all of us together. and i'm not going to stop nuclear weapons with leopard tanks. that too must be clarified. madam high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, please use all your influence and power to prevent this deal from happening. there is a beautiful latin phrase: pecunia non olet money does not stink. but these billions of euros, they do!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs véronique de keyser, for her excellent work. this report has a normative part and an operational part. in the normative part we are trying to establish a european consensus on what we consider to be democracy, what is essential to it. the council has not been able to reach such an agreement for years because the member states have very different traditions. nevertheless, i think we can all agree that what is stated in our recitals c to o are very clear elements of democracy which we must take into account in promoting democracy. the operational part is about the instruments. what do we have on instruments? you have been mentioned. we often find that it's too slow, too bureaucratic, too complicated, that it can be improved. the instrument for stability could also be made faster. the report says that we always respond quickly and appropriately to situations, but it took weeks for the ifs to send election workers to tunisia for technical assistance. there's a lot to do here! that is why the debate on the european endowment for democracy is now being raised, because we want a faster, more flexible instrument. and i think, and this is important, this applies to all the groups: there are some who are a little more enthusiastic, there are others who are a little more reserved. we need clarity from the edf, from the commission, from the polish presidency of the council, which regards this as an important project. what are the limits between the instruments we have and what a european endowment for democracy should do? who does what with what instruments and in what situation? mr howitt has just touched on the subject of election observation. i think this is really important. please look at numbers 60 to 63: that is the view of this house on election observation. we want strict criteria for the selection of countries, we believe that this is not always strict enough. we want comprehensive political concepts. we want a follow-up on the recommendations. i think these are some of the points that really need to be stressed. what are the next steps? this report contains many work orders for the edf as well as for parliament. how can we make sanctions more effective? how do we make the instruments more effective? what are we doing for women and democracy gender equality? what do we do in the ead delegations around the world? there are many work orders we can deduce from this report. let's get to work.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, madam high representative ashton, i would like to thank you for your work. the report contains a wealth of useful measures to promote democratization processes and deserves our full support. i would now like to discuss the establishment of a foundation for the promotion of democracy, the european endowment for democracy, which is also intended to support societies in transition. however, we have not yet been able to determine the exact role of this new institution, this foundation. we had a full debate on this in the human rights committee, but again it was not clear what the added value is in contrast to the application of the instrument for democracy and human rights. yes, there is certainly room for improvement in this instrument for human rights and democracy, for example in terms of flexibility or the ability to react more quickly. but i do not think it would be in the interests of anyone if we agreed to set up such an endowment for democracy now, in this still unclear situation. we must avoid duplication of effort. it is also discussed that we want to set up a mechanism to promote civil society. the commission has not yet been informed, or perhaps has not yet been informed, of the nature of this monitoring mechanism. so there is a lack of clarity here too. until these questions are answered, we cannot at this stage agree to such an endowment for democracy. of course, we are also concerned about the financing. the second question, of course, is whether this will be at the expense of existing instruments, since the concept assumes that individual member states will finance this endowment for democracy, and this may not be possible. we would reject it in this case as well.
vice-president of the council/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i am very grateful to have the opportunity to exchange views with honourable members on the nagorny karabakh conflict. when i, along with president barroso and president van rompuy, met with president medvedev at the eu-russia summit, president medvedev was optimistic about the possibilities for a breakthrough at the kazan meeting. we made clear to president medvedev that we fully support his personal mediation efforts and of course the work of the minsk group. the deauville statement of presidents obama, medvedev and sarkozy made clear that the time had now come for an agreement, failing which the parties’ commitment to a solution would be questioned. regrettably, despite strong messages at the highest level, the expected breakthrough at kazan did not materialise. the presidents of azerbaijan and armenia did not take the opportunity to reach a compromise. relations between the two countries are difficult. i recently met with the foreign ministers of both armenia and azerbaijan and i do not have any illusion about the complexity of the negotiations. the co-chairs keep the eeas fully informed of their work and the many difficulties that they face. last friday i also took the opportunity to be briefed by the lithuanian foreign minister, who is now chairman-in-office of the osce. efforts to find an agreement on the basic principles must continue, and i welcome the fact that both parties have re-committed themselves to the diplomatic process and to finding a peaceful solution. but we need to see more than that in the coming months. the parties need to redouble their efforts to find an agreement before the end of the year. this would then happen before the domestic priorities take over in 2012: elections in armenia in 2012, and in azerbaijan in 2013. a continuation of the status quo is unacceptable, as is any effort to resolve the conflict or influence the negotiations by using force, or even the threat of force. the peaceful settlement of the nagorny karabakh conflict is a key strategic interest of the european union. it would also transform the south caucasus region and would pave the way towards political and regional stability, and new economic opportunities. borders could open not only between armenia and azerbaijan, but also between armenia and turkey. roads, railways and pipelines could take the shortest routes, and tie the countries of the region more closely together. the south caucasus could become what they should be already – a gateway between europe and asia. all of this is clearly in the interest of the european union, too. so we are ready and committed to stepping up our efforts in support of the work of the minsk group co-chairs. the negotiations have been going on since 1994 in the current format and an agreement on the basic principles is within reach. the nature of the additional support that we can provide is of course a matter that we need to consult with the minsk group co-chairs and the parties. we are holding regular consultations now on this subject. let me be very clear, however. whatever happens in these final negotiations will matter greatly to us and we will play a role in the way we shape our policy towards the two countries concerned. on my behalf, miroslav lajcak, our managing director, travelled to both countries last month, and made these points very clearly. we want to see progress by the time of the planned eastern partnership summit in september in warsaw. i also see clear possibilities to enhance the eu engagement outside the negotiations themselves. we are already supporting confidence building and outreach activities to people on both sides through civil society organisations who promote people-to-people contacts, including in the framework of the council of europe. but we can do more. i also believe we need to take significant responsibilities in the implementation of a settlement, once we reach this stage, in close cooperation with our international partners. there will be much to do: reconstruction, mine clearance, refugees, internally displaced people returns, and the promotion of economic recovery and security support. i also recognise the other partners who will play a significant role in this region and once again it will be important to work closely with our regional partner, turkey. i have proposed the appointment of a new representative for the south caucasus to take these different work strands forward, in cooperation with the minsk group co-chairs. perhaps our most important contribution will be to continue to strengthen our bilateral relations with both armenia and azerbaijan. the new european neighbourhood policy communication, which we discussed earlier today in this chamber, sets out an ambitious agenda for the countries of the south caucasus: for new association agreements, deep and comprehensive free trade areas, increased and facilitated mobility, increased sectoral cooperation and participation in eu programmes and increased support for civil society and the open society. our overall objective is to help our neighbouring countries build this comprehensive agenda. in that context we will be looking at ways in which we can enhance our bilateral cooperation in order that it can be geared to support conflict settlement. stefan füle recently visited armenia to discuss how to take our relationship forward and to build this agenda. i believe that a more confident, attractive and modern country, in both cases with ambitious reform agendas, will be in a stronger position to overcome the difficult legacies of the past. ultimately this is a choice that the leaders of armenia and azerbaijan need to make in the best interests of the people they represent. we know the choice we want them to make: the choice of compromise and peace. we believe that we have a role to play in supporting the co-chairs of the minsk group to realise that ambition.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is a matter of particular concern to us in the epp group, because we are concerned that arms deliveries will create a new arms race involving two large neighbouring countries and that this will inevitably lead to a military conflict. it is our duty to break this cycle so that we do not have another summer in this region like the one we had three years ago, when suddenly there are military conflicts. these very real dangers should not be underestimated. so it must be clear that we are on the side of the refugees who want to return to their homes and that the snipers must go. but we also believe that the six principles which the minsk group has drawn up and which have been accepted by both sides must now also be implemented and that no other reasons must be found for not implementing these six principles. this is of great importance! i believe that the european union has a very active role to play here. and if you are referring to the summit in kazan, i do not know whether the third person who sat at the table was really the neutral moderator he should have been. the european union should pursue a concrete policy towards these eastern partnership countries and - as i said in a previous debate - finally provide incentives for these countries to adopt a multilateral approach. we must link their interests together. we must make it clear that they will receive support from the european union if they cooperate with each other. we should not only have bilateral relations with these two countries, because we cannot stop the race. the idea of european unification has always been to link interests together in order to overcome the stress of the past and make it unnecessary because there are larger common interests. what i have said on neighbourhood policy is addressed in the first place to the vice-president of the commission. we have a great interest in ensuring that this region is not destabilised, because that would change the balance of power, which would not be in our interests for reasons of foreign policy, security or energy policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that we are holding this debate on nagorno-karabakh before the summer break, and i think it would have been even better if we had adopted a resolution as a parliament and sent a clear message to all concerned. i am concerned that in this region of tension, we are facing yet another summer in which the fear is that one of the parties will lose his nerve and then a third party will benefit geostrategically. this parliament cannot afford to take sides in this dispute. but we must commit all parties to uphold the agreed six basic principles in a diplomatic process. the fact that the status quo is not sustainable is precisely why there is a danger that one of the sides will leave this path. the arms build-up in azerbaijan and armenia is counterproductive, with russia apparently the main supplier to both sides. this fuels the suspicion that it has a hidden agenda, where in the event of a war conflict it then acts as a peacemaker, but in reality restores its old sphere of influence. i am convinced that we as the eu can offer the region as a whole much more than others: experience in building trust, in crossborder cooperation, in protecting minorities, in building democratic structures and in economic modernisation and integration into a common economic area. the eu can offer a win-win solution to the problem. i am glad that you, madam high commissioner, have recently spoken to the two foreign ministers. the fact that the kazan summit has failed in this form, that russia may not be an honest broker, is precisely why we should not leave this vacuum unfilled and ensure that a prospect of agreement can be reached for both sides.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i can be brief because we are dealing with russia on a fortnightly basis and what i said four weeks ago is still my opinion today. we regret that in russia parties, most recently the liberal party, are not allowed to stand for election and are therefore not able to stand for the vote of the citizens. i am convinced that no people in the world will tolerate this for long. and i am convinced that our partnership for modernisation could be much more concrete and also better implemented if the russian government could dispel concerns about democratic deficits and the rule of law through bold decisions. until that happens, we will not remain silent on this issue, also because we believe that it is in the interest of our partner russia itself. but i would like to add to our own address: i am also convinced that we can achieve much more by intensifying our discussions and cooperation than by adopting resolutions at the rate of a month, however accurate their contents may be. human rights and democracy are inseparable. our public contribution to this is important, our criticism of russia is justified, but we would be even more credible if we were to identify the deficits within the eu with the same honesty and sharpness, perhaps more unanimously than we have done so far. as long as it is claimed in this house - as happened yesterday - that today's hungary is a model democracy, my epp colleague's statement will remain valid: 'the self-righteousness of some members of this parliament is hair-raising'. i agree with that. i am not saying this to please anyone in moscow, but because i firmly believe that we can make a much more effective contribution than we are doing. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
mr. migalski, you are absolutely right! you can't compare the two. and yet i think it is more credible to be completely detached from criticism - also of moscow - and to approach the problems here in your own way. the second is that of course you can criticize moscow. the question is, how can we most effectively help make a difference? i am convinced that this cannot be achieved by making permanent decisions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we shall adopt a resolution on russia again tomorrow. this is the fourth russia resolution this year and a clear indication of the problems and communication difficulties between the eu and russia. our last resolution expressed our concerns and expectations about the forthcoming elections to the duma and the presidency. i can only hope, lady ashton, that you and presidents barroso and van rompuy have made this quite clear to president medvedev in nizhny novgorod. but what has been the effect? what happened in the meantime? the refusal to register the liberal parnas party shows that the russian government is clearly determined to hold new elections in accordance with the guidelines of guided democracy and guided justice. and president medvedev - you have emphasized this - himself called for party competition, because he recognized that a governing party without competition becomes rigid and leads the country into stagnation. so it's in russia's own interest, if we don't let the russian government get away with violating international obligations, because russia is a member of the un, is a member of the osce, is a member of the council of europe, and that should actually guarantee that you're following the universally accepted election standards. it was only in april - and you mentioned this - that the european court of human rights ruled that the dissolution of the republican party was disproportionate and unlawful, and russia is called upon to draw the consequences of this ruling by 12 july. i think the only consequence can be that these electoral obstacles are finally removed and the way is cleared for free, genuine, honest and correct elections. russia is constantly calling for freedom of movement to the eu, but freedom of movement without freedom of choice in one's own country is paralysed, limited freedom and leads to emigration rather than modernization.
(question to mr migalski: blue card procedure in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) mr. migalski, don't you think what you've said here is completely unfair? we have not rejected your magnitsky statement in any way. we just said it was completely outdated. you wrote this down four weeks ago. today the fedotov report came out, which reveals the details and circumstances of magnitsky's death very clearly. we should have recorded that. this declaration needs to be revised. we don't have any disagreement on that. i refuse to do that, for hypocrisy! it's disgraceful what you say in this matter! it's defamatory when you say something like that! you'd better take the time to update your statement!
the commission has already done so. two weeks ago there was a meeting of the european council. and after that meeting, the heads of state and government went to the media and told the european citizens how proud they are of schengen and that they will defend schengen against attacks. when i heard these statements from our leading politicians in the european union, i thought to myself: how far have we come to believe that defending schengen is a success? a matter of course which we have worked out in europe is suddenly available again. the central question is: how do we deal with the populism we feel from the right? i think we have to go one of two ways. one approach is we have to convince people again that the project is right. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the schengen information system is fully operational. i live in the bavarian-czech border area. security has improved there since we abolished border controls, because we are working with the czech authorities. even without the abolition of border controls, we are now having more success in fighting crime in romania and bulgaria, thanks to the exchange of data within the schengen information system. we need to convince people and get them back on board. we must win their hearts. i would like the commission to take a more firm stance on this. commissioner malmström publicly stated yesterday that there is no problem in denmark so far. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are not fighting for the hearts of men in this matter! we can assure the citizens that we as a parliament take the lisbon treaty seriously. we will defend all attacks on the schengen treaty with the power we have as parliamentarians. if the schengen acquis is to be amended, we will make sure that schengen is stronger and not weaker.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. what kind of anachronism is it that in the 22nd year after the historic fall of the wall, an eu member state like denmark is reintroducing border controls? this is a fatal message for the whole of the european union. we all know that under the schengen treaty it is quite possible to introduce temporary border controls in exceptional cases, see the world cup. the schengen system does not need an additional mechanism. and if the danish government reintroduces permanent border controls with germany and sweden, then it is breaking the treaty! i expect the commission to do nothing but regard this as a breach of contract! this spell must be stopped! freedom and freedom of movement are not negotiable, but constitute fundamental values of the eu. we must not sacrifice them to national vanities and the extreme right. we do not need to amend the schengen treaty, but to humanize asylum and migration law. we do not need additional customs officers on the german-danish border, but protection measures for refugees and people persecuted by the civil war.
vice-president of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, we attach great importance to having an effective democratic oversight of the eu foreign, security and defence policy, and fully recognise that this is a shared responsibility of the european parliament and the national parliaments. this responsibility implies a certain duty of cooperation by the parliaments and parliamentarians in achieving the objectives of the cfsp/csdp – including protecting the interests and security of european citizens – in the most effective way. parliamentarians are also uniquely placed to communicate the merits of the cfsp/csdp to citizens and civil society, and thus participate in the project of building, promoting and giving visibility to the eu foreign, security and defence policy. this important responsibility of parliaments is explicitly recognised in the report on the implementation of the european security strategy, which was endorsed by heads of state and government in 2008. it says that ‘maintaining public support for our global engagement is fundamental. ... we deploy police, judicial experts and soldiers in unstable zones around the world. there is an onus on governments, parliaments and eu institutions to communicate how this contributes to security at home.’ we are aware of the current discussions between national parliaments and the european parliament about the setting up of a new interparliamentary conference for cfsp/csdp, in accordance with protocol 1 of the lisbon treaty. everyone recognises that the closing down of the weu parliamentary assembly on 10 may 2011 has made the setting up of such a body even more urgent. we are confident that a mutually convenient agreement will soon be found, hopefully under the chairmanship of the polish parliament during the second half of this year. i thank you once again for this debate. it is an opportunity for us to reaffirm our attachment to the parliamentary oversight of the eu foreign, security and defence policy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr president, i congratulate you on your election, which i very much welcome. mr president, i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. this cooperation, which is described in article 9 of the protocol, is designed to enable us to carry out our respective tasks vis-à-vis the respective administrations, but each of us has his own responsibilities. in certain areas the european parliament has competence as we have agreed under the treaty, as agreed in the agreements with the commission and the council in connection with the external service with the accountability rule, with the responsibilities for the budget and budgetary control law. on the other hand, there are questions relating to military aspects, to the use of armies, which are the responsibility of the national parliaments. national parliaments also play a role in the control of their national governments, through which they participate in european politics. there is no shared responsibility for joint control, but each one is responsible for his own area. but to do this properly, we need to have a cooperation in which we inform each other so that we all know what is necessary to meet our control tasks accordingly. we must make it clear that this is only possible in the context of an agreement for national parliaments under article 9 of the protocol and not under article 10, because article 10 concerns cooperation between national parliaments with the participation of the european parliament. this is a cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament. this is a significant difference. i hope that we can reach a reasonable agreement on this basis, as we have repeated in various resolutions, for example in the gualtieri report, in my report, but also in this draft, in order to define in a reasonable way the position of the european parliament, which wants such cooperation and considers it urgent.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i too congratulate you on your new position. mr president, mr vice-president, it is very easy to follow the three previous speakers, because we have been in agreement on this subject for a long time in this house, across the political groups, and we are drawing a line. so just consider everything that's been said before as being repeated by me. i would like to add two things. the first is that you, mr vice-president, have referred to the polish presidency. this was an important point because we were able to note together that the polish presidency intends to attach particular importance to the csdp. it wants to be active in the pooling and sharing issue, for example, and in the battle groups issue. i think that this is a good basis for trying to make a real step forward in this area, also in partnership with the polish presidency. i would very much welcome it if our parliament would also approach the polish sejm and its committee responsible and those interested in this subject in poland very actively to ensure that we can actually make nails with heads here. and i would like to add a second point: because what has been said about the european parliament's role in the csdp is correct, parliament must also ensure that the subcommittee on defence and security, which is primarily responsible for this, is given the opportunity to actually fulfil this role within the framework of the internal rules in force in this parliament. and at this point we have a debt of gratitude! and at this point, we're not good enough! if we want our colleagues in the national parliaments to take us seriously, we must be able to act more effectively ourselves. we need to improve some of the rules.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not in no other area of policy does the european parliament have so little say as in foreign affairs, and especially in the military field. eu military operations are decided solely by the heads of state or government meeting within the european council. the european parliament has no say in the central question of war and peace, or even control. it is not even mandatory to inform the eu before an eu mission starts. the establishment of the european external action service, which has become the de facto executive arm of the cfsp, and the launch of the military operations fund enshrined in the lisbon treaty require more and more effective powers of control for national parliaments and the european parliament. the present resolution does mention the need to improve cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament, but it lacks very much in concrete proposals on how this should be done. the interparliamentary assembly which we are proposing, composed of representatives of the national and european levels, could provide an opportunity to remedy or at least to mitigate the glaring democratic deficits. this parliamentary assembly must be composed of all the parties represented in the parliaments in order to guarantee genuine democratic control of european foreign and security policy. it would be nice if our amendments, which we have tabled, were approved tomorrow.
the next item is the commission statement on the rules for the distribution of food to the needy in the union [2011/2722(rsp) ].
the debate was closed by four motions for resolutions, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the commission has the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr andrew duff, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on a proposal to amend the act of 20 september 1976 establishing direct elections to the european parliament (2009/2134 (ini)) (a7-0176/2011).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank you, on behalf of our group, for the years of work you have put into this project and for the enthusiasm and energy with which you are trying to get it done. we all know we have to get there sometime. you said it yourself earlier, is now the right time? i think that we must first of all adopt a report in september. we all know that it will probably take years, perhaps even decades, before this is finally implemented. but if we don't start now, we may not get there in the next few decades. i personally hope that i myself will live to see us become a real parliament with a single transnational list, because our german federal constitutional court has also demanded this and has stated that we are only truly legitimate when we are electable by every citizen of the union. in order to reach a compromise, i would recommend that we should try to accommodate the small countries by widening the circle of those who can be candidates on the transnational list, perhaps to 10%. our group chairman, guy verhofstadt, actually made a rather joking reference to this in his speech yesterday. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
i would like to make one thing clear: this is not a tool, mr president, for making a speech. that's an abuse of this instrument! you signed up for catch the eye. you're also on the list for catch the eye. you can consider deleting yourself from this list and then contacting us again.
mr fox, i would like to know how you classify in your comments to the citizens the fact that in some member states only candidates nominated by parties can be elected and that, moreover, in your member state only party members who have a kind of candidate licence from the party leadership can be nominated.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe needs innovative ideas to move forward, and ideas on how we can gradually achieve european democracy and how we can make a democratic europe a reality. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the citizens of the union are not excluded from the decision-making process. we really need european debates on european issues. and the people must have the choice to have the last word. you are the sovereign! that is why we need a european right of initiative, and we also need - i mean - european referendums. we need a reform of the electoral law. the european elections are still purely national affairs, run by national parties, with national candidates and mostly also on purely national issues. i think that this is, by the way, mainly an abuse of the european elections. we must make the elections and the issues more european. the proposal by andrew duff is such an innovative idea because it has direct and indirect effects. an indirect effect, for example, is that it forces the parties to adopt a european stance, to discuss european issues and programmes and to nominate european candidates. another effect is that citizens find european candidates on their ballot papers alongside national candidates. this proposal touches on the core issue of the european union and our work here. i am grateful for this controversial debate. because who are we representing here? we are only a union of member states, representing the interests of the citizens of our countries. or are we also representatives of a common european interest, representatives of the citizens of the union? and the truth is, we are both. we must not lose sight of one and we must not lose sight of the other. this means - and this applies equally to our citizens - that there are national points of view in an election, but also european points of view. i look forward to the day when citizens will find, alongside their ballot paper with the national candidates, a second ballot paper with european candidates. by the way, the greens are the benchmark here! the greens are the only party to date to have campaigned with a leading european candidate with a european programme. i believe that we owe this not only to the idea of europe but also to the reality of europe. so if one day british voters vote for french candidates and vice versa because they like them, then europe will be one step ahead!
i have to say, madam president, mr president, if we have a list of 25 candidates, then of course these candidates will not come from one country, but from 25 countries. that's what every party will do. would you agree that this is why the small countries actually have the relative advantage over the big ones? it's the exact opposite of what you're arguing here.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report by mr duff - and i expressly welcome his long-term work - makes concrete proposals to strengthen the european dimension. some of them are obviously not majority-supported, but his approach is correct and deserves broad support and public debate, including outside the hemicycle. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. they reflect the divergent interests and experiences with the european union. the european parliament is the only institution in the world which has the power to decide on the future of democracy. i therefore say a clear yes to the report's right question and its call to go beyond the negotiating mandate to the council from the outset. the citizens must have a voice in this process, and the european political parties must be active.
i have to say, madam president, thirty years after the first direct elections to the european parliament, we need a fundamental reform of the electoral system. the deficits of the european elections are obvious. we must not stagnate, we must not stand still, but we must take the next step forward. the next step is indeed this strategic instrument of european lists alongside national lists. democracy is discourse, deliberation, as professor habermas used to say. that's exactly our problem. the political class has a national discourse. the debate is stuck in the national arena. we have no comprehensive european debate, no european political space, and the european lists would force the political class to come together and think in a european way, to argue in a european way and also to make the alternatives visible to the citizens, which europe they will then have to choose when they vote. i hope we can get through these european lists with your report, andrew duff. we need that vision, and we should not give in. parliament has already decided this and we cannot be less ambitious than our predecessors.
i have to say, madam president, andrew duff has presented us with a visionary and - as he himself says - radical proposal for electoral reform. i think that is a good thing, we need proposals, we need more europe in european policy! but the reality is different at the moment: 18 colleagues are still waiting to enter parliament, and we are already talking about adding 25 colleagues to the parliament. i think it is good that this report, which i support in most respects, is being discussed again in the afco committee and that we then adopt this duff report by a large majority in the third reading here because we need a uniform electoral system. i want to share with him many of the visions andrew duff has. i hope that we will then adopt the final report in the second half of this year and then put it into practice. but i think we need a large majority and not just a slim majority, because then we will really have a voice with this proposal!
i have to say, madam president, the debate is characterised by the discussion of a visionary idea. unfortunately, since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, parliament's responsibilities have gone far beyond its role as the creative arm of the european union. we are required to drill the thick boards as well. the report is unfortunately lagging behind this objective. the first point of the conclusion is that we want to see that the distribution of seats is more equitable. the european parliament will be re-elected on monday next, three years from now. we are 40% of the way through the term and the number one is not enough. we have to do our homework there. we need reliable criteria for the composition of the european parliament. i am in favour of raising the level of the smaller member states for the sake of their identity. but if we have the situation where some members represent 80 000 citizens and others 800 000, and it is at the time of the vote when one citizen 'pings' and the other 'plunges', then we must give a clear explanation of why this is so. we used to talk about a democratic deficit because parliament had no say in it. today we are allowing it to be said in karlsruhe that we have a democratic deficit because we do not have a recognisable ratio in the composition of parliament. that's what we need! that is why i think we have not done enough. we need something that is beyond doubt and that looks into the future, no matter how the population develops. and then we don't need another democratic deficit in the future, mr duff. you have presented a very complicated formula. the important thing is that we do not have a democratic deficit in the sense that 75% of the teachers can also explain to 75% of the pupils how the european parliament is composed.
member of the commission. − madam president, we welcome the ‘progress on mine action’ report by mr van orden. we agree that considerable progress has been made on this issue but that there remains, however, much to do, particularly with regard to the most vulnerable countries, which continue to need international support, and in the field of victim assistance. the eu’s goal is to see the complete eradication of anti-personnel mines, whilst addressing related economic and social problems. the report correctly points out that, while the number of new mine victims is decreasing, there is still a need for assistance to victims. significant humanitarian and development challenges therefore remain. the report rightly points to the huge effort already made by the international community. as part of this effort, the eu and member states have collectively provided political, financial and scientific support to mine action worldwide. financial support amounted to nearly eur 1.8 billion in the last ten years. this constitutes around half of the world’s financial assistance to mine action. our support has taken many forms. firstly, through common foreign policy joint actions we have provided support to mine clearance, we have promoted implementation of the landmark ottawa convention, we have enhanced our efforts to secure greater adherence to the convention, and we are also now preparing a new council decision after the second review conference of the ottawa convention held in cartagena, colombia in 2009. secondly, through the provision of development assistance, the union budget has contributed around eur 400 million for the period 2002-2010. thirdly, we agree that it will be necessary to review the guidelines on european community action. these aim to ensure the mainstreaming of mine action in national development programmes and to promote links between security and these programmes. this approach requires beneficiary countries to prioritise mine action in their programmes, as called for in the report. we also agreed to focus on developing greater local capacity and that future assistance should be earmarked for those countries least able to help themselves. finally, i would like to assure all the members of parliament that certain mine action activities have been funded under the crisis response provisions of the instrument for stability. humanitarian aid has also made a contribution, for example in pakistan, north sudan, south sudan and sri lanka. in conclusion, let me underline an important aspect which was not covered by the report. we are concerned about the increasing number of mine victims resulting from mines laid by non-state actors. this is a serious issue which requires further reflection and action by all states that are party to the ottawa convention. finally, i would like to assure you that eu mine action will remain a prominent element of eu external action and to thank you again for this important report.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. next year will be the first year in which there will be more pensioners than workers in europe. this is a major cut, a turning point in europe. it is a good sign that we are voting today on this year 2012 as the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations and that we will also celebrate it properly and present it to the public. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the commission, the council and the shadow rapporteurs for the fact that we have reached a compromise in the first reading which we are presenting today and will be adopting together. i would like to draw your attention to an amendment which i would ask you to support: a european year also needs a certain publicity, we also need a little money for this and we have also fought for a budget line so that there is a certain amount to present the issue of solidarity between the generations, the issue of active ageing, in public. thank you very much, and i'd like your approval. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful to the rapporteur, martin kastler, for having prepared this subject and for allowing us to vote on it in parliament today: european year for active ageing 2012. i like that we talk about active aging, because demographic change is not a theory, it's actually happening. we must all be prepared to do so. but we should not only emphasize the risks, but also the opportunities. my predecessor has already said this: our elderly people are fortunately not only healthier for longer, they are also better educated, they can also be active for longer. we should also see this as an opportunity for our society and use it. the european year can help to bring these problems to the forefront of the social debate!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am a firm supporter of the european union, as much as i appreciate the responsibility and the right of the member states to participate. this is not a european union for politicians, nor is it a european union for business, but above all a european union for the citizens who live here. and the freedom of movement, the free movement of people between the member states within the european union is the most visible expression of this for our citizens. we must defend this right and we must resist any attempt to restrict this freedom of movement for reasons of national interest and national egoism. so in that sense, defend the beginnings! this has nothing to do with the fact that we must of course ensure that the external borders of the european union are reliably controlled and protected. but within the european union we must not casually sacrifice the great right of freedom of movement on the altar of political populism!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a shame, of course, that people are still suffering from hunger in the european union, which is now considered a developed economic body. we should help these people, of course, that's one side. on the other hand, we must ensure that the aid for people in need is always provided from the region or from the local level. the member states also have a great responsibility in this respect. for example, in germany we have developed and established a social assistance system that ensures that no one in germany will have to suffer from hunger. i would ask that in this reflection, which is about doing good, we should also strive for a responsible and unbureaucratic implementation and, above all, that the member states should not leave the regions out of the picture in their commitment.
i have to say, madam president, we had a delegation of women from east kivu visit us twice at the human rights committee, and both times they told us about the atrocities there, but also about what they are doing to bring the perpetrators to justice, and how they are organizing the lives of women. unfortunately, last week the representatives also gave us very credible assurances that last year the eu representatives in the congo were unfortunately unable to meet these women to find out what could be done for them. on the contrary, we have been told that even existing projects have been discontinued. i therefore now link this to the request to the commission to investigate and correct this. it would be very bad if such small projects aimed at helping victims could no longer be continued.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the death penalty is a particularly cruel and inhumane punishment which does not deter but rather leads to a further brutalization of society. this is also true of davinder pal singh and mahendra nath das in india, although the individual offences are particularly reprehensible. we therefore call on the indian government to convert these death sentences into prison sentences. but we must also consider the background of professor singh, who applied for asylum in germany and was rejected. despite public protests in germany warning of a possible execution in india, he was deported in 1995 and arrested upon arrival in delhi. the german authorities have casually ignored the fact that it is forbidden to deport someone if there is a threat of torture and the death penalty. this was illegal. this was also found by a frankfurt court. the european union is not a party to the geneva conventions, but it is a party to the geneva conventions. this applies to the policy of deportation as well as to the policy of arms exports, which should also be based on the human rights situation on the ground in germany. but now we are hearing again that this is being blatantly trampled on, even if arms exports such as tanks are to be exported to saudi arabia. this has nothing to do with any human rights policy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i should like to support the intervention of mr verhofstadt on behalf of my group. i would like to ask the question, however, whether the european institutions are doing themselves a favour by meeting mr berlusconi on a day when he is due to appear in court on charges relating to the prostitution of minors in italy. (applause from the centre) if we want the european institutions to be taken seriously in italy - and this is really what is needed now - then we should not choose to go along with mr berlusconi in a way that allows him to miss another court date in italy. i would ask you, mr buzek and mr barroso, to really consider whether mr berlusconi has to meet you here on this very day when he is due to stand trial in italy. these discussions, including with the committees mentioned, could well take place on other days of the week. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. could it be that mr berlusconi will come tomorrow? i have just heard from mr mauro that he is coming tomorrow because he wants to be the first to congratulate mr schulz on his nomination tomorrow. could that be the case? (cheers and applause) i have another matter to attend to, mr president. on wednesday, from 2 to 3.30 p.m., here in the chamber, there will be a so-called open session of the conference of presidents. we shall be cutting short our plenary session to hear an international official. until now, the plenary chamber was reserved for heads of state or government, council presidents, etc. i think it is outrageous that we should cut short our plenary session because someone in this house has suggested that we should hear an official instead of the plenary. i would ask you very strongly to allow the plenary session to begin at 3 p.m. and to allow the debate on the debt crisis to continue throughout the morning.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we have discussed at the conference of presidents what is the sensible course of action. i think we have made the right decision, to hold the debate this week, but to base the resolution on the information gathered by our own delegation travelling to libya. i do not think it is useful to formulate resolutions immediately before the delegation travels to the country concerned. i think we should stick to the proposal of the conference of presidents and reject the proposal of the epp group.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for giving us the opportunity to make a declaration on the state of play of the multilateral trade negotiations. allow me first to briefly recall the present state of the doha development agenda negotiations within the world trade organisation. as you know, the negotiations were revitalised in early 2011 following strong political guidance by the leaders of the g20. the objective was to reach outlines of a comprehensive package by the summer, and to finalise the agreement by the end of the year. however, in the spring it became clear that a full doha outcome could not be reached in 2011 due to a political impasse in the negotiations on industrial tariffs. the cause for this is fundamentally divergent expectations regarding the reciprocity of commitments that developed and emerging countries should make in opening their markets: one side asked for almost full harmonisation of commitments, while others insisted on far-reaching special and differential treatment. the eu’s position has been somewhere between the two extremes, asking the emerging countries to make ambitious commitments, while recognising that a certain degree of flexibility is still justified. although the eu compromise proposal got large support from the industries concerned, there was unfortunately not enough traction around the negotiating table to negotiate further on the basis of this – i believe – good proposal. wto members then tried to agree on a narrower set of results by year-end. the idea was that this interim package would address particularly the specific needs of the least developed countries, complemented with other components, such as an agreement on trade facilitation. but progress proved very elusive, and at the trade negotiations committee at the end of july, the wto director general had to conclude that the package was not taking shape. mr lamy then suggested that the membership shift its focus to preparing discussions at the december wto ministerial conference regarding regular wto work, as well as the negotiating agenda beyond 2011. prospects for reaching concrete negotiating results in the short term look rather bleak. for the commission, this state of affairs is deeply disappointing. the eu has played a proactive and constructive role in the negotiations throughout 2011, including by developing a solid compromise proposal in the key area of tariffs on industrial goods, and by consistently calling for deliverables to least developed countries without payment. but in the absence of political will and flexibility in wto members’ positions, it has not been possible to reach tangible progress in the negotiations. the eu has always been a staunch defender of multilateralism. all institutions see eye-to-eye on this. therefore, the commission welcomes the strong support that the motion for a resolution expresses for the wto as the guarantor of a rules-based trade system and as a key instrument of global economic governance. the commission fully shares this view, and considers that the eu has a strong interest in a process of multilateral trade liberalisation which advances and remains relevant. the commission will therefore participate in a proactive manner in the consultation process that the wto director general is leading regarding the next steps in the multilateral negotiating agenda. the commission’s approach to these consultations will be guided by three basic principles: first, the wto needs to have an ambitious negotiating agenda that contributes to the recovery and rebalancing of the global economy; second, wto members must not throw out the baby with the bathwater, but build on what is already on the table; third, particular attention should be put on addressing the legitimate needs of the least developed countries. mr president, honourable members of parliament, i thank you for your attention, and look forward to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i thank you for the good cooperation in the preparation of this resolution and i hope that the recent discussions will be positive and fruitful. i am firmly convinced that international trade needs a strong and decisive world trade organization. the economic and financial crisis has shown that the existing trade rules have protected the vast majority of member states from protectionist measures. this is a real success, even if we see some tendencies in the opposite direction. the wto and with it the whole of trade law is a great gain. it is essential to continue the current path of intensive global cooperation and to take further steps towards integration in this area. i am very sorry to see the dda come to a standstill, or even not come into existence. but we also have to recognize this: the countries negotiating are not the same as they were at the start of the doha round ten years ago. we have all changed during this period, and therefore the discussion must continue on a sectoral basis. i personally think it's unrealistic to stick to a grand design. but we can overcome the situation and prevent further damage. we need a strong wto - we, the european union, need it. we need to strengthen them, because we're going to need them even more.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european parliament, in its resolution, gives you a clear mandate, commissioner de gucht, at this critical stage of the doha negotiations: fight in geneva for a positive interim result at multilateral level which contributes to the reduction of poverty in the world! we are here today to establish the status quo and therefore, with a view to the future - and as mr taylor has just said: do you remember the beginning of these negotiations? the doha round was launched ten years ago, inspired by the new york attacks, with the aim of developing the wto to improve living conditions in developing countries and thus to provide a basis for hate propaganda. but it is your negotiators and those of your competitors who are focusing on opening up global markets for services and penetrating previously protected sectors of public services. the developing countries have been able to resist the imposition of this opening together in the wto. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european union's environmental policy. this approach has not been shown to reduce poverty. it even threatens the establishment of a system of fair and globally valid trade rules under the umbrella of the wto. my group therefore urges you to return to the primacy of multilateral agreement. at least get the so-called ldc package of improvements for the world's poorest to be concluded in geneva. we also call on you to withdraw today the threat made by the commission that if the doha round fails, it will not abide by the promise to abolish eu export subsidies for agricultural products. in view of the current famine in east africa and the increasingly difficult situation of farmers - not only in the developing countries but particularly in those countries - the abolition of export subsidies must be accelerated.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the doha negotiations have been going on for ten years now. the world was a different place then. how have the brics countries developed over the last decade? the conditions have really changed fundamentally. but in principle, i think the objectives that the partners have set themselves remain valid: we must urgently help the poorest of the poor and we must strengthen the multilateral trading system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the importance of the wto is seen when you consider what the world would look like if there were no wto. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union today, with some 500 million inhabitants? in a few years, we'll be maybe 5 or 6 percent of the world's population. who is going to take care of the poorest of the poor if we fail to make progress within the wto? what about emerging countries like china, india, russia, brazil? who will encourage these countries to sit down at the same table, work together on a common system of rules and then also abide by the rules? so we urgently need a strong wto. what i would have liked more from the commission - and i would be very grateful if you could comment on this, commissioner - is an answer to the question of how things are going now. how do we as the european union respond to the dramatically changed world of the last decade? i have the impression that in most areas, in the framework of the trade strategy you have presented, we actually have a 'going on'. that certainly makes sense in the short term. but when do we really invest time to think about what our responses are to the changing world? what should be the european union's trade strategy for the world in 10 or 15 years' time? i would be very grateful if we could hear a little more about this today, but also take the time to really reflect, as a parliament, in a workshop with the commission, perhaps for half a day or a whole day in the committee responsible, on the consequences of the likely failure of the wto round.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on industry, the colleagues from many other committees who have contributed, in particular the environment committee, the commission and many from civil society, science and industry who have contributed, for their cooperation. in fact, raw materials policy is one of our major industrial policy challenges. but it is also one of our great opportunities. i have been very interested in this subject for the last year and a half. i am convinced that with a very prudent but equally ambitious innovation strategy - if we put it at the heart of our efforts - we can achieve great success. resource efficiency, recycling, recycling or even substitution - these are the main strategies we are talking about, and our future competitiveness should be based on this innovation strategy. secondly, if you set goals but don't think about the tools, you rarely get there. it is therefore particularly important to reflect on the question and to make concrete agreements among ourselves on how we can organise our cooperation between the member states and between the member states and the commission in a proper way and how we can take real responsibility. effective governance is the key to this issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have identified a whole range of instruments in this report with which we can strengthen governance. we suggest a risk radar. we want the commission to continue its list of critical raw materials and to analyse supply chains. we want a study to be made of critical raw materials, such as lithium, which are not on the list so far, but are still of strategic importance. we propose to create a network of expertise for rare earths. we are very much in favour of the commission's initiative for an innovation partnership for resource efficiency, which is being blocked by some member states, finally coming to fruition. we want a high-level task force to be set up to bring together the different actors - the directorates-general, the joint research centre, the european environment agency, the european external action service and others - in a strategic coherence. we want a raw materials roadmap to 2050 and an annual progress report to the european parliament, and we are here to advocate that the laws we have in the recycling sector, for example on e-waste, are actually enforced. thirdly, this report also deals with the external dimension of raw materials policy. my principle is that we have a reliable strategy of cooperation with the outside world, both with the resource-rich poor countries - in africa, for example - and with the resource-rich strong countries. the point is that europe, which imports more raw materials per capita than any other region in the world, should take responsibility on the basis of such a cooperative raw materials strategy. this means, for example, that when investing in the extraction of resources in third countries, the european investment bank and the commission will examine whether such projects are embedded in a strategy against poverty and for development. this means, for example, that transparency legislation is being made on the american model of the dodd-frank act or on the publish-what-you-pay principle. this means not making development policy the servant of resource interests, but accepting the resource sovereignty of our partners, while at the same time fighting distortions and promoting cooperation in the common interest. i am sure that the eu can make a very positive contribution to international commodity governance on this basis in the many international bodies that already exist.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking not only formally mr bütikofer for the text he has drawn up, but also all the members who have tabled opinions on the report, because i think that the result achieved is extremely positive and in line with the european commission's action to tackle the very important problem of raw materials from a strategic point of view. why do i say that this report has convinced me and why do i say that it is in line with the strategy of the european commission and therefore politically strengthens joint action and cooperation between the commission and parliament in this very important area? the report is a comprehensive approach to the problems and opportunities we may face. secondly, because it strikes the right balance between the different policy options and thirdly because it contains concrete and extremely interesting suggestions and recommendations which contribute to the development and improvement of a strategy. i said at the beginning of my speech that i consider cooperation between parliament and the commission to be essential and we have been working with mr bütikofer for months now, but with many other members, i am thinking of the 'raw material club' which, on the initiative of members from different political families, rübig, florenz, merkies, bütikofer, and the recent proposal also by the itre committee to launch a pilot project in 2012 to set up a network of expertise on rare earths, which i believe can make a very good contribution to the future raw materials partnership. the reason why political involvement of all the institutions is becoming essential is clear, and your report describes it very well. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this report. i was struck by what mr bütikofer said about the fact that the share of expenditure on raw materials in total production expenditure is much higher than the share of expenditure on wages and salaries and that the trend is upwards in the medium term for all sectors. i would now like to focus on some of the key aspects of this strategy which, in its three different pillars, sourcing outside the union, sourcing within the union, resource efficiency, recycling and replacement are in my view indispensable elements and i am convinced and pleased that parliament agrees with this. innovation is essential to make progress in each of the areas covered by the union's raw materials strategy, which must be completed by covering the entire value chain from exploration, extraction, processing, recycling and substitution. the launch of an innovation partnership in the raw materials sector can therefore also be an important stimulus to help achieve concrete steps forward. i am even more optimistic than mr bütikofer. the other issue that was addressed in the report, but also in bütikofer's speech, is raw materials diplomacy: it is essential that these matters become a constant concern in our international relations, both in terms of trade and other aspects. with the united states and japan we have taken the first steps towards closer cooperation in this area, the african union and the european union, both in the africa-eu strategy and in the joint action plan, have committed to work towards a coherent vision of the development of extractive activities of raw materials to support african capacities at national and subregional or continental level. the africa-european union high level conference on raw materials to be held on 1 december will provide the political impetus needed to take this partnership forward. russia too, i will be in moscow at the end of october, and latin america, i was in chile last june, are fronts we are working on. we have signed an agreement with chile, i am working to sign it in the next few months, before the end of the year, with argentina and brazil. we recall that chile is one of the main producers of lithium and of very high quality lithium, perhaps the best in the world, and the relationship with the european union was greeted with great enthusiasm, as was also underlined by a meeting with the president of the republic and the whole government, precisely to underline the importance of the strategic agreement on raw materials with the union. as regards sustainability, efforts to reconcile extractive activities with high environmental protection requirements must be continued. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, and the introduction of a new environmental policy. i am therefore working in perfect harmony with commissioner potočnik. this is an area which falls largely within the competence of the member states, but the commission can act as a facilitator and the ultimate responsibility, of course, rests with the states. finally, we will adopt next week the resource efficiency flagship initiative, which will provide a number of concrete responses, particularly with regard to recycling. the examples i have given are only a few examples and i want to tell parliament that i am also working intensively with the swedish government which organised a major meeting on the extraction of raw materials in the barents sea right here a few months ago before the summer break and i will be in sweden, i am in contact with minister carl bildt, to work together and i also want to inform parliament that he has also met the new president of the greenland council and we are already working on my visit to greenland to deal with the raw materials issue. greenland is willing to join us in a process of dealing with and developing a long-term strategy on the subject of raw materials. this is all we are doing and, again, i consider it extremely important - i apologize if i have taken longer than expected, but the subject is of such importance that it deserves a thorough debate - this strong relationship with parliament will be decisive precisely in drawing up a solid strategy that will allow us to give concrete answers to industry without causing environmental damage.
the committee's opinion was drawn up in the light of the work done by the advisory committee on development. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by thanking mr bütikofer very warmly for his report. as the permanent rapporteur on policy coherence for development, i am very, very grateful to the itre committee at this point that many of the suggestions made by the development committee have been taken up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i will give you an example: developing countries lose, by questionable accounting practices of international commodity companies and by poor contracts with these companies, an estimated $80 to $160 billion a year. if you compare this to the european union's development aid, we are at 8 billion a year. this means that what we are doing is a drop in the bucket compared to the big picture. it is therefore very important that the report clearly identifies transparency initiatives such as the eiti. as these initiatives are unfortunately only viable in the long term, i welcome concrete offers of assistance under the joint africa eu strategy action plan 2011-2013, for example in the negotiation of contracts with commodity companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - mr president, i have to say something. mr president, i too would like to thank you for the detailed report and the hard work you have put into it. mr commissioner, raw materials policy is essential for the development of european industry. the trade dimension is also very important, and in this respect i think it is right and good that raw materials policy should be anchored in the international context from the point of view of industrial policy in europe. the following points are crucial: if we want to ensure the security of our resources in the world through partnership agreements, then we can only do this by making sure that the companies that extract these resources also behave sensibly. it is not acceptable that european companies cheat on taxes or that their employees work in conditions which are inhumane. so it is clear that if we want to extract raw materials, then companies must comply with clear social and environmental standards. secondly, we also need to ensure that the raw materials we use do not come from crisis regions and are not used to finance groups that make money from raw materials and wage civil wars. we need an international certification system for the extraction of raw materials and for the supply chains, so that we can understand where raw materials come from. by the way, there are indeed good footprints for raw materials everywhere. thirdly, we must ensure that we do not export raw materials illegally. we must eliminate loopholes in our legislation for our own good, karl-heinz florenz! we also need to improve controls. if one man is to be in charge of all the controls in a large european port, it will not work. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide a more comprehensive and more effective framework for the development of the internal market. the commission is fortunately taking the right steps in this respect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, a warm thanks to the rapporteur, mr reinhard bütikofer, for his excellent report. the commission's strategy is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and it is not the commission's strategy that is the most important. but the raw materials strategy is a lifeline for the economy, employment and jobs here in the european union. a coherent strategy is therefore essential. of course, we need the three pillars: securing our own sources of raw materials, a recycling strategy including efficiency improvements, but also a joint approach to build partnerships with the world's main raw material suppliers. the amendments tabled by the liberal group are aimed at ensuring that we include scientists more closely in this strategy, because there are many modern technologies, such as the exploitation of resources from the seabed, in the oceans, which have yet to be explored and developed. it is here that europeans can also offer raw material suppliers in the third world and emerging countries something in the framework of a common raw material strategy. we as liberals believe that it is also necessary to take into account that small and mediumsized enterprises need our special help. large companies can secure their own resources, but small and medium-sized enterprises need a common strategy. we therefore call on you to move forward together, to unite the member states under the umbrella of the eu and to build long-term partnerships with the resource countries. economic policy, environmental policy and international trade together with development policy from a single source - this must be the aim of the raw materials strategy!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr reinhard bütikofer, i would like to thank you for your good and balanced report. i was very happy to hear that. i believe that this report will help to bring the awareness problem we have in europe to the attention of the commission. we know how long we have been waiting for this report. it is not commissioner tajani who is responsible for this, but all those working with him. we also have information from the last meeting of the environment council, where the commissioner presented the raw materials strategy and this report was unanimously supported by the members. however, on the second item on the agenda, the electronic waste directive, there was no solidarity in setting standards and taking the necessary measures and putting them in this directive. it was a disaster, it was a valley of tears! the council has not been able to reach an agreement with the commission, which is relatively rare, and i am very glad that commissioner potočnik has been opposed to this. so i think this report can bring some movement to our subject. because if the climate problem is only half as big as we're hearing, then we need highly innovative continents like europe developing cutting-edge technologies. this requires the processing of valuable raw materials, which we can then sell worldwide. i therefore believe that the three pillars proposed by the commission cannot be implemented one by one - i differ from one or other of my green colleagues on this - but that we must implement them all together. if you want to misinterpret the raw materials diplomacy, you can. i am concerned that we are also dealing with third world countries in a decent way, which unfortunately we have not done for the last 20, 30 years. we should seek allies there so that our export and import possibilities can be expanded, so that we can react together, so that we can find a way of dealing with each other, so that the regions where we mine ore, for example, can also benefit and profit from it and, for example, schools can be built. the second point is the intra-community question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm quite sure that in the future there will be no copper water pipes and we will get new pipes through chemistry. there is great potential for industry here. as a farmer, i cannot of course avoid the subject of ffh. ffh is good, ffh is born, but please do not overdo it! the fifg directive must be seen as an instrument for protecting the environment. my family has been protecting the environment for 300 years. we don't need regulations like that. but if the fifg directive becomes a weapon against raw materials policy, then it will be serious and we will have to act together with caution. the third pillar, which has already been raised by many here, is the question: what are we doing in europe? recycling policy, efficiency policy is the first order of business let's get started right away!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. many have spoken of the importance of raw materials for the competitiveness and sustainability of the european economy. many have pointed out how dependent we are on mineral resources, even in companies, in terms of jobs. the most recent example of consumers realizing what this means was a small lighting company's suggestion that energy-efficient light bulbs are now priced higher because of the difficulties with rare earths. it is a huge price increase! that means it's the railway's highest duty to take care of the matter! i am very grateful to mr bütikofer for having succeeded in finding answers in the most balanced way possible. because i think that the question of whether you have an impact is not that everyone puts their head down and presents their opinion as the only correct one, but that you present contexts. the commission's approach with its three pillars is therefore the right one, and we must take care to develop new sources of raw materials in europe too. a colleague just pointed out that we are also called upon to think about technology. mr florenz pointed out that we would then also have conflicts with other legislation and we would have to decide where the limits are and what the value of one or the other is or how we can exploit new resources. and secondly, of course, it is imperative that we also use recycling to a greater extent than we can today. that's not a question at all. but not according to the motto "at any cost", but wisely, rationally, even differentiated. the question of international relations is also an element. president. - the next item is the report (doc. i think it is imperative that international agreements and cooperation are necessary so that we in europe can also make better use of our potential in this distribution of raw materials, of course in a decent way in dealing with other countries. but limiting growth or the commission's guidelines on how to use raw materials or stricter regulations - that is the wrong way! i am grateful that we have found a way of putting the complex issue of taxation in words that allow everyone to agree. i would ask my colleagues to ensure that this wording is retained so that we can all agree to it in the future. the vast majority of parliament is more important than getting his own head.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate the commission's position, which i believe is in full agreement with the text presented by mr bütikofer: we are looking for a balanced strategy on raw materials, based on three pillars: an internal strategy within the european union, a strategy outside the european union and action to promote innovation. i would like to start with the latter, and i repeat, a balanced position, a balanced strategy. the european commission, in one of its first documents on innovation, insisted on innovation partnerships, and the second innovation partnership is precisely the one on raw materials. it has the consent of the council and we intend to proceed with the involvement of the european parliament in this choice. it is therefore incorrect to say that the european commission thought first of other things and then of innovation partnership and action in favour of recycling, and i am sorry that many of the members who raised the questions are absent at this moment, but our choice in favour of action in favour of recycling and replacement came even before the presentation of the document on raw materials. as regards the strategy within the european union, perhaps i spoke in italian and was too quick and mr ulvskog could not hear what i said about sweden: i said greenland is one of the places where we're going to work to see what we can do in terms of raw materials. i said that i had attended and shared with the swedish government a meeting organized at the european parliament by the foreign minister of the kingdom of sweden on the barents sea raw materials initiative. i have already scheduled a visit to sweden with the foreign minister of the kingdom of sweden to see what can be done on the spot with regard to raw materials, i repeat, because it may be that the translation was not accurate because i spoke in italian and therefore i wanted to reassure mr ulvskog that i have not forgotten sweden, but greenland was part of denmark until recently and now there is a union with the danish crown and i think it is not so far from our europe. as regards international politics, i have no intention of doing so, i would like to reassure you, and i am sorry that mr matias and mr figueiredo are not here at the moment. i have no intention of pursuing neo-colonial policies in africa. the whole action has been studied in meetings with the african union in close contact with many countries of the african union, precisely because africa must not be considered a victim of a new colonialism and i do not think that europe is at this moment aiming at neocolonial action. as regards a point which was raised in the course of the presentation of their opinion by mr schnieber-jastram and mr lange, and which was then underlined by mr ek, i would say that the commission is seriously committed to supporting the initiative for transparency in the extractive industries, and that this represents an emerging global standard for the transparency of revenues and the accountability of the sector. we have recently stepped up support for this initiative by contributing to the multi-donor trust fund and co-funding a union of experts, supporting projects at national level and participating more in the council. however, the initiative still has shortcomings, starting with the fact that of the more than 50 countries considered by the imf to be rich in hydrocarbons and mineral resources, only nine have so far complied with the rules of the extractive industries transparency initiative. as regards a formal proposal to be submitted on country-by-country reporting following discussion with the member states of the union with parliament, the commission is looking into the possibility of introducing a country-by-country financial reporting obligation for companies listed in the union and that this autumn, depending on the outcome of the ongoing evaluation, we may present a legislative proposal on this subject. the proposal will complement and strengthen the eiti transparency initiative and will be implemented in the same spirit as the us dodd-frank act to which mr bütikofer referred. the public consultation on this topic took place from october 2010 to 2011 and is currently being evaluated. as regards the last point, the one on storage, we believe that it is essentially up to firms to ensure the supply of raw materials and that the role of the political and institutional authorities is to ensure the most suitable working conditions. however, the commission is ready to discuss in close cooperation with the member states the desirability of a programme for the storage of raw materials, the way in which it should be implemented and the added value of such a programme which could, among other things, be inspired by the existing programme for the storage of oil. the examination of this possibility was initiated by an exploratory inquiry which is still ongoing. i have not answered all the questions raised in the debate but i should like to speak for another half hour and i think it is important to listen to mr bütikofer instead. i remain, however, at the disposal of all members to deal also individually with all the issues which concern the community strategy on raw materials.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank all of you for your contributions. i also thank the vice-president of the commission, mr tajani, for his comments, in particular his support for the establishment of a rare earths competence network and the other practical proposals he has made; thank you very much, mr. tajani! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's resources are used in a proper manner. i think there's a lot of work to be done here. but we must also be sensitive, particularly in ecologically sensitive areas. it is important - at least that is what the report says - that we do not make a false contrast between industrial policy and nature conservation. i was therefore pleased that the directorate-general for the environment and the directorate-general for enterprise were able to reach an agreement. urban mining is important. our mines are also the old laptops and cell phones in the drawers. but we have to make recycling an economic solution. i'm just saying this because last week i was at the opening of the world's most advanced lithium battery recycling plant. this must also be an economic solution. cradle to cradle is a great prospect. waste is an old-fashioned word. we need to discuss the stockpile. i hear different voices from some in the commission. i know that mr de gucht, for example, is very critical of this. i am not yet convinced how we are to achieve stockpiling of rare earths, for example, when china is currently reducing production further. but let's discuss this. i would like to say to mrs girling, who is no longer here, in her own words: we must be careful about all these issues and also about impact assessment. finally, on the external aspect, i do not consider the policy of raw materials to be neo-colonialism. otherwise the commission and parliament would not have recognised the principle of raw material sovereignty. it's important to me that we don't waste any time. we must work with the united states and japan, but we must also see that japan, for example, is investing enormous research resources in developing substitution strategies.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
that concludes this item.
the next item is the report by sophia in't veld, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the eu's counter-terrorism policy: key achievements and future challenges (2010/2311 (ini)) (a7-0286/2011).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mrs sophia in't veld for presenting this report, which has been adopted by a large majority in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i am a little surprised that some groups are trying to reopen this. i am also surprised at the reaction of mr díaz de mera. i believe it is absolutely necessary that we evaluate the eu's counter-terrorism policy, above all to ensure a better policy on terrorism. so, if you're a strong advocate, as i am, of pursuing terrorists and preventing terrorist attacks, you have to advocate that we also effectively evaluate the ten years of efforts that we've had, both in terms of prioritization, in terms of cost, in terms of the ratio of interventions, for example, in civil rights and rule of law standards, and on the other hand, evaluate the actions that we've taken. i think that is important to the people and to this parliament, and that it would be right to do so now. i think it is absolutely dangerous to fall back into the camps here now, so to speak.
i have to say, madam president, i welcome the report by mrs edith bauer. it describes the situation very concretely: with the demographic change that is taking place, the situation of older women is deteriorating dramatically. the future is old, it's poor, and it's also female. women have shorter working careers, with breaks for child rearing and care. and they earn less than men, on average. the unemployment rate is higher for women than for men, and women are four times more likely to be in parttime employment. they work very well, but they don't always get paid. women's low lifetime income also affects their pensions and increases the risk of old age poverty. the report also highlights the positive aspects. older people represent a huge cultural, social and professional enrichment. their contribution to society is all too often overlooked and their full commitment is not sufficiently exploited. the challenge for society today is to reward people according to their capabilities, to keep them in the labour market longer and to ensure that they remain healthy, active and independent long after they have retired.
in writing. older women face two types of discrimination in the labour market: one based on gender and the other based on age. the consequence for women over 65 is old age poverty. in particular, the increasing number of atypical and precarious employment relationships, in which women are predominantly employed, is a growing problem in europe. we must ensure that women between 55 and 64 remain in the labour market and are not excluded. but we also need to create the conditions for them to return. in particular, in 2012, the european commission should step up its efforts to improve the situation of older women and increase their participation in the labour market, as part of the year of active ageing. improving equality policies and improving training opportunities are just two of the keys to long-term improvement in the situation of older women in the labour market. balancing family and work is crucial. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
i have to say, madam president, ensuring better access to justice is one of the main objectives of the european union's policy to create an area of freedom, security and justice. in a modern, globalised and digital economy, citizens' trust in the judiciary is a crucial factor. the mediation directive is a milestone in this respect. now, at any stage of the procedure, any judge in the eu has the opportunity to ensure that two parties to a dispute, with the help of a mediator, voluntarily and on their own responsibility seek to resolve their dispute by mutual agreement. in doing so, the directive ensures that the mediation procedure prevents the expiry of the limitation periods. in addition, agreements entered into by virtue of the limitation period may acquire the status of an enforceable authentic instrument. it is also important to provide mediators with sound training in quality assurance and to strengthen citizens' confidence in the system. after the transposition deadline, most member states have notified transposition. but it is not only the fact that it is implemented that is important, but above all how it is implemented. this requires consultation with experts and lawyers to ensure optimum improvement.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. we in the committee on foreign affairs, and in particular the committee on human rights, have also been working intensively on the report and on improving frontex. we have proposed a very comprehensive catalogue of measures to shape and improve the human rights work of frontex. as commissioner malmström has said, the situation could not continue as it is. because there was too little awareness of how frontex works and frontex did not have a good reputation in the media and in the individual member states. it has often been asked how it is that thousands of people drown and no one comes to their rescue. individual journalists and refugee organizations have also documented that even aid has been withheld. i think it is positive that the parliament's proposal has now been implemented, that frontex staff have received training in human rights policy, that a fundamental rights officer has been created, that there is an agreement with the fundamental rights agency in vienna, and that there must be reporting in the event of misconduct and certain incidents. these are all positive things. but i would also like to point out that we have not been able to reach a majority in favour of having independent observers from frontex who will also monitor these new rules and who can, for example, participate in individual missions. so the question remains whether what we have created will actually be applied. and i think we still need the independent monitoring by non-state actors.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. there is hardly an eu-created institution that is as controversial as frontex on human rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the threat of a crisis. frontex is, at its core, a wrong policy towards refugees in europe, who leave their countries not only because of political persecution but also for economic reasons, for reasons of survival, for reasons of hunger, civil wars, climate disasters. the new frontex mandate does contain real substantial improvements, and for this i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr busuttil, in particular, such as the duty to respect human dignity, the right to non-refoulement, non-discrimination, the prohibition of torture, respect for minor refugees and the protection of data; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. and who is to control proportionality and appropriateness? frontex will receive a significant increase in competence as the leading body in border patrols, as the body that produces the risk analyses on the basis of which the deployments and returns of thousands and thousands of migrants will continue to take place. the amendments introduced by parliament do not change the fact that the wolf is a wolf even when he is dressed as a sheep. frontex is not necessary as a border authority - that is what national defence bodies are for - or for the defence of migration, because migration is not prevented, but only moved territorially. the last thing frontex is good at is acting as a human rights watchdog, because people are ultimately classified as legal and illegal people. but there are no illegal people! i don't understand why this can't be accepted. instead of frontex, we need to humanize the refugee situation, for example in africa, where almost a million refugees live in situations of indignity. we are not interested in that, or we are only partial to it; we are more concerned with ourselves. we need a system of asylum based on solidarity, including, of course, in europe, and we need a new neighbourhood policy that is on an equal footing. that too is yet to come.
madam president, much has been said about improvements in the human rights field, and it is true that there have been a number of improvements, such as the human rights officer, the consultative forum, the termination of operations in cases of human rights violations, more reports to the ep, and a few others. then again, the human rights officer will not be independent and the termination of operations will only happen in cases of severe human rights violations. can somebody tell me where one draws the line between acceptable and unacceptable human rights violations? a few more reports to the european parliament – which will not, by the way, be made public – will not give us greater control of frontex. additionally, there are also agreements and cooperation with third countries, with the possibility for frontex to process data. all those things open new windows of opportunity for combating human rights violations. much will depend on how things are implemented and on how the human rights officer will be employed. will it be somebody with lots of knowledge and experience in the field and somebody with a strong will, or somebody who does not want to harm his employer? what rights will she/he have? what rights will the consultative forum have and what rights to information? how detailed will the commission’s reports on monitoring the fate of returnees be? much depends on how all this is done and on the consequences of all this reporting, etc., but you can be sure that we will continue to look very closely at how frontex operates and at what the future developments will be. this new mandate solves nothing, and i would stress that i am deeply disappointed by the council’s complete lack of commitment to human rights, which we witnessed during the negotiations. i really hope that there will be an improvement soon, and that these new small steps towards more human rights protection will be properly and fully implemented.
i have to say, madam president, the new frontex mandate is a contribution to ensuring that the necessary protection of borders respects human rights and that those seeking protection are effectively protected. i would have liked to have done better in some areas, such as the question of independent observers. but no matter how you assess this new mandate, it's still a piece of cake! in all the criticism of frontex, which is also justified, one point is often left out, namely the involvement and responsibility of the member states with which frontex cooperates. we cannot reform these. it would be an important additional step if we finally had, for example, a uniform, improved european asylum system. the new frontex mandate may be a step in the right direction, but critical support remains imperative. the debate on border security and refugee rights will not be over with this new mandate.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i'll make this quick. i know that colleagues are not always happy when the rapporteur is still speaking before the vote. i just wanted to thank all those involved and in this context i hope that this signal can be used soon enough so that there are enough satellites in orbit and the member states have enough money for the future budget and the financial perspective so that the galileo satellite system can really be put into operation. thank you again, and i hope we have a good future ahead of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have agreed to the bütikofer report because i think that it is going in the right direction in terms of content. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i think that's a big shortfall. we see this in almost all policy areas. i would be very grateful if, in the coming months, we as the european parliament would not only really think about how we are going to deal with the whole issue in the light of parliament's legitimate demands to the commission, but above all we should think about the question of monitoring implementation: what do we want the european commission to do and how do we as parliament then check whether the commission is actually implementing our proposals? unfortunately, we have not done so in this report. we should take better account of that in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against paragraph 46 of the report because there are legal inconsistencies, not because of the case, but because i am always in favour of things being legally protected. smes do not usually have boards of directors and they do not have member states as shareholders. that's why you have to be correct here. i am very much in favour of a balanced representation of women on the committees, but these committees must in fact exist. i welcome the report as a whole. the self-employment of women is not a last resort, but is part of the economy, an important economic factor. women do indeed need special support, especially when entering a business, because they have a different approach. they are taking small steps and want to have a clear view of the financing. it is indeed a problem when you go into self-employment to take on social security in its entirety. that is why we also need the possibility of phasing in, so to speak, that one can also gradually enter into one's own social security. this would certainly be a helpful step for women entering the self-employment market.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, and the presidency of the council! energy is the lifeblood of our economies. we therefore want price developments to remain transparent for consumers. unfortunately, there are still too many deals and collusion behind the scenes. the mines end up paying consumers with far too high energy prices. this is not only irritating but has a real impact on growth and employment. we want a better internal energy market in the eu. europe needs transparent energy markets that are protected against abuse. the energy market integrity and transparency regulation is aimed at doing just that, and that is what we are talking about here. i would like to thank the commission and commissioner oettinger in particular for the good cooperation. the european legislation must be made exactly as we have done here. i am particularly pleased that the text which is before us for adoption tomorrow highlights the european dimension of energy trade. the question was essentially: do we need a lex specialis? we have to be very careful about the way we deal with the problems of the environment, and we must be very careful about the way we deal with the problems of the environment. but ultimately energy markets follow different rules. energy dealers are not banks. i am particularly grateful to commissioner oettinger for putting all the levers in motion to ensure that his house is able to submit its report quickly. this was a prerequisite for a sectoral approach. we have had tough negotiations with the hungarian presidency and we have managed to reach a conclusion at first reading. parliament, the members, have introduced seven new elements into the commission's text. the first important point was the introduction of an authorisation system for a register of electricity distributors. this regulation now requires a national register of electricity distributors. it also provides for the establishment of a european register to be drawn up by acer, the agency for the cooperation of regulators. the commission will evaluate the registration system in the future and propose further instruments for improvement. secondly, there is a link with carbon trading. the regulation gives acer access to existing data sets relating to emissions trading. while member states are not obliged to maintain such data sets and acer is not given control rights, the commission is invited to present a legislative proposal to address the shortcomings in the co2 market system. thirdly, there will be penalties, and we have been working towards harmonizing those penalties and minimum standards. the penalties were set in the light of the parliament's insistence that the damage to consumers be taken into account. the commission will also be given the opportunity to submit a proposal on minimum standards for penalties. fourthly, the role of the agency and the national regulatory authorities has been strengthened. parliament wanted to strengthen acer, so we advocated greater independence for the acer director. the acer director should consult national rules but not be bound by them. fifthly, there is a clause on the revision of staff and resources. the european parliament wants acer to be given the financial and human resources it needs to fulfil its new tasks. this is emphasised in a new recital. better equipment is needed to ensure that acer has a strong presence on key organised marketplaces. sixthly, there is of course the prohibition of insider trading, but we have agreed on an exception for insider trading. this exception may only be applied in the case of direct physical loss due to unplanned failures. this derogation may be granted for the security of the system when market participants are otherwise unable to fulfil their contractual obligations or to act in agreement with the relevant transmission system operator. mr president, i would like to continue my speaking time and not have the two minutes at the end. seventh and last point: delegated acts versus implementing acts this was a tough one in the negotiations, a central issue, which is also partly new ground because of the lisbon treaty. parliament partially waived its requests for delegated acts in favour of a stronger role for the agency, acer, and more detailed references in the penalties section. it was a trade-off that we made. important part of the final package: all aspects of data collection will be defined by an implementing act rather than a delegated act. this also concerns the setting of a de minimis threshold for the definition of reporting obligations. however, the commission will reserve the right to make a proposal for such a threshold before a legislative proposal. this is also stated in the text in the context of a declaration. overall, we have achieved a good result. i'm very pleased. the hungarian presidency of the council was a tough one. but with the help of my colleagues from all the other groups, we have succeeded in achieving a really satisfactory outcome. i am very grateful to everyone, especially to my hungarian colleague, mr gyürk, because he had a particularly close relationship with the presidency of the council. but all of them were involved in the trilogue negotiations. we have almost reached unanimity in the committee. i would be glad if we could do that again in plenary. thank you for your cooperation.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i can only thank mr pototschnig, who is the director of the acer agency, and wish him well in his work. it has only started its work in march and it is already showing what both previous speakers and many colleagues have said, that the equipment may not be sufficient. so we're about to get to the point where we're probably going to have to up acer. mr pototschnig and his team wish you all the best for a question that is important to the consumer!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank eva lichtenberger, heidi hautala and judith sargentini very warmly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. without full transparency, without access to this information, democracy cannot work. it must be remembered again and again that it is not our business when negotiations are held in the commission, in the council, but also here. the council does not negotiate its own affairs, but those of the citizens, and it must act accordingly, i.e. everything must be public. the same goes for the rest of the papers. i would like to address a specific point, right now, on what is called the pilot project. it's a bit like the wall in squash. the citizens who have not reached a satisfactory result in the nation state turn to the commission, and the commission throws the ball back into the national state's court. what is missing is a clear follow-up to this case, so that clear decisions by the commission and therefore sanctions can be taken. what we need are comprehensive regulations that have legal consequences.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. to my predecessor: it's interesting how you work! so the german constitution forbids us to be influenced from outside. no one can tell us how to vote. this seems to vary from one member state to another. but again, perhaps it is a question of transparency, which can still be improved. we are thinking a lot about improving transparency in the european union - and particularly with regard to the european institutions - so that citizens can better understand europe and what is going on here, and perhaps actually have a say in the legislative process in good time. we are dealing with the question of what is really the true transparency. how far does this go? do you have to disclose everything that's ever said here, keep a record of everything? i think that then we would not be able to make any real policy, because of course the decisions must be public, the debates must be public, but we all know, as we have been in politics for many years, that there are also sensitive discussions which cannot necessarily be published. or let us look at trilogue negotiations when it comes to technical legislation: if we were to publish the talks from the trilogue, that might block the trilogue because then we would again be influenced from outside, by lobbying for example. a potentially dangerous story! but what is right, and what is a document? do we have to publish all the documents or is it just information? is it only about legislative work or is it also about information from the administrative processes of the institutions of the european union? that's what we're dealing with. but we have found good compromises on the heidi hautala report, which mrs sargentini has kindly accepted, despite all the initial difficulties in reaching agreement. i am very hopeful that we will succeed in this in the future, in the forthcoming report by mr cashman, that we will come together and find the right definitions. what is information? what is a document? and what is right and important to give to the public? because we all know, if we're honest with each other, that flooding the public with information does the exact opposite of transparency, which is that you don't understand anything from the outside because you can't filter out the essentials. in this sense, i thank all those involved for the good compromise that was found and i hope that we will continue to work in this area.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mr meyer for this very important report and the whole committee for its excellent work. in my response i would like, if i may, to focus on three particular issues. firstly, on collaboration with the committee; secondly on the questions of timing which are raised in the report; and thirdly on the profile of the petitions on which you most often need our help and assistance. on the first point, i would like to reassure all the honourable members of the european parliament of our willing and continued collaboration with your work and provision of all the assistance we can offer. as mr meyer’s report points out, you asked us for help with over half of the admissible petitions you received in 2010. that is a pretty impressive number, and i would like to point out that it is almost exactly the same proportion as the year before. i hope that this indicates that we are getting something right and collaborating in a very good spirit. although our help mainly involves initially analysing what eu law, if any, might be applicable in each case, we also attend the – sometimes numerous – follow-up meetings on petitions. i would also like to commend the committee for assisting the commission, as illustrated by the active participation of ms mazzoni and ms auken and the committee secretariat, in the recent stakeholder conference on the implementation of environment law organised by the environment dg. their participation emphasised to member states the importance that the committee attaches to the good implementation of environmental law and legislation. secondly, there is a new – and, we believe, very important – reference in this annual report to timing. of course, we could point to several cases where we have dealt with a petition after quite a long delay and our action has not been as relevant as it would have been if the timing had been better. but we also have more encouraging examples from recent months – for example a petition tabled in may which fell within the context of an ongoing debate on origin labelling, with specific reference to canned fish products following the fukushima disaster. that was well-timed. it is not just in that area that things seem to be going well. i am told that a very promising report by mr iturgaiz on the application of waste legislation is due before the end of this year. i also see from mr meyer’s report that you are already planning ahead for the 2013 european year of citizenship, which is another encouraging sign. the report indicates that you also hope to be looking at some other citizens’ initiatives by then. as you know, the citizens’ initiative regulation will enter into force on 1 april next year. thirdly, and finally, may i refer to something described as a key issue in the report, in other words the question of fundamental rights and the applicability of the charter. the report acknowledges that it is often impossible to invoke the charter in a petitioner’s case because of the specifics of the case, or because the case just happened to fall outside the scope of eu law. it is disappointing all round if petitioners discover that, to borrow the expression of one of your members, they have in effect been ‘knocking at the wrong door’. for this reason, we very warmly welcome the efforts described in the report to ensure an even better user interface for potential petitioners turning to parliament, in addition perhaps to some more ‘upstream’ filtering of cases. i understand that this topic is even going to draw some amendments tomorrow, and getting it right can only help to underpin the image of the european institutions, which is in the common interest of both the commission and parliament. on that note, i would like to close. i am very much looking forward to the discussion.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. the committee on petitions can help to alert citizens of the european union to possible breaches of union law or their own rights. we as members of parliament are thus also learning firsthand the impact of the european union on people's daily lives. the right to petition is thus one of the most important and concrete rights of people in europe. the continuing high number of petitions shows that people know how to use this right. in my speech on the 2009 annual report, i called for improvements to our internal processes. we have succeeded in this, particularly in the area of non-petitions. i would like to thank all those involved, the members and the petitions committee. we will continue to work to ensure that everyone receives a prompt and appropriate response. environmental law is a central theme of many petitions. here, i think, there are two things that need improvement: firstly, we need better communication between the commission and the member states. often the information is incomplete and out of date. the reason for this is usually a reluctant information policy of the member states. the commission is making a good effort in this respect. secondly, with regard to complaints in lengthy environmental procedures, we need instruments to intervene in the planning process and not only at the end of the process or, even worse, when the construction projects are completed. if we find that it was against the law, but the building is still standing, it's very, very difficult to fix things in individual cases. in conclusion, i would like to recall the citizens' initiative adopted this year. this instrument will enable citizens to take an active part in political life in the future. it is essential to me that the committee on petitions, as the only genuine citizens' committee, should have a proper role.
i have to say, madam president, my question is to commissioner andor: mr andor, a few weeks ago i was on a large construction site in france, where i was able to see on the spot with other colleagues from my group how european mobile workers are treated. in this case, workers sent by temporary employment agencies, for example from poland, were exploited in a scandalous way. the working conditions were bad; this year alone, three people have died in work accidents since we visited the construction site. the housing situation was impossible. the workers had their wages deducted from taxes and social security contributions, but they were not entitled to health insurance. it was unclear where the taxes were being diverted. this is one of many examples of how the legal and illegal possibilities are being exploited. my question is: what measures does the commission intend to take to ensure that the posting of workers directive is properly implemented in the member states? what proposals does the commission make to protect workers recruited through longer subcontracting chains from exploitation?
my question to mr andor is this: there has been a huge increase in the number of low-income selfemployed people, with the consequence that this group is at great risk of falling into old age poverty if, because of their low income, they cannot pay into the pension fund or are not covered by the pension systems in the member states. there was a study by the european parliament together with the commission, the so-called perulli study, which also made it clear that these low-paid selfemployed people are above all sham selfemployed and that there was actually a mandate for the commission to develop a clear definition and a clear demarcation and clear principles here in order to prevent sham selfemployment and the risk of old age poverty in the european union. what do you think?
i have to say, madam president, i would like to mention one specific case, the posting directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. what is the commission doing to improve the implementation of the posting of workers directive? and what is needed to improve the posting of workers directive so that these phenomena can be brought to a halt?
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad that, on my initiative, this oral question has found so many supporters here in parliament and that it is being answered so promptly by the commission. i thank you very much for your answer, commissioner. as you know, small and mediumsized enterprises are increasingly facing competition from other countries, including emerging countries outside the european union, as a result of globalisation. this presents great challenges, but also great opportunities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. this applies to imports and also to exports, this applies to foreign direct investment, of course also as foreign subcontractors or when using foreign subcontractors. however, the share of european smes in trade with third countries is still small. 99% of all enterprises in the european union are small and mediumsized enterprises. but only 29% of smes in the eu import products, 50% of them from outside the single market, and only 25% of smes in the eu export products, 50% of them to outside the single market. this means that our small and mediumsized enterprises are not yet fully integrated into the world market. there are still opportunities here, and the question now is how we can help small and mediumsized enterprises to increase their activities outside europe. not many smes are aware of government support programmes such as the enterprise europe network or information sources such as the market access database and the export helpdesk. in addition, there are also corresponding offers at national and regional level. the question arises as to what concrete measures the commission is planning to take to better inform smes about the tools and programmes available. and we would like to know what the commission intends to do to create transparency and clarity for small and mediumsized enterprises in this funding jungle. following the decision of the european court of justice of 10 december 2009, the commission intends to incorporate product-specific list rules into the implementing regulations to the modernised customs code, i.e. to make these rules legally binding. the current, decades-old system of establishing the origin of a product by the last substantial working or processing is to be replaced by a myriad of product-specific rules of origin for imports into the eu. we fear that this will lead to more bureaucracy and will be particularly damaging to small and mediumsized enterprises. we believe that this is not compatible with the small business act for europe! we therefore call for a simplified and sme-friendly application. how will the commission ensure that security-related adaptations and amendments to the modernised customs code do not conflict with the existing simplified procedures and do not lead to competitive disadvantages? that is what it is all about, small and mediumsized enterprises in the world market, so that they can survive and secure jobs here in the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all know that in the face of the current economic crisis, we urgently need new alternatives and growth. we should be aware, at the latest in the debt crisis of many member states, that expensive stimulus packages are not financiable. and if you look at the political results of the last few decades, keynes was certainly not the answer to the problems. so the question is, what can alternatives look like? and the question is, where is the growth that we can participate in? i am grateful to othmar karas for showing very clearly where in the world growth is currently taking place. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that the commission seems to be acting blindly here, that the concerns which parliament has already raised in various debates, which have also been discussed in various committees, are unfortunately still ignored. but i would be very grateful if the commission would finally take our concerns seriously and consider how we might save some things in terms of the rules of origin. so, to return to the question, where does growth take place? as a rule, outside the european union! we find that there are regions in europe where smes are very successful in world markets. and i wonder: are we in a position to learn from these best practice examples within the european union? is it the right answer that we are now setting up european chambers of commerce in some countries of the world? or would it not be a better response if we tried to cooperate better with the chambers of commerce, with the institutions and organizations which have proved that they are able to take their small and mediumsized enterprises to the other markets of the world, and to do everything possible to ensure that our organizations in the different member states are better coordinated and learn from each other here? i would be very grateful if the european commission could take an initiative in this area.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we are in a profound crisis, and this crisis threatens the work of european unification. we must be clear about this! the eurozone leaders agreed on 21 july on measures that we all thought were appropriate to show now that the eurozone cannot be divided, and that there is bold joint action - late, but hopefully not too late - only to see that in many eurozone member countries the same heads of government are fighting for their very survival politically as governments, partly because of the measures they have taken. we are not just dealing with a weak euro. we are dealing above all with a weakness of those who are supposed to manage the euro! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they look like buridan 's donkey to me . he too was sitting between two heaps of hay and could not decide which he wanted to eat. he'll starve to death in the end. we have to be very careful not to let the european parliament get involved in the debate on the future of the community. the middle way, which has always been chosen, half, yes, see, and then the other way round , is destroying the euro! (applause from the centre) and that is why we need a committed community action with community institutions - the economic governance of the european union, which must ensure the coherence of all policies! this means for the whole of euro-zone and non-euro-zone policies. you are right, the euro is open to everyone. and the stability criteria apply not only to the euro countries but also to non-euro countries. the institution responsible for ensuring the coherence of all eu policies is not herman van rompuy, but the commission of the european communities, which is controlled by and linked to the european parliament! (applause from the centre) the institutional debate should be over, and we cannot afford to do so in a situation where the social fabric of europe is seriously threatened. we're for the golden rule, too. we are in favour of budgetary discipline, there is no alternative to that at all! but it has to be fair. at a time when people's salaries are being cut, pensions are being cut, excise taxes are being raised, i read in the newspapers that the bonuses of bankers in all the eurozone member states are back at the level of 2008. it's not fair! and that's why strong shoulders have to do more than weak shoulders. we cannot impose budgetary discipline in europe if people feel that the small people have to pay forever and take the risks and those who have the money can escape their share by, for example, creating money in tax havens that still exist. that's part of the six-pack we're dealing with! (applause from the centre) the appeals of the united states, japan and china, our global economic competitors, the appeals to the european union for more unity, including more budgetary discipline, are not acts of charitable pity on our part by the americans or the chinese. they are an expression of the fear that a collapse of the eurozone will plunge the world economy into an abyss. that is why those who want to bring about state bankruptcies because their party is bankrupt are playing with a fire that we may not be able to put out. i am therefore firmly convinced that if we act together, if we continue along the path of stabilising the euro area that we have embarked on, if the heads of government who have decided to do so are supported in their countries, and also supported by their coalition partners, we will have a chance of stabilising the euro. citizens want politics to be transparent, to be able to see where their fate is being discussed. at european level, the council of heads of state and government is discussing behind closed doors the fate of 500 million people. this parliament is the place to make the debate on this fate public. if we have a business government, this house will be the business parliament. that's the job we're here to do! and i'm not afraid of another war. tell your friend, minister, that europe is strong enough; if the pro-europeans in europe stand together, we have a great chance of coming out of this crisis stronger! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i feel as if i were in a film loop in this parliament and in the debate with the council and the commission on the euro crisis. the question that must be asked here - when we say that the european union is on the brink of collapse at the moment - is why all the fiery appeals from parliament, all the pledges for more europe and not less, have so far not borne fruit. i agree with your analysis to a large extent, mr verhofstadt. i would like to counter on one point: i do not believe that 'the markets' are crying out for regulation, but i believe that the markets are taking advantage of any weakness in our policies to continue speculating against the euro and against individual states. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. (applause from the centre) our six-pack is good and we know that we will say at the end: it is going in the right direction, but it is not enough. at the end of this summer, the polish presidency of the council will be right to say: mr trichet, president of the european central bank, has saved the european union not the euro, but the european union . what this means - and i think it is accurately described - is not at all answered. but how do we get to the point, after a year and a half, two years of debate, of actually sending the signal to the financial markets that no member state is being sacrificed in the european union, that there is this unity that we keep talking about? how do we get to that point? i would now like to address this to you, mr barroso: your speech, your analysis of the turbulence of the past few months, did not give me the impression that you are the man who, with your commission, is leading the way out of intergovernmentalism, out of the club of the rich who are currently governing the eurozone, and towards greater solidarity. i'm sorry, but i have to say this once! i believe that we must also speak critically about ourselves as actors in the european union, just as we do about the member states. the citizens of the european union want the european union. but if we are no longer the ones who can explain what we have agreed, how we are implementing the agreed steps, what has changed in greece, what has been done in germany - if we cannot explain that, mr barroso, then it looks really very sad about what is actually necessary. in my opinion - and this has been said by mentioning the expectations of the chinese, the united states of america and others here - we still represent one of the most successful and best spaces that exists in this world. we have not been able to find a responsible way out of the crisis. martin schulz has my full support for his statement that all this is exacerbated by the fact that injustices are growing, that in the crisis we have only burdened the small people more and the big ones are earning more and more. we have a lot of things on the table. there are enough formulas for economic governance and economic governance. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. no so-called crisis summit has solved the debt crisis and the most unbridled speculation. state aid continues to be distributed to banks, and austerity measures are most disadvantageous to the poorest and middle classes, particularly in the crisis countries, but also in germany. this weakens aggregate demand, weakens the investment capacity and social cohesion in the european union. despite many announcements, no comprehensive financial market regulation has been undertaken. citizens and, quite obviously, markets are beginning to doubt the economic policy competence and capacity of governments and eu institutions. i'm not happy about it, to say the least. i agree with those who propose to revise the eu constitution the treaty of lisbon . my group pointed out before it came into force that it does not meet the current social, democratic and economic needs and challenges. let me give you a quote on the eu budget for 2012 and the medium-term financial planning we are discussing these days: the more cuts are made in this area, the less money is allocated to, for example, cohesion and structural policy, cultural promotion, educational and research exchange programmes. but it is precisely such policies that constitute the eu's added value, that make the eu tangible, that reveal the approaches to a social union. i think that anyone who questions this is putting the very essence of the european union at risk! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to comment on the speeches by the finance minister and the president of the commission. i am totally opposed to this: europe is not on the brink! we have a crisis of institutions, we have a crisis of responsibility, but not a deep crisis of the european institutions as a whole, and there we must also assume responsibility. mr barroso, you spoke of the cacophony of opinions. so your letter of august 3rd didn't help to break it down. and you said it's been too long. we have been waiting here for four and a half years for the proposals of your first commission on financial regulation. i say this very clearly: you have the right of initiative, you have the responsibility, you have the opportunity to make proposals to move governments! i can understand in part the lack of confidence of the heads of state or government in the commission's ability to act. the control of the implementation of european legislation, the control of the allocation of structural funds - what has greece done? the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one. the commission has a unique opportunity, mr president, in your state of the union address in 14 days' time, to make proposals on economic governance, the european monetary fund, the enforcement of the internal market, the control of the implementation of laws, the fight against national monopolies, the amendment of the treaties. and that is the courage we call for! the members of the house will be on your side! (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, mr president of the council! there are two open questions in this discussion. firstly, if we read what the world bank says, if we read what mrs lagarde says at the international monetary fund, then we are on the eve of a recession. the growth machines are down. where's the investment? this is the urgent question for the european union. and i ask you: you refer to the stability and growth package - where are the investments? you wanted to have everything deleted that had to do with investments. so, where's the investment? where can we work together to get europe moving again? we social democrats are joining hands to find a strategy for moving forward. secondly, how do we get into a common bond market? here, too, our support is assured. make your suggestions! help us to convince those who are not yet convinced in the council! we're in, and we're lobbying for majorities in this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to reiterate a point which is at the heart of the debate at the moment: the bond markets are highly tense, bond spreads are rising steadily. we heard today from the commission that it will propose eurobonds in a way that does not require a change in the contract. indeed, article 136 allows for the proposal of instruments within the euro area that lead to more budgetary discipline. and indeed, eurobonds can and should be designed to strengthen the budgetary discipline of all member states and at the same time be a step towards financial solidarity. i therefore call on the commission to submit this proposal quickly. such a proposal can be a relief in the present situation if it is made wisely. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the absence of the german fdp here and the blockade in germany on this point are irresponsible. if your proposal comes, the german one will also.... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, let me first of all thank you on our behalf for a very substantive and responsible debate which reflects the depth of the current crisis and the concerns we have about its consequences for ordinary citizens in europe. what we are seeing is that the real economy, growth and employment are now under extreme pressure from the negative ramifications stemming from the continued market turbulence related to the sovereign debt crisis. therefore, the necessary condition to protect economic growth and job creation – economic recovery – is to contain the turbulence and reinforce our economic governance, to create solid foundations for the continuation of the recovery, sustainable growth and job creation. some of you have criticised the eu’s response to the crisis as too slow and ineffective and then pointed the finger at the commission. frankly, that misses the target for instance, when we talk about eurobonds, already at the critical meeting of 9 and 10 may 2010 we proposed the european financial stability mechanism that would be operated by joint and several guarantees. however, this was rejected by member states in the council because for them they resembled eurobonds too much. moreover, concerning the reform and reinforcement of the european financial stability facility, we proposed that in our annual growth survey on 12 january. president barroso reinforced the message and called for the conclusion of that work by the summit in early february. and where are we now? we are, i trust, finally carrying out this operation, getting the reformed, reinforced and more flexible efsf operational as of october onwards. so, it is the excess of intergovernmentalism and the deficit of the community method that is hampering our actions, and that is the real problem in terms of eu economic governance. let us be honest about this; let us be frank and open about this. therefore, i agree with all those of you who have said that deeper economic integration and policy coordination is one key remedy to the crisis. certainly not the only one – no silver bullet – but a necessary condition for the solution of the crisis. we must be able to decide more quickly and more effectively and we must be much better in the implementation of our decisions in the european union. the current institutional structures are not sufficient to tackle the challenges we are currently facing. as president barroso said, we need un nouveau moment fédérateur and that moment must start today. this calls for a very thorough public debate in our member states and in this context i dare to say that the european parliament is the institution and you, as representatives of our citizens as members of the european parliament, are the representatives who have a major responsibility and a major opportunity to pursue this debate, stimulate this debate and participate in this debate, as you have a very special democratic interface with the european citizens. in the immediate short term let me underline the importance of implementation of the decisions of the eurozone summit. i cannot stress enough the importance of swift implementation of the decisions taken. especially by increasing the flexibility and effectiveness of the efsf and the esm, we can act earlier and more effectively to ensure financial stability in europe. therefore, ratification of the agreed reform of the efsf in the member states is a very clear and urgent priority. moreover, rapid implementation of the decisions is essential for addressing the debt crisis and restoring confidence in our economies and therefore i expect that the euro group meeting this friday in wroclaw will overcome the remaining hurdles and get the job finally done. on greece, let me say a word to those suggesting that greece would be better off outside the europe. i very strongly disagree. neither greece nor the eurozone would be better off. whatever way you look at it, it is absolutely certain that a default and/or exit of greece from the eurozone would carry dramatic economic, social and political costs, not only for greece but also for all other euro area member states and eu member states, as well as for our global partners. (applause) there is an active debate on eu economic governance and there definitely is a need to rethink our institutional structures. there are also currently high expectations of how eurobonds could help solve the debt crisis by pooling the debt issuance of euro area member states. to my mind it is clear that eurobonds, in whatever form they might be introduced, would have to be accompanied by substantially reinforced fiscal surveillance and economic policy coordination as an essential counterpart, so as to avoid moral hazard and to ensure sustainable public finances. of course this would have implications for the fiscal sovereignty of member states, which calls for a substantive debate in the euro area member states to see if they would be ready to accept this. finally, in the very short term, yet another plea and i trust this is the very final plea on this issue. in the very short term, the conclusion of the legislative package on eu economic governance is the crucial step forward in strengthening fiscal surveillance and reinforcing the surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances, and here i look both to the council and to the parliament. we need urgent approval of the six-pack by the end of this month; let us vote on 28 september please. i mean you vote; i witness and i endorse with all my spirit and sympathy. urgent approval of the six-pack is not only important in its own right; it is a necessary foundation for any further progress in economic governance. president barroso will deliver his state of the union speech here in strasbourg at the next plenary session, where he will outline the commission’s proposals on how to further develop the economic governance of the euro area and of the union. so to conclude: what we need now is to implement the decisions to reinforce economic governance and our instruments for ensuring financial stability in order to safeguard financial stability and economic growth and job creation, to consistently continue to improve public finances and undertake reforms that can boost economic growth and job creation, and to conclude the six-pack in order to create the foundations for a real economic union and thus move to the next stage in economic integration towards a deeper economic and political integration. (applause)
acting president of the council. - mr. speaker, the house! first of all, i would like to say that i am fully convinced that this week all the parties - the commission, parliament, council - will show the proper sense of realism and we will reach a compromise on the six-pack of laws that we are working on now. as both president barroso and commissioner rehn have said, this is a concrete action and a task that we must now tackle. i would like to refer briefly to the words of lajos bokros, whom i greatly respect as a former finance minister. it is obvious that the finance ministers must do their job, but they need time to do so, because the economies must also be able to adapt to the measures we have taken. but today, in the short term, we're seeing panic in the stock markets of some countries. the european central bank cannot allow the insolvency of any country, because that would lead to the absolute disaster of the banking system of the entire euro area and the entire european union. we also know that then we would have no monetary policy at all, just monetary chaos. i therefore believe that the action taken by the european central bank was right, appropriate, necessary and courageous. chairman schulz was reassuring me that it would be all right. i must admit that in our part of europe, history, even the worst of it, is perhaps a little more recent than in western europe. for us, the end of history was a great liberation. i appeal to the whole house: let's not let history repeat those words in a bad way! it's clear that we have to save europe. if not us, then who? if not now, when? i'd like to say a few words to mr. farage. he said it felt like he was at a funeral, only he didn't know whose. i'll tell him in english: don't ask for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for you!
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the council's explanations of its position on the draft general budget for the financial year 2012.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. many of my friends in the socialist group, many of the men and women of our international movement know the place well: utøya is not only a place of the norwegian social democrats; the international young socialists have often met there. for many of my friends, this place is also connected with a lot of personal experiences. it was an attack on the youth of the norwegian labour party, but - as my predecessor said - the victims here were the young men and women of the norwegian young socialists. they were the victims of an offender, whose target in this case was the social democrats, but the campaign of extermination that this terrorist was waging there was about a value system. the abomination of the crime, in my opinion, is that he did not want this value system to have a future, and therefore young people in particular should be killed. it's also a symbolic act to kill young men and women so that an idea has no future! the attack was on an idea, and if you read the theses of this man, you quickly realize: no open society, no respect for other cultures, a superiority of whites over other races, so no equality of people regardless of skin color, origin, race and gender this is an attack on our values, this is also an attack on your values. this is not an attack on social democratic values, but an attack on the values of the european community, of european society. if you will, ladies and gentlemen, we are the ones who represent these values in this parliament. that was an attack on us, too. this is an attack on all of us. it is therefore right that the european parliament not only commemorates the victims but also takes cognizance of the fact that our values are under attack from within. you have to fight it! we must defend ourselves against this by not allowing any room for argument: no room for intolerance! no room for racism! there is no room for xenophobia! no place for the persecution of minorities! no scapegoating policy! this is our common task. if we tackle this together, we will put the brakes on these people that need to be put on them. that's no consolation to the many parents, the girlfriends, the siblings who are really suffering. i am grateful to you, mr president, for the sympathy you have shown. the day after the massacre i received many letters addressed to me, but on behalf of the social democracy in norway and the international social democracy. many letters came from this house. i want to pick one that has particularly touched me. and a colleague wrote that he feels this attack on these young men and women is an attack on him personally. that was our colleague mario mauro. i mention this because he is not a social democrat, but he has intuited that whether i am a socialist or a christian, whether i am a believer or not, whether i am a muslim, whether i am black, whether i am a white or an indian, whether i work on the right or the left as a democrat, such people want to destroy us all. and so, if we work together here in the spirit of our common european charter of fundamental rights, as a multinational, multiethnic, multi-religious, multicultural parliament, then that is the best response to this terrorism! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was very pleased to approve the report on better regulation, subsidiarity, proportionality and smart regulation because it puts a key concern of citizens, businesses and ultimately the administrations in the member states back on the agenda. what is the subject of this committee report? the report focuses on the 25% reduction in administrative costs, guarantee and proper implementation. it is an active cooperation between the commission and the member states. it also proposes that the equivalent offsetting of costs, i.e. that if additional administrative costs are incurred by companies through legislation, these should be compensated. a noble cause. i am also very pleased to read that this intelligent regulation remains a task for the european institutions in the member states. a progress report is planned for 2012.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as the leader of the epp group, i have of course agreed to this report, but i have also followed with interest the critical debate in parliament. in essence, two things have been criticized. the first was that the impact of the charter on the work of the committee on petitions was not yet properly recognised in this report. secondly, the question of the right to property or the free availability of property in the european union is not yet fully or sufficiently clarified for citizens of the european union, or the committee's competence is not yet clear. i can only say that we are going to deal with these two issues in the committee on petitions this year. i ask my colleagues to be patient. the next annual report will then also contain some information on these matters.
in writing. - i thank the rapporteur for his important work on the transparency and integrity of wholesale energy markets. i voted for this report and i would like to emphasize at this point how important i think it is that the ljubljana agency should be able to establish close links with the main wholesale energy markets to support it. efficient market surveillance requires reliable and regular and rapid contacts with the main trading markets. i would have liked to have gone further as a parliament and had called for liaison offices in a very specific way, as mr chatzimarkakis had originally considered. for the ljubljana agency, such additional monitoring structures would certainly be useful and helpful and not counterproductive, as some colleagues have apparently feared. but i hope that this possibility will be used in this way too. i am thinking in particular of the four main transnational trading centres: paris, london, amsterdam and leipzig.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the fall of a dictatorship is good news. it is good news that this was done primarily by courageous freedom fighters in the country. i would like to emphasize that this is also a particular achievement of nato and some member states of the european union, which have taken the lead in this matter in every respect. but it also shows that a coordinated eu policy, which was also coordinated by the foreign service, and the sanctions as a whole have contributed to this success. if we act in a coordinated way, we can see that this can be successful. we have to help with the transition now. in the long run, it will not be so much a question of money, because libya will have enough of it. we must help develop democracy, the rule of law, the training of young people, infrastructure measures, multilateral measures which are implemented across borders in the spirit of a genuine southern partnership for the whole of the north african region, for the arab region. but we must also ensure that - and this is a reminder to the commission - the money we give does not go to awarding studies, as was often the case in the past, at 60, 70, 80%, but that it is used to finance projects on the ground, projects that do not have to wait three or four years to be realised, but where something is happening now so that people who have made a revolution for two reasons - freedom and better living conditions - have a future. let me make one final comment on the middle east in anticipation of a later debate: we must be for the two-state solution, which means movement on both sides. the un resolution must open up these possibilities. this means that israel must also move on this issue. but it is also a question of the unity of the european union, which we must not jeopardise. and i have great confidence that the high commissioner, who is in the middle east at this moment, is building a bridge here. you know that my country has a special obligation for historical reasons, that the matter is not so easy for us, but we hope that bridges will be built here, that we as europeans can commit ourselves together in the interests of a better future for the region.
i have to say, madam president, welcome to the club, mr. fule. i think libya is really at a crossroads right now. the next few weeks are crucial. there's good news and bad news that comes to us in turns. on the one hand, we hear that water supply and education are returning to normal, on the other hand, we hear about the role of the islamists. it's alternating, and it's not clear where the journey is going. after months of european division, it is time to finally act together again. now is the time to make a common mark. apart from humanitarian aid i see a few areas i think we should focus on. first, europe should offer expertise in the area of mediation and reconciliation, which is vital in the immediate aftermath of a conflict that has so deeply divided and still divides the country. second, the european union should support the new libyan leadership in bringing all perpetrators of violence to justice while insisting that the rule of law is upheld. third, the eu should offer its support, together with other actors from the region and in flexible ways, in the field of security sector reform and justice sector reform. special attention needs to be paid to the demobilisation and reintegration of all those who served in the armed struggle. there is one more thing, however, that you should not forget, and that is the role of the private sector. i believe that the european companies that now scramble to tap into the country's vast energy reserves have an important responsibility. these companies should adhere to strict transparency rules and declare where their money flows. the commission could play a role here and encourage european companies to commit to a common code of conduct since we do not have binding legal instruments in place yet. finally, i count on you to keep a close eye on the role of women in the new libya.
i have to say, madam president, the situation in libya today gives hope that in the future, power, arbitrariness, the rule of one man will no longer be the determining factor in the life of libya. because new state structures are emerging, and it is extremely important that the eu is committed to ensuring that the structures that are being created are those based on the rule of law, that all citizens are equal before the law and that legal certainty is created. it's extremely important that we focus on that now in this situation. in particular, it would be desirable, of course, for the libyan people to decide to enshrine in the constitution the universal human rights enshrined in the two covenants and to establish the protection of human dignity. it is positive that the eu is working to abolish the death penalty in libya. this is also possible in muslim communities and societies, as we see in turkey, where it has been abolished in times of peace and in times of war. it is also important for libyan society to address the human rights abuses of the past. we have here examples of successful and unsuccessful military dictatorships in latin america, and we should learn from the good examples. the commission's report on human rights crimes also covers the recent past. and we know that in military conflicts, human rights violations are not limited to one side. i therefore ask that the report presented by amnesty international, which documents human rights violations on both sides, be taken seriously. perhaps it is a way of setting up an independent committee, similar to the one in tunisia, to analyse these crimes.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we're in a very delicate situation. everyone saw it coming, and still there's no answer. i understand by reply direct negotiations. the palestinians have a right to a state, and international organizations, not just the world bank, have confirmed that the efforts they have undertaken have been successful. there is no simple no to membership - absolutely not! - and no simple yes either. let me get to the current situation: the general assemblies are likely to adopt a resolution advocating an upgrading of the status similar to that of the vatican. i hope and wish that at least all the european countries can vote in favour of this. it depends, of course, very much on the text, on the substance of the text. the eu is called upon to use its power. but it is clear that this will only work if the 27 speak with one voice. i'm not sure i understand what you're saying about waiting for the text to come. it depends on us what text is produced. it is our task, the task of the 27, our weight. the americans won't be able to do it. they've pulled out. we europeans are called upon to formulate the text in such a way that all 27 can agree and that we have a large majority in favour of it at the united nations. i think that in order for this text to be acceptable to many, it should contain four points. first: a clear statement on supporting israel alongside a palestinian state, its legitimacy and permanence. secondly, parameters that address certain israeli concerns about previous resolutions, such as 181. thirdly, a separate clarification and reiteration by europe of its commitment to israel's security. finally, i think there should be a possible timetable for membership which should be outlined in such a resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the people in the arab world are fighting for freedom and democracy. at its core, it's about dignity. and that's what israel and palestine are about. that is why we are, for israel, in safe borders and for palestine in safe borders, two states working together peacefully. we defend israel's security against all forms of terrorism, but it is also true that israel's security is endangered in the long term if palestine is denied a state. in other words, israel's security will only be guaranteed in the future with a palestinian state on its side. the best way to ensure that the recognition of palestine as a state in the un is the result of negotiations. but there's one condition. according to the israeli ngo peace now, since the end of the settlement moratorium in october 2010, israel has built twice as many houses in the palestinian territories as on israeli territory. that means taking the land from the palestinians, which is the basis for a palestinian state. this is not only illegal, but it is driving israel further into isolation, because israel's policy towards palestine through settlement building is illegitimate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. president abbas and prime minister fayyad are peacemakers, and israel will regret it again if it does not make peace with these peacemakers. let's not hurt the palestinian soul! let us not violate the dignity of the palestinians. that is why we have a safe border for israel and a safe border for palestine. the dignity of the palestinians is the same as that of the israelis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in israel, thousands are demonstrating for social justice and democracy, and showing the connection between their social plight and settlement policies and horrendous military spending. the policy of those in power in israel is directed against the palestinians and also against its own population. the peace process in the region is therefore in the interest of the people there and in the interest of world peace, and that is urgent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all the forces in europe must work for a two-state solution and political decisions must be made. the recognition of palestinian diplomatic missions in all european countries as embassies would improve the international legal status of palestine. all european countries must insist that settlement construction, which is illegal under international law, must be stopped. only the equality of the israeli and palestinian peoples can bring peace and social justice for all and marginalise radical forces.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we support the legitimate demand of the palestinians for their own state, which is recognized by the international community, as well as the right of israel to exist. but one thing is also clear: long-term peace and prosperity for israelis and palestinians will only come from an agreement. therefore, both sides must return to the negotiating table without delay. it's five minutes to midnight! the european union must put pressure on the israeli government to finally honour its promises, which it always makes only vaguely. if we see that the former israeli ambassador to germany, avi primor, clearly said in an interview today: "benjamin netanyahu has been promising a two-state solution for two years, but does nothing about it, and the ultra-right coalition party in his government blocks everything that is there". then we must also say that the ball is now in the hands of the israeli government. it must finally act and not keep comforting the palestinians. it is not helpful to say again now, then we will postpone it again, because then we will still be in the same place in a year. i believe that a status which gives greater value to palestine, as the vatican currently has, is urgently needed in the un. this is an important step, but without negotiations we will not achieve a lasting peace process in the middle east. but a request and a clear statement from the european union are necessary. israel must now take the next step on its own, or it will not achieve peace.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are in agreement as eu member states as long as it remains verbal action; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the palestinians' planned recognition at the un general assembly is one-sided, and israel's daily continuation of its settlement policy is one-sided. we are probably still in agreement on that. but now the exciting part is, do we want to equally discourage both sides from doing these two things? i am afraid not, and my country, germany, is also contributing to this. we must therefore be very careful to avoid any unnecessary interference in the negotiations, and we must not allow the israeli government to continue to ignore the common position of the international community on the settlements. i have come to the conclusion, after years of growing political frustration and deep concern about the viability of israel, that we must also take action in the interests of the people of israel within the framework of our contractual relations with the government there, because its continued policies do not contribute to peace but to further radicalization in the region. we have to start there! i am afraid that the recognition by the general assembly, by such a large majority, is unfortunately not a contribution towards reviving the peace process. so let's start with israel. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
mr president, my actual point is that i want to get the peace process going again. i know that recognition in the assembly will not strengthen this approach in israel. to avoid giving the israelis another reason not to come back to the peace process, i must offer the palestinians something real in substance, which is enforcement of an end to settlement. that is my approach. i do not want the settlement building to continue unimpaired and unpunished. therefore i think the best way forward is to press for a stop to the settlements. i want the palestinians, who want to gain something, to have something of substance, not only on paper.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we are dealing today with the subject of fighting corruption. we have already made it clear on many occasions that we consider this issue to be of enormous importance across the political groups and that the european union must take action to put the fight against corruption back in the focus of internal security and police and judicial cooperation. i think it's important to treat this as a priority. this means that we must not only take the necessary measures to ensure that the existing agreements are implemented efficiently and effectively, but also find the means, including financial means, and take resources into our hands to combat corruption in the european countries. there is still a lot to be done here, and it would be appropriate to refocus our overall priority in the fight against organised crime on areas of crime such as corruption and to focus less on the areas in which we have already invested a great deal of energy in recent years. i think it is important to take up this initiative of the european parliament and to take appropriate action. the most important thing, however, will be to make it clear to the member states that it is also their task to put forward proposals now. we are also counting on you, as commissioner, to put your finger on the problem and tell the member states: we want to see results and we want to see progress in the fight against corruption and in the fight against organised crime in general!
mr president, i would like to thank the commission for its quick reaction, which i hope will be echoed in all the member states. this catastrophe, however, has been on the cards for a very long time; it is not the result of a single unexpected drought. we have waited too long. we could have done many things more quickly. now there is not only a humanitarian disaster to be solved, but we also have to make sure that it does not happen again in a decade or so. linking humanitarian relief and long-term development is crucial for that aim. this crisis will probably continue for a long time and the refugee camps will be around for many years. it will be crucial that all of our commitments – the political commitment as well as the financial commitment – stay around for a long while as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the numbers are truly staggering: tens of thousands have already died! in the coming months, there could be 750,000 more, mainly children. the un has called it the world's greatest humanitarian crisis. you can't repeat that sentence enough. this crisis is not a simple famine, it is man-made. local politics is primarily responsible. what can be done? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is distributed in a safe manner. the only way to find a long-term solution is to end the civil war. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that opportunity now seems to be here. the improving security situation in mogadishu and the current weakening of the militias offer an opportunity for the creation of humanitarian corridors. they are technically possible and politically necessary. it is encouraging that the african union has raised its flag and announced an increase in amisom forces from 9 500 to 12 000. further increases are limited only by the lack of equipment and logistics. the eu could help here too. i hope that the un summit scheduled for 23 september will bring about concrete progress on this issue. i would like to make two points. the european union too is not dealing sufficiently with the issue of migration. in many places we give a rather embarrassing picture. and secondly, i think the role of women in somalia is totally undervalued. they need to have a lot more support.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to begin by thanking the commission for the rapid reaction it has been able to give. europe is well placed in terms of crisis management and response mechanisms as a whole. the crisis in and around somalia is described in one dimension as the famine in the horn of africa or the worst drought in 60 years. to blame only natural causes for this crisis ignores the complex geopolitical underpinnings that make the situation so catastrophic. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat hunger and malnutrition. malnutrition is chronic in many regions of the horn of africa. the recent crop failures have only exacerbated the disaster. the famine in the horn of africa is far from over and experts predict that it could last for many months. the situation will continue to escalate. so it's important that the international donor community gets the funds together. so far, only about 60% of the money pledged has been received. we need to put more emphasis on fighting hunger. the world climate summit in copenhagen was attended by all the heads of government, but unfortunately only two at the world hunger summit in rome!
the commission has already done so. in the light of this humanitarian tragedy, i would like to focus my attention on somalia. i agree with all those who have said that we must look beyond emergency aid to structural developments. it is obvious that mr berman is right. we have no coherent vision in the european union of how we are going to deal with dysfunctional states, how we are going to really help them. and it's obvious that the resilience of these societies is massively weakened by this very weakness of government, by the inability to manage these problems. the lack of peace, the lack of security in east africa is a central reason why this famine is taking such dramatic proportions. i think that's a mistake in the approach that we've taken so far, which is to place too much emphasis on the centrality of a transitional government that doesn't rule anything. that is why we should work with decentralized actors and do everything within the framework of the un process which has now been launched for next year to make it a success.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as impressive as the figures are in terms of our humanitarian aid, so depressing are the images that are reaching us from the horn of africa region. the catastrophe of famine has been foreseen for some time. experts on the ground have complained that their early warnings have not been properly heeded in time. the question is, madam commissioner, how to ensure that such news does not get stuck in the bureaucratic aisle or go unnoticed somewhere, but reaches those who can judge what needs to be done. another problem, it seems to me, is that there is good but fallow land in the region, leased by governments to international consortia, who then export the crops. i wonder if it would not be more sensible if, as part of our development cooperation, we allowed local partners to lease this land so that the food produced there could be consumed in the horn of africa itself. our mission, atalanta, is to protect the ships of the world food programme on their way to mogadishu. when i look at the number of people fleeing somalia to the south because of hunger and al-shabab militias, i wonder if this is an indication that the relay beyond mogadishu is not working at full capacity. let us therefore, on the one hand, strengthen the african union in its efforts to drive al-shabab out once and for all. i would also like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
i do believe that, in the context of our cooperation with the african union and the troops that are being deployed there, we can reach the people better with our aid workers by coordinating our activities well and, for example, also under the protection of amison. but we must also equip our partners in the african union to do the same. that's really the problem. we have heard, for example, during our recent visit to the african union, that there is a shortage of helicopters to actually take out the al-shabab militia. it is also our responsibility to ensure that the necessary resources are made available in this context.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is important in the interests of patients that this summit produces concrete results and that we also support commissioner dalli in this. we must reduce the alcohol abuse, lack of physical activity, poor diet and environmental influences which lead to these diseases, and especially smoking! i therefore join my colleagues in saying that we must continue in this area in europe too. we need the proposal for a directive on tobacco products to be presented quickly; it should not be delayed any further. there was some discussion in the run-up to this resolution. as the epp, we have made it a priority not only to look at the four main noncommunicable diseases. this parliament has always stood up for patients with rare diseases, and that is where cross-border cooperation is particularly necessary. that is why we have included a wording to that effect. we want the risk factors to be targeted. the resolution originally stated that the average alcohol consumption should be reduced by distributing it over the whole population. this could be interpreted to mean that if a person drinks a glass of wine every now and then, he should abstain from drinking, and the average would be lower. but if we don't target the abuse, we've gained nothing. that is why i think the joint resolution is much better at this point. it's about fighting abuse. i thank my colleagues for taking us a step further. we have one more request, and that is that we do not deal with the subject of salt in paragraph 3. we have already had a lot of trouble with this; we should not be trying to get ourselves into trouble at the un level. the principle of subsidiarity should also apply here. we must do more where we need to cooperate across borders, as in the environment. but some things can be tackled in the member states without a totally uniform strategy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is now, thank god, a matter of course that we have a shared responsibility to deal with infectious diseases and epidemics. i welcome the fact that the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases are now the focus of the un meeting. we have a common responsibility here too. the living conditions of the people also play a decisive role here. we know that a healthy and balanced diet in particular helps to maintain health. but we also know that socioeconomic factors have a great influence. the conditions of life of the people must be improved in general. we must create structures in which people can be informed and educated, and in which they can take responsibility for their own lives, freely and independently. prohibitions and guardianship do not lead to the goal. our resolution must also take account of the changed social conditions. for us in europe in particular, this is the demographic change that is associated with a lot of poverty among the elderly, especially women. but it is also the most severe, affecting women particularly and leading to heart disease and stroke. up to 80% of these strokes could be prevented in a simple way by regular examinations and preventive therapies. i ask the commission: how can we ensure uniform treatment in europe and how can we promote the exchange of experience and knowledge? we also need effective health care strategies within europe.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has presented a vision for the european union for the forthcoming itu world radio conference 2012, with a particular focus on accepting and acknowledging that member states are independent members of the itu, but that many issues are of great importance to common european policy. i would like to mention a few examples which are also on the agenda for this conference. there is the item on 'cross-border coordination of spectrum use in the upper digital dividend' or the question of 'harmonising the patchwork of satellite navigation frequency allocations' which is of the utmost importance for our galileo project, or the item on 'introduction of modern emergency call systems for air traffic' which directly concerns sesar, the research project on air traffic management in the single european sky, or the agenda item on 'emissions from short-range devices', such as remote controls for cars, for medical devices, but which have only a low potential for cross-border interference and are already regulated at european level. in short, the radio spectrum allocation negotiated at the conference has a direct impact on many european policy areas. they concern the internal market, but also research, transport and space policy. all this is taking place against the background of the provisions on the regulatory framework for electronic communications services, and the negotiations at the world radiocommunications conference are thus given a european dimension which has not been the case at previous conferences of this kind. the question therefore arises for us in the committee: how will the commission or european policy put the strengthening of the union front in the forthcoming negotiations? and how is it ensured that the union also speaks with one voice in the areas for which it has exclusive competence? the committee believes that the european union must adopt a common position in multilateral negotiations to promote its interests and that the growing role of the european union in the field of spectrum use also requires a stronger formal role for the european union in the itu. this is a matter of dispute among the member states, and that is why we are taking a position here, but it is important because this world radio conference is also setting out the issues for the next conference, which will be a review of the status of the eu. i would like to mention a second aspect which is important to us and which perhaps makes this even clearer. there have been issues in the negotiations on the first european radio frequency programme which are also relevant here at this conference. one of the most important eu-relevant issues on the agenda has implications for the digital agenda in the 800 mhz band. in this context, it is important for us as a committee to recall the position of the european parliament which we expressed in the vote on the hökmark report on 11 march and to ask that it be taken into account. it is not possible that a conference is held and this point of view is not taken into account at all. we decided that by a large majority. the aim was to address a question of great importance to the european economy, namely how to provide sufficient suitable radio frequencies for mobile data traffic in a total bandwidth of at least 1200 mhz in order to further the achievement of the union's policy objectives and to meet the growing demand for mobile data traffic. we want transparent measures, we want no distortions of competition, we want no disadvantage for new players in this field in particular, we want to ensure that those who use the frequencies today in the television and broadcasting sector can continue to play their role. but i think it is important that in times of european crisis, when we are always talking about what is not working and where there are problems, we also recognise the opportunities that can arise for the european economy if we create the conditions for them to be productive and to unlock new potential. this conference offers an opportunity. we are asking for this - and this is the reason for this request - that the european position be given greater weight in this round, both formally and in terms of content, as mr hökmark will certainly explain in a little more detail in a moment. the potential of innovation opportunities in the field of frequencies is a potential for economic growth in europe. and it makes no sense to just talk about growth and then, if there are concrete opportunities to improve the growth prospects, not to take them. that is our concern, and that is why we are here today to put it forward.
i have to say, madam president, i would remind the commission and all of us in europe of the importance of getting back to the forefront of communications technology and of competing with the great powers of the world so that we can proudly use our know-how to promote things like galileo. we have great scientific potential, great potential for know-how in the many places where galileo is being worked on - including my home in nuremberg - and we need the support, especially the financial support, so that this research can continue and our position in the world can be expanded and properly appreciated in the future through these projects. so my request is: let us work together to make these great reflections, that we as europeans have our own system with galileo and thus also our independence in the world, go ahead and that this is duly taken up by all of us at the world communications conference next year! i would urge you to do so.
i have to say, madam president, i must remind you again that i had just left my seat and when i came back the green light was on, even though i was not here and had not pressed the button. yesterday i already suspected that this is the colleague hökmark, who is always voting for me, but maybe a technician can come and look at this. because the little man under the table always gets it wrong.
i have to say, madam president, i think this is the first time in 17 years that i've checked in and my phone hasn't started. i really can't. somehow, it seems like there really is a worm in there. i'd like you to check my equipment, too.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this resolution on noncommunicable diseases. but because of the speed of the preparation, i have been informed that there has been some confusion - not with the epp, our voting list is correct, but i have been informed that there is confusion among some colleagues about paragraph 3. there is a separate vote. we applied for these. the second part calls for un action to reduce salt, sugar and other food ingredients. the epp believes that the un should not dictate to us how much salt is in bread and the like. that is why we are voting against the second part. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. so if you are against un regulation, you have to vote no on the second part.
i have to say, madam president, dictatorships don't have eternal life, and you don't have to wait for a dictator to die. every dictator must fear his sovereign, namely, the people. i want to express my deep respect to the libyan people for the courage of this revolution. what's this about? the first is to build democratic structures. the second is to achieve economic development. thirdly, and this is the main point, we must establish a political climate of mutual respect and tolerance so that a dictatorship is not replaced by a new system of unfreedom and intolerance. for me, this is primarily about freedom of religion. the european union and the commission should also take this into account.
i have to say, madam president, i am very grateful to the authors of the motion for a resolution for allowing us to discuss it and vote on it yesterday, because corruption has many faces. in the end, it's about someone taking money that doesn't belong to them. it does not matter whether the money is stolen from the bank, whether it is given to someone else, or whether it is appropriated by someone else through higher construction costs. everything is criminal and must be prosecuted. it is also a question of the credibility of the european union, because somebody is paying for this money, which is being spent on aid programmes and other things. i therefore think it is extremely important that in this motion for a resolution we should stress that corruption does not stop at the border and that we must also make the fight against corruption in the european union a uniform and consistent pursuit everywhere.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we demand the release of mr belyacki. we call for increased support for the democratic opposition and the free media in belarus and, of course, for a change of system towards democracy and the rule of law. we must not again miss the hour and look away for too long, as happened in north africa, let alone in a dictatorial regime in the middle of europe! that is why it was important that during the last election period - my colleague albert deß gave me a lot of support - we fought for the separation of the southern and eastern partnerships. the european union has been a major player in the development of the region, and the european union has been a major player in the development of the region. we have taken an important step in that direction this week. i am very grateful to the czech presidency for having achieved this separation, which we have always called for, at the prague summit in 2009. the polish presidency will be building on this very competently at the end of this month. this is crucial, but it is blocked as long as belarus is a dictatorship and not a democracy. that is why we need democracy in belarus, so that we can finally include this part of europe fully in our integration work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have just one short question for mr maštálka. i didn't quite understand his speech. was he defending the dictator, mr lukashenko?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to express my full agreement with what mr sonik has just said. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope this was a warning to all concerned. i also hope that this is one of the last times we have to have a debate here about human rights violations in belarus, that the regime will soon come to an end, and that we will soon be able to agree on measures that will help this country to become a democracy and an economically prosperous nation in the main debate on, for example, its neighbourhood policy. i also think it is good - and this is what distinguishes our parliament - that we show individuals and their destinies here. i also call on colleagues who may not have done so to join an initiative to take on political sponsorship for individual political persecuted persons, in order to make these people known and to make it more difficult for the regime to take action against these people in anonymity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have been discussing the situation in south sudan for many years in this parliament. in south sudan, there is a predominantly christian population. what the people of south sudan have suffered for decades is indescribable! arab-muslim cavalry militias - and president al-bashir is partly responsible for this - have basically committed genocide there, bringing death, rape, expulsion and hunger to the country. that is why i regard as irresponsible what turkish president erdogan said some time ago, which is quite pertinent, namely that he cannot recognize genocide in south sudan, unlike the gaza strip. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we, as the european parliament, should support the people of south sudan, and the european union should help this young state so that these people can also move towards a secure future.
i just wanted to ask mr cutaș whether he thinks it wise to declare south sudan a failure now, instead of giving it a chance and supporting it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the european union, human rights and human dignity are very high values which we hold in high esteem. the bad thing is that we have to see over and over again that in many other parts of the world the opposite is the case, and human rights and human dignity are trampled underfoot. isaak dawit, whom we are talking about today, not for the first time, but whom we have spoken about many times before, for whom many people are committed, who also received the sakharov prize, has basically nothing of the sort. he doesn't care that he's an eu citizen. he doesn't care that we're taking care of him. that's what makes us so helpless, powerless, and sometimes angry. there were many suggestions made about what we could do - particularly since he is an eu citizen - to help him. i would like to see one of these proposals actually be viable and helpful. because he's just a symbol for a lot of other people who are in the same situation. it is one thing to give him the sakharov prize, but it has not helped him at all. we must keep these people in our thoughts and try to do what we can in all the countries of the world where people are imprisoned, tortured and mistreated because of their opinions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank mrs matias for her report. i would also like to thank the previous rapporteurs, mrs merkies and mrs carvalho. this is a consequence, and the day is now approaching when we must not only make political decisions here, but also prove that we are serious by pointing out that research and innovation is the crucial issue for the future viability of the european union. i am therefore very grateful that the representative of the committee on budgets has also pointed out that adequate financial resources in this area are an important issue. we will have to settle this dispute shortly, whether we have the power to provide the necessary funds to make this area of research and innovation really central. it is central to the question of whether and how europe will develop in the future. it is not enough to make small and big speeches on sundays, but facts must be given. secondly, we cannot avoid - and this is very well stated in the report - looking closely at whether we cannot use the resources we have more effectively. how can we simplify the procedure? how do we get speed? how can we make research funding more effective? how can we get from the still somewhat confusing labyrinth of different research funding to a stronger structure, a stronger simplification? sometimes less is more! a few projects but a lot of money invested have a higher impact in the end. i am therefore grateful that we have taken another step forward in this report. the european research council and the european institute of innovation and technology will of course play a special role, and of course the small and mediumsized enterprises sector is an important one. but, last but not least, we must also have a solution for those countries which are not yet ready to promote excellence - which must remain the only principle that is truly binding and will remain so in the future. the report also raises the idea of a possible competition, which might help to promote new centres of excellence in neighbouring regions. this is an important task that has yet to be solved.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i welcome this agreement, which will now effectively equate palestinian agricultural products with those of other recognized mediterranean countries. i expressly agree with the rapporteur - and i thank her for her work - when she says that this agreement can to some extent support and strengthen the palestinian economy, which is in a critical situation these days, despite the still open aspects of this agreement, to which my colleagues have referred. how can a lasting and sustainable peace solution with israel be possible if there is no self-sustaining economic development in the future state of palestine, which is also the basis for further democratization and social integration of palestine in the whole region and must be - i would like to emphasize this - for the constructive, positive handling of such complex problems as demographic aspects, job creation, aspects of water supply, housing, etc.? i also see this as an important sign in view of the current debate in the united nations on the long overdue recognition of the state of palestine. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. it is also our responsibility to take concrete action in the autumn for the arab spring. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. but i would also like to express my surprise at the epp group here in the house, particularly in the context of the important decision on world politics. it is threatening to reject the agreement until just before the vote in committee. as a reward for its agreement in the commerce committee, it was forced to remove from the explanatory statement of parliament's opinion the reference to the complicity of israeli settlement building and blockade in palestinian poverty and unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this also concerns the question of the deletion of the passage on the circumvention of the rules of origin by israeli producers. we are not solving the problem by prohibiting the use of the word "problem".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the agreement is undoubtedly about taking a step forward together to improve the living conditions of the people in the palestinian territories. and here, as in many other examples, trade can also make a contribution. but we should not overestimate trade here either. i hope that this agreement will improve the situation, but not automatically. because all the questions behind it are: who is really doing the trading? what companies are behind this? who's gonna keep the money? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are all questions that we cannot answer here. but what is important to me, and several speakers have already mentioned it, is that we have to be able to do this. i am annoyed by the way in which some of my colleagues on the left here in the house regularly make distinctions, by the way in which they try to blame one side for the awkward and certainly unbearable situation between israel and the palestinians. all the decades we have had to follow this conflict have made it clear that the blame is certainly not monocausal on one side, that you cannot simply say: some are the good guys and the others are the bad guys, who have to make all sorts of concessions. that will not do. that is why, mr schulz, when you say that the epp has also put a number of conditions in the committee, we have done so quite deliberately - and we have repeatedly raised this in the committee - not because we want to call this agreement into question. quite the opposite. but the point is that if in the explanatory statement for such a resolution things were simply made extremely simple - it was simply made in the explanatory statement as if the situation was only the fault of the israelis - there must be some way of changing this. i am very grateful to the rapporteur for the good work we have done together. the same applies here: our preferences are clearly directed towards the palestinians, including in the areas where hamas rules. i think that the other side is also called upon, when it comes to israel and the agreement, to make some progress here.
member of the commission. - i would like to convey the european commission's reply to this question, on behalf of my colleague, commissioner karel de gucht. i would first like to thank the european parliament for asking us this question and giving us the opportunity to discuss our trade relations with taiwan. to put these relations in context, it is worth noting that taiwan is our 15th trading partner, with a trade balance in its favour, while the european union is the main foreign investor in taiwan. we do indeed wish to strengthen and develop these relations. as you know, the commission's communication of 10 november 2010 on trade, growth and external affairs, which sets out the commission's vision for the future of our trade policy, stresses the need to strengthen our relations, in particular with strategic partners such as the united states, russia, japan and others in the same category. the communication also recognises the importance of emerging economies, particularly in asia. taiwan is not mentioned as a specific priority, but communication already provides us with a useful framework for relations with these economies. although we do not have a formal agreement with taiwan, we have a well-functioning trade dialogue which also allows us to discuss the future of our relations. as far as taiwan's trade relations with the world in general are concerned, the most recent development is the negotiation of a framework agreement on economic cooperation with china, which we regard as a positive and important step forward. indeed, a good relationship between china and taiwan is of paramount importance both in practical terms and in the context of our one china policy. this agreement is not a free trade agreement as such but rather a framework agreement which will be supplemented in certain areas. i think it is too early to say what opportunity this framework agreement will create for european industry, but we must ensure that the intensification of trade relations between taiwan and china will create new opportunities for our businesses in the region, rather than acting as a barrier. anyway, we're following this development very closely. on the question of a free trade agreement between the european union and taiwan, it is important to take into account the unique situation of taiwan, and in particular its relationship with china. one of the arguments put forward by taiwan is that such an agreement will open up new opportunities for european companies, not only in taiwan but also in china. the impressive volume of taiwanese investment in china shows the importance of taiwan-china relations, while the european union is also a major investor in china. so we have to look at the strengthening of taiwan-china ties as a positive element in the broader context of our economic ties with the region as a whole, including china. from this point of view, it is important to avoid a false start which could jeopardize the development of good relations between china and taiwan or which could also jeopardize our own relations with china and taiwan. the commission believes at this stage that it is not appropriate to start a negotiation process for a free trade agreement with taiwan for the reasons i have mentioned above. as for other negotiations, there are indeed some areas which could be examined to see if they could be constructive elements for developing and strengthening our relationship. and this process of analyzing this area is ongoing. we will have consultations in taipei on 25 october, which we are prepared to report to the inta committee, and we will see what action to take on the information we may obtain from these discussions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not it is the first time in many years that we have spoken in the european parliament about trade relations between europe and taiwan. at least since i was elected in 2004, i can't remember any such debate. this shows how important it is that we finally address this issue here, given the great importance of taiwan to trade relations and to the economy in europe. the key question is: what can the european union do to improve trade relations and to boost a mutual investment climate? we have asked the commission specific questions. i can certainly understand that commissioner cioloş cannot go into detail on all the questions, but he has at least read the text of mr de gucht's speech. i have to say, i'm a little disappointed. we are asking concrete questions, and we are getting concrete answers to concrete questions, namely: free trade agreements - no foreseeable future. but otherwise we get the answer: the weather is fine here in strasbourg, perhaps in brussels, in taiwan anyway, but i have not heard a real concept of how trade relations between the european union and taiwan can be improved. i would be very grateful if the commission could comment on this, because our group held a hearing on this very subject a few weeks ago, and i had the impression that the commission had made a great many concrete proposals, so that there are very good starting points, even without a free trade agreement, to improve economic relations and the investment climate. i would be very grateful if the commission would take up some of the suggestions made there. i would therefore like to express my gratitude to mr andrikienė, mr šťastný and mr kazak, who have helped to initiate and participate in this hearing. i would be very grateful if the commission would not bury the issue of trade relations with taiwan in a drawer somewhere, but if we could hear a little more about initiatives in this area in the next few years.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to reply directly to mrs stassen, who has been the only one to say that we do not really need european tourism. i think we need him. it will not undermine the competitiveness and autonomy of the individual member states. the fact is that europe is the number one destination in the world at the moment, and we want to remain so. we want to keep it with all the diversity we have. the diversity of europe is evident from the speeches we have heard so far. they alone have made it worthwhile to be in this debate. because if someone thinks that europe in 10 days is enough - so acropolis, tower, eiffel tower and maybe neuschwanstein in germany - then they are wrong. europe has much more to offer and has already developed much more in tourism. i would like to point out something in particular - i come from northern germany - which is with us. we have cycling tourism, we have nature tourism, not just farm holidays, which really do inspire an understanding of nature, but also tourism in very sensitive areas such as the wadden sea in the north sea. this is a unique zone in the world. it is really a great opportunity to see how, alongside the main shipping routes, we can develop a very sensitive tourism that also raises awareness of the diversity of nature. we need more of this. what has not been mentioned or has been mentioned only a little: we also have, for example, old mines, old industrial sites, which you can visit and where you can learn a lot about the history of europe, about the world of work. so there is a very broad spectrum, and we should be thinking about how we can take this out and how we can keep europe as a very attractive destination in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. tourism, we know, can also destroy tourism. that is why we must also link economy and ecology in tourism. we know that bicycle tourism has been growing at more than 20 percent a year for the last two decades, and that, above all, cyclists spend more money than car tourists, which is particularly good for the local economy. i would like to ask you to include the iron curtain trail in these routes, because the culture of the division of europe can be wonderfully represented on this 9 000 km long cycle route from the barents sea to the black sea through 20 countries. but we also have to take care of the money. we've analyzed that 60 percent of transportation spending goes to roads, only 20 percent to rail, and 0.7 percent to bicycle infrastructure. we need them, of course, we can encourage them, and that is why we say: we want at least 15 per cent of the budget for cycling and for hiking. we can then also provide the basis for eco-tourism, which serves both the economy and the ecology.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 27 september 2011, at 12.30. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the one-minute explanations under rule 150 of the rules of procedure.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the light of the current exceptional situation resulting from the financial, economic and budgetary crisis, decisions at european level should focus on urgent and essential issues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. my report is about the strategy to prevent endless human suffering, resulting in some 35 000 deaths and over 1.5 million often serious injuries from road traffic accidents every year, and to avoid the associated economic damage of 130 billion euros per year. the number of deaths alone is equivalent to the number of people who would die in the crash of 250 fully-fledged medium-sized commercial airliners. what wouldn't we do to prevent that? the cost of accidents exceeds the total annual budget of the european union by a considerable margin. i am therefore convinced that we should be able to do something in this area in the long term. the report, which has been produced for the first time, is a result of the constructive cooperation of all the shadow rapporteurs and many colleagues, and it has been a success in developing a uniform, holistic and coherent approach to improving road safety. it takes into account the content of the un charter for road safety 2010-2020 as well as the content and objectives of road safety work by eu member states and broad civil society. first, it sets ambitious but realistic targets for the period up to 2020 and, with vision zero, for the period beyond. the aim is to reduce by 2020 the number of accident deaths by 50%, the number of children killed by up to 60% and the number of seriously injured by 40%. this is in the best interests of each of our people, but also of our economy. we recommend that member states reduce objectives and methods to their own territory and expect them to have their own road safety action programmes. secondly, the report includes who is responsible for the individual activities and measures. this is by no means just the european union. in the spirit of subsidiarity, the holistic approach means that member states, regional or local authorities, and even each individual transport operator, must also assume responsibility in the sense of their duty to cooperate. and thirdly, it includes how - that is, with what instruments, activities and measures - the objectives are to be achieved. legislative proposals at european level are only one strategy. we cannot and will not do without guidelines, recommendations and orders. subsidiarity has been given special attention, meaning that responsibilities and powers have been clearly defined, even where they are shared. we appreciate the commission's wide-ranging activities. but since they come from the most diverse directorates-general, such as transport, economy, consumer protection, environment, communications, research and development, internal market and others, they are not always coherent, often uncoordinated, and sometimes contradictory. we therefore propose the creation of a road safety coordinator within the european commission. this avoids the need for a road safety agency in the long term, but it greatly increases the efficiency of the european commission. both the selection of measures and their evaluation require a scientifically sound approach based on comparable high-quality data, definitions and statistics. we therefore call, among other things, for a harmonised analysis of the causes of injuries and accidents and for the eu-wide exchange of data, while maintaining a high level of personal data protection. six main fields of action have been identified. they concern people as road users, road rules, vehicles, infrastructure, their intelligent interconnection and the special consideration of the weaker road users. i'll ask for your approval tomorrow.
in writing. the road safety measures called for in the report are concrete and ambitious. this is the only way to reduce the number of accidents on europe's roads in the future. by calling for a strict alcohol ban for new and professional drivers and calling for a 'vision zero', parliament can send clear signals that road safety is a top priority in policy and that road accidents are simply not morally acceptable. if the commission and the council support the measures we are proposing, we can finally tackle such ambitious objectives.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, first i would like to thank mr deva for his report, for raising awareness on this very important issue and also for reminding us of the magnitude of the problem, which for a long time was not seen as so severe and was not so high on the international agenda. i would also like to thank him for the opportunity this gives me, on behalf of the commission, to address this issue. i would like to underline that the commission agrees that dam infrastructure reinforcement has a multi-sectoral dimension which needs to be tackled in a comprehensive and holistic manner, ranging from watershed management to mitigation and adaptation measures, as well as capacity building and political dialogue between bordering states. this is, of course, always very important. this resolution is timely as it properly focuses on all the issues related to dam building and their reinforcement, as well as on the necessary investment and technological adaptation to improve sustainability and minimise social, political and environmental side effects. at global level, the eu is already fully engaged in fighting climate change and its effects. by its commitments in copenhagen and cancun, the commission is thus fully engaged in supporting developing countries in implementing adaptation and mitigation measures, as included in the national development strategies and plans. in particular, at local level, the eu also promotes projects of sustainable development with small-scale operations more adapted to the local environment. moreover, the report rightly highlights that glacier melting is increasing worldwide and is particularly intense – as was rightly pointed out in the report – in the himalaya mountain range. the resulting increase in water flow has important impacts on downstream areas in some of the world’s most important river basins and densely populated agricultural areas, in particular in asia, where 16 000 glaciers exist. therefore, the commission welcomes the report and acknowledges that glacier melting in the himalaya and the related glacier lake outburst floods are a growing problem which demands specific attention. addressing this problem and other climate change-related issues will require a cross-border approach involving expertise in disaster risk reduction, watershed management, rural development and climate change adaptation. in this regard, the eu is already teaming up with the regional institutions with expertise in this field, such as the icimod, a nepal-based institute referred to in the ep report, as well as with the governments of the affected regions, in order to discuss possible actions and cooperation. for instance, overall support for the asian region in the fight against climate change, including water basin management, is being provided as part of the commission’s fast-starting financing through the global climate change alliance in nepal and the new programme which will start in bhutan in 2012. i would like to thank the rapporteur.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. in a call for action on hunger in the horn of africa, initiated by african and european writers, it is said that those who suffer need not be pitied, but that their rights as citizens of the world be realised. they have rights like everyone else, including the right to food under article 25 of the universal declaration of human rights. in the horn of africa, 12.5 million people are currently denied the right to life and food security. in somalia alone, over 30,000 children under the age of five have died in the last few months. and the current number of hungry people worldwide, according to fao estimates, is already over one billion. in drawing up the report before us today, the members of the committee on development were guided by two premises: firstly, whether the european union is taking sufficient responsibility to ensure that the world's hungry have direct access to food - this can also be extended to clean drinking water and energy supply. secondly, how does the european union ensure the necessary coherence of its policies to achieve the development objectives on the basis of the lisbon treaty, articles 7 and 208? the commission's two communications last year on the eu policy framework for developing countries and on humanitarian aid in the food sector show that the commission has set out a number of premises which we as a committee support, but we believe that the guidelines are still insufficient in many areas. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: famine disasters rarely happen overnight. there are many causes. it is pointless to list them all here. this is also very clear from our report. it is clear that climate change, speculation in the stock markets, price volatility, land grabbing, unfair trade policies are first and foremost affecting the poorest of the poor, the refugees, the poor people, the old people, the defenseless women and children. in our report we focused on three main areas: on the one hand, we support - and want to build on this - the need to find a human rights-based approach as a general framework for food security. the enforcement of the human right to food must be put at the top of the political agenda, and we need oversight mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the right to food. sustainable smallholder agriculture with low external inputs offers a solution to the fight against hunger, malnutrition and poverty. this requires a massive increase in investment in agriculture. the same applies to concrete measures to ensure world food security, such as the fight against speculation and the uncontrolled purchase of land. the uncontrolled acquisition of land is much larger than previously thought. the latest figures we have, for example, in relation to uganda, speak of over 22 000 expulsions of people who have been driven from their land because the land was bought up by british timber companies. the third important point is that we need the policy coherence we require so that we do not end up with development policy, with money flowing into development policy, and then agricultural policy and trade policy destroying that. we've got a lot of work to do here. i ask for support for the report in the vote tomorrow.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report. i believe that agriculture is one of the main policy areas that concerns policy coherence for development and, indeed, where that coherence is usually contradicted. indeed, we are not feeding the world at the moment, owing to the way that our agricultural policy is designed, and we should not. food production should happen mostly at local level. we should not try to compete on the global market via our european agricultural policy. we should not focus on competition – quite the opposite: we should enable developing countries to feed themselves. what are we doing at the moment, though? our meat production is 72%-dependent on soya imports – that is around 20 million hectares worth. overall we export some 40 million hectares worth of our production, but we also import 49 million hectares worth. we are not feeding the world; we are starving it. our external efforts need to be complemented by internal reforms.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this evening, late at night, we are discussing a subject of great importance to us. after all, 37% of the eu budget is spent on cohesion policy. now let's look back - at the middle of the period, today, in 2011 - at how much money has actually been disbursed from the structural and cohesion funds. we note that, unfortunately, in some member states the absorption rate, the absorption capacity, is far below what should actually have been spent at that time. we have new member states, such as bulgaria and romania, which are poor absorbers, but it is not just the new member states, there are also member states which have been doing this for a long time, with regions such as calabria and sicily in the founder state of italy, which are 7%, if you believe the budget controllers in the budget control committee, far behind, where you ask yourself: why can't these regions spend the funds we put at their disposal? or greece. we have been pointing fingers here in parliament for months, pointing out that a country like greece does not call on these funds, and we are pleased that the commission, which did not give this issue the necessary importance in the beginning, is now giving it high priority. president barroso has just pointed out to greece that 15 billion out of 20 billion has not been spent, and commissioner hahn was also on the spot. they have been thinking about what they can do to help these regions. the first thing that comes up is the question of co-financing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. okay, we need help here, no question. but co-financing is clearly not the only way. there are regions in greece which do not want an increase in the european union's grant, which are satisfied with the current rate of 80% and would rather do more projects. so it's not just the co-financing, but there are many reasons. the procedures are too complicated. the procedures must be simplified urgently. there is also the problem that in some member states the central administrations of governments in the capitals take too long and the regions and local authorities do not have enough decision-making power to use the funds. examples from romania show that it takes 20 to 30 days for the local authorities to process the applications, about 60 days for the regional authorities and 260 days for the central government. so all the arguments for delegating responsibility from the top down and introducing strong local self-government. where is the council, the presidency of the council, herman van rompuy, tonight? he has spoken on other matters. this is 37% of the eu budget! the eu has set aside 250 billion in payment commitments. how can they be fulfilled? the polish presidency could have made a breakthrough here, because poland has shown how to increase absorption rates. there are also examples of good governance. poland has done it - here the reception capacity has been increased - but so has estonia. we in parliament believe that the member states must now urgently ensure that the funds we have made available to citizens in the regions are actually spent, also in the interests of increasing competitiveness and stabilising employment. we expect the commission to continue along this path and to urge the member states to achieve a positive result on this important issue.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we also welcome your communication on improving disaster prevention in the european union. the citizens of europe expect us to respond quickly and efficiently to disasters and above all to help each other. in the past, when the forests of southern europe were burning, we sometimes sat helplessly in front of the television set and asked ourselves: why are the others not helping? the commission's communication is now the next step towards european solidarity, towards making the capacities we have in europe more efficient. and we have everything we need. we have all the facilities in europe to deal with disasters. in that sense, this is a good step forward. it has already been said that national capacities should not be replaced by centralisation at eu level, but we need synergy. we really need everyone to act quickly together. that is also urgently needed now. i also agree that we need to think more and more preemptively. we must use the information we have properly and not wait for disaster to strike. there's a lot you can do in case of floods, in case of droughts, in case of fires. i am pleased that we are now organising civil protection from a single source, both within and outside the eu. i agree with mr seeber that responsibilities should be clear. you are responsible. they should do this and not allow a mix of responsibilities where you do not know who is responsible afterwards.finally, i believe that this 24/7 readiness must always be present, also at christmas, also at new year, also at holidays, also in summer. this is very important. i thank mrs gardini for the good report.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs gardini, for a very short and clear report which also brings our tasks together. if you read the report and see that there are 16 references to legal bases that show our work so far in the field of disaster prevention and humanitarian aid, you would have to assume that it is enough. the latest results in disaster management have shown that we have responded well. but we also have a new situation in europe. we have more environmental disasters, we have terrorist attacks that require a quick response, and i think it is therefore right that the commission will be presenting a legislative proposal here. but we must remember, as has been said many times, that the member states must be the focus. but if we are to establish a disaster prevention unit, then, commissioner, it can only be created from the substance of the member states. but the important thing about coordination is that you know where the units are, what they can do, and then you coordinate them. the commission is very well organised, so we have to start here. the financial resources have been increased, but i think that it is much more important to increase efficiency. it is necessary, and that is why we can do without financial resources. a few thoughts on the disaster fund: here again, it was called for to be extended. i'm against it. then we have so many variations and possibilities where the disaster fund is used. we should leave him as he is. it is designed to mitigate unforeseen disasters and should remain so.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12.30 today. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr daniel caspary, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on a new trade policy for europe in the context of the europe 2020 strategy [2010/2152 (ini) ] (a7-0255/2011).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the world economy has changed a lot in the last ten or fifteen years. in addition to the traditional economic powers such as the european union and the united states, high-growth regions such as asia with china and india and south america are increasingly emerging from the economic shadow. this must also have an impact on our policy and strategy. however, i do not necessarily feel that the commission's new trade strategy provides adequate responses to these changes. the challenges facing the european union in the field of external trade can be illustrated very well in a few figures. by 2015, 90% of global growth will be generated outside the union, with 50% of world trade accounting for 80% of world trade, including the eu27 member states. however, the european union's share of world gdp is declining, in contrast to the rapid growth of economic output in the emerging economies. in 2000, when the lisbon strategy was launched, the european union still generated 25% of the world's gdp. by 2020, that will fall to just 18 percent of global gdp. and while the two largest developed economies, europe and the us, accounted for 48% of global gdp in 2000, by 2020 they will account for only one third. this is a relative decline of 27%. china and india will account for about a quarter of global economic output by 2020. that's an increase, relative, of 150%. it should be borne in mind that the european union's economy is highly dependent on participation in external growth. already today, 18% of the european union's workforce, or almost 40 million jobs, depend on the union's trading results. the comparison of openness to world trade and employment over the past decade in almost all countries of the world shows that openness to trade is associated with more employment and job creation. so we have to take advantage of these opportunities. the commission is asked to present a revised medium and long-term trade strategy by the summer of 2013. this should be possible on the basis of a thorough analysis of current trends in world trade and a forecast of developments inside and outside the european union over the next 10 to 15 years. i would be very pleased if you could give us that assurance today, commissioner de gucht. i think we need to respond better to the changes of the last decade with a genuine forward-looking strategy. i would also like to refer briefly to paragraph 11 on the substance of the matter. because many people still associate trade or globalisation with bad news, such as job relocation, environmental and social dumping. yes, there is, and it is our task to act together against it. but we all experience the good side of trade every day. cheap products in our shops, export opportunities and new jobs in machinery, car manufacturing and service industries. the positive contribution of trade policy to poverty reduction is also often overlooked in public debate. i would like to see a balanced information campaign by the commission on the advantages and disadvantages of foreign trade, and i would be very, very grateful if we could maintain this demand in the report. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this report, the many colleagues who have spoken in committee and who have tabled more than 200 amendments. i thank the administration of the parliament and the many external interlocutors from all different fields who have all supported us with their backgrounds and their convictions and have given both positive and negative comments. it is now up to the commission to take up and implement our proposals. we will keep a very close eye on this, mr de gucht.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank members for this opportunity to comment on the excellent report prepared by daniel caspary. i appreciate the frank and comprehensive analysis it makes of our communication on trade policy. first of all, i would like to address one unwarranted criticism that this report raises, which is its lack of long-term vision. parliament will also have seen the two detailed staff working documents which accompany our communication. one contains rigorous economic analysis as well as available long-term forecasts. the other presents an assessment of the global europe strategy adopted by the commission in 2006. one of the key priorities of our new trade strategy is to ensure stronger and sustainable growth in europe by engaging with other strategic growth poles in the world: china, russia, japan, etc. i am sure that members will agree with me that this is a legitimate long-term objective and not just a misguided short-term vision. we also strive to uphold the value of multilateralism and project our european values in the rest of the world, in an ever-increasing complex world where global governance and strong leadership seem to be in short supply. unless you believe that multilateralism and our strong engagement with strategic partners will not be objectives worth pursuing by 2030 or beyond, then i find it hard to accept the report’s criticism of lack of long-term vision. i would also like to stress that the objectives and priorities set in the communication will produce economic effects in the next five to ten years. today, 36 million jobs in the eu depend on our external trade. these jobs are important today and they will be as important in decades to come. if we are successful in our strategy, and not least if parliament lends its support, our new trade policy can generate eur 150 billion every year, and more jobs at the same time. these gains are long-term gains, which can only be reaped if we set a strong foundation for our policy today. secondly, i notice that we both share the aim of higher growth and consider that we should harness all the growth potential of external trade. the growth potential of the various trade initiatives that we are considering or pursuing is therefore a major factor allowing us to set priorities among the many negotiations which the commission can engage in. thirdly, the report considers that we are not ambitious enough and that our trade negotiations are too slow. let us talk again when i return to this house to present concluded free trade agreements in the months and years to come. of course, while it is important to be ambitious, it is equally important to understand that european trade policy does not solve all global issues and that global agreements are based on mutual obligations and commitments. imposing obligations on our partners is only feasible if we ourselves are willing to make commitments which they consider equivalent. otherwise, no deal is possible. that is why i am pleased to see that we agree on many of the priorities for the eu’s trade policy: multilateralism remains our top trade priority. the eu has a deep commercial and systemic interest in a strong multilateral trading system, and the commission has played a proactive role in the doha negotiations throughout 2011, including by developing a solid compromise proposal in the key area of tariffs on industrial goods. we also consistently called for deliverables for least developed countries and we have an established, excellent track record already. in the coming period, ahead of the december ministerial conference, the commission will continue its work in geneva with the objective of finding a roadmap that can take the doha negotiations out of the present impasse. the report also states the importance of ensuring that trade works for poverty reduction. this is an issue that is also important for me and is why the commission will submit to college a communication on trade, investment and development, by the end of november. another area of importance mentioned several times in the report is ensuring that we are open but not naive, which i fully agree with. one initiative the commission is working on is a legislative proposal for an eu instrument that will help secure and increase symmetry in access to public procurement markets in developed countries and large emerging markets. procurement markets represent a substantial part of national economies, but european businesses cannot always get equal or easy access. the commission has just ended the public consultation, is reviewing different options and will put forward a proposal within the coming months. i note that the report acknowledges the achievements of the market access strategy and the importance to continue to work towards keeping markets open. the commission produced a trade and investment barriers report for the spring european council this year, which was shared with the parliament as well. the report monitors barriers and protectionist measures and sets out a number of key priorities for market access action vis-à-vis our strategic partners, and should become the public reference document and benchmark for our enforcement action at political level. i welcome parliament’s decision to also prepare a report on this matter. we are actively pursuing our market access work, in particular in relation to intellectual property rights in third countries, access to key raw materials for eu industry and securing reliable energy supplies. we will also continue to enforce eu rights and defend the interests of eu businesses of all sizes – anti-dumping or anti-subsidy cases, bilateral discussions on market access barriers, negotiating trade deals and bringing cases before wto. one example is how we have actively and consistently – and so far successfully – addressed issues relating to access to raw materials in china through the wto’s dispute settlement system. in keeping with our enlightened openness, we have no qualms about using all instruments to ensure that all countries and companies comply with wto rules. finally, i welcome a reference to the european globalisation adjustment fund in the report. the commission is currently finalising a proposal to improve the fund and to extend it to the agricultural sector. this is scheduled for adoption on 5 october 2011. i see much agreement between this report and the commission’s own communication on trade policy and look forward to discussing it with parliament. on the last question from mr caspary as to where i am going, i have only one answer: i am going forward.
the committee's opinion was drawn up in the light of the work done by the advisory committee on development. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to begin by thanking mr caspary very warmly for this report. mr de gucht, commissioner for trade, you said in march 2010 that 'in the long term, trade should help to improve the lives of all people on this planet'. the commission's communication, unfortunately, did not take up this approach as strongly. it was also important that the report explicitly address the commitment to a coherent policy. this is particularly true in the area of trade, which plays a very important role in development cooperation. the commission's failure to include it in the five key policy areas of policy coherence is all the more incomprehensible. i think the inta committee has done a very good job with the proposal. many suggestions from the development committee were taken up, such as the need and the basic economic viability of transparency initiatives, for example in the raw materials sector. so thank you very much. the communication announced for the end of february will be important from the point of view of development policy.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i acknowledge that you, as rapporteur, have shown yourself quite open to the demand for a modern trade policy in your own group with this report. finally, paragraph 5 of your report in particular emphasizes that trade policy today is about coherence with a whole range of other policies and also about sustainability, and i expressly share your call for a fundamental review of commissioner de gucht's trade strategy. but unfortunately, the vast majority of this report then falls back into the old patterns of thinking. they want to promote eu interests rather than build partnerships. they support an aggressive market access strategy by the commission which would weaken the development potential of other countries. they want to use hard bandages to guarantee access to raw materials for european companies, instead of finally offering fair prices and helping to build up manufacturing industries. we shall vote against this old thinking, because continuing this old strategy means, above all, in the long run, a prolongation of the poverty spiral in most of the world. and that is shortsighted, partly because it will end up hurting europe. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. where are we in 2050? will all countries on earth then have a resource management strategy like norway? could manufacturing industries be established? has europe helped them to do so in an environmentally friendly way and to create decent jobs? the future of europe lies in a smart trade policy that seeks to strengthen its partners and recognises that overcoming poverty is essential for its own survival.
madam president, we greens deeply regret that the revised trade strategy marks a clear shift away from multilateral trade talks towards new bilateral trade agreements. we are concerned that the commission is seeking liberalisation commitments from developing countries on services, intellectual property and the so-called ‘singapore issues’ that go well beyond what they would agree to in multilateral fora such as the wto. the introduction of the reciprocity principle regarding public procurement can be extremely harmful for developing countries as it will, among other things, hamper the development of infant industries and processing. i therefore ask the commission to define its trade strategy in full respect of the special and differential treatment granted to developing countries by the wto. governments and parliaments must be able to regulate investment, both to discriminate in favour of investors that support their country’s development, and to ensure that obligations and duties fall on all investors, including foreign investors.
member of the commission. − madam president, unfortunately i will have to be very brief. i would very much like to go into the arguments that have been put forward, but i will just give one overall reply, taking up the idea that was put forward by david martin. you have to see in practice what all these big ideas mean. let me begin with development. everybody is saying that a development strategy should be part of our trade strategy. whatever you may think about human rights in china – that is quite a different chapter – it is very difficult to deny that their development over the last three decades has contributed largely to remedy the shortage of jobs and livelihoods in that country and has lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. on the non-tariff measures, in recent days we have been discussing the last phase of russia’s entry into the wto. this concerns non-tariff free barriers. and the discussion on cars. i can assure you that this is a very tough discussion. it is not about principles but about money, cars, parts and components, jobs, and delocalisation. you speak about sustainable development. i am very much in favour of that and we make sure that in every free trade agreement which we conclude this sustainable development chapter is included. but i can assure you that when you discuss this with india, first of all you have to spend quite a long time discussing whether or not they will agree that such a chapter is in the agreement and then you still have to start discussing the content of such a chapter. they have completely different ideas about this which can be explained by a lot of reasons, development, culture, etc. raw materials are a very important example, as has been said here, but we are doing something about it. we are on the case on raw materials with china and you can see that this is already influencing the quota on rare earth materials. it is also having an impact on the prices, as prices of rare-earth materials are going down. there are also a lot of initiatives in europe and elsewhere in the developed world to use those materials less, thus also contributing to the protection of the environment. they were just a couple of examples. unfortunately, i cannot develop this further because i must keep to the time.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. thank you very much for the debate today. we all got a few glimpses into each other's minds. i have learned today, for example, that even globalisation does not stop the greens, even if mrs keller speaks in english in the plenary rather than in german. i thank the non-attached for the fundamental opposition. mr gollnisch was fundamentally against it because the report is too liberal, mrs stassen was fundamentally against it because we are too protectionist - but i have not seen a single amendment from either of them in the committee. i think that is a pity, because we all need less window-dressing in the plenary and more constructive work in the committees. and our committee is one of the most constructive and collegial committees in the european parliament that i know. i would like to thank the advisory committees for their excellent work. i would also like to thank the members for their contributions to the debate. i think the commission has clear homework to do from the report and from today's debate. i would be very grateful if we could continue this discussion at another time.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12.30 today.
member of the commission. − i have nothing to add to what i have said already on that particular issue. of course the dcfta negotiation is part of the association agreement. it is ongoing, not in a political vacuum but very much based on the values that are at the centre of our relationship. in my recent discussions with the ukraine authorities, i used the opportunity to make that link between the new contractual arrangement that we are ready to engage in, on the one side, and, on the other side, ukrainians delivering on fundamental rights: freedom, the rule of law and justice.
member of the commission. − as you know, we have asked the wto for a waiver with respect to the measures that we have proposed to alleviate the serious problems that pakistan faced last year and is facing again. we also have ‘information’ whereby india would now be prepared to lift its veto. i hope this will come about. then, of course, the discussion would have to be pursued here in this parliament as to whether or not we vote on the proposals that we have put forward, because there will still need to be then a decision from parliament. on the fta, yes, we discussed this yesterday in the foreign affairs council. i mentioned that we are facing quite a lot of problems with these negotiations, be it with respect to wine and spirits, services or cars, but i also stressed that we are continuing to negotiate and that we will insist in our contacts with the indian authorities at the highest level – this will of course be through mr barroso – that the negotiations are completed by the next summit. i do not know whether ms georgieva wants to add anything.
member of the commission. − i would just like to confirm that the floods this year are very severe. we have increased humanitarian assistance from eur 76 million to 86 million because of these floods. in my meeting with the minister for foreign affairs of pakistan, she did bring up the question of alleviating constraints to free trade as another way to help people in a very difficult situation. i would of course welcome that from a humanitarian perspective.
member of the commission. − at the last eu-india summit, prime minister singh declared that his vision was for an accord by the next summit, which will be next february. i hope that by then we will be in a position to conclude the negotiations, but of course it will be very important to achieve the necessary level of ambition.
two weeks ago the plenary held a vote on the doha resolution, in which the amendments of the alde group were rejected. those alde amendments were the very reflection of the position of dg trade, namely to regard any kind of ldc package delivery at the december wto ministerial as a mere down payment and to ask wto members to agree on a roadmap for reaching agreement on all outstanding doha issues. instead, parliament’s resolution gives a clear message to close up the doha negotiations now in order to pave the way for wto reform. can you tell us how the commission will adjust its doha strategy in light of those parliament positions on how you will take our position into account? i have a second question on the fta with india as well. since it now seems it will continue for the next year, will you have any new strategy, or any change in strategy, in case a conclusion cannot be reached by february? are you just going to continue or are you going to come up with an alternative package?
member of the commission. − firstly, i will consider the latter question next february. i will then see what happens and what our next steps should be. it is very difficult to answer hypothetical questions. it is certainly very dangerous in politics. with respect to parliament’s resolution of last month, we tried to find a solution for doha. we have repeatedly tried to make proposals so that we could have a final decision on the doha package. we have made interim proposals with respect to the industrial sectors, chemicals, machinery and microelectronics, but you need two to tango. we simply could not reach an agreement. i have to come to the conclusion that, for the time being, the us are out of business with respect to the doha negotiations. pascal lamy has been putting forward an interim package for december. unfortunately, i think that there again we will fail, not because we have not been making proposals – we have been making numerous proposals – but simply because we cannot reach an agreement on that. that is where we are. we tried to find a way out and it is extremely difficult.
sorry, but you did not really answer my question. the question was: how will the commission adjust its doha strategy in the run up to the december ministerial to take account of parliament’s position as expressed in its recently adopted doha resolution? how will you take account of our position in your new strategy, which you will now have to revise, because we did not apparently agree with your original strategy?
member of the commission. − that is what we have been doing ever since. we are trying to find a way out and have been putting proposals on the table for a package in december as a step up to a final conclusion on the doha round. we cannot find agreement around the table, although i think you would agree with the measures that we have been proposing such as, for example multilateralising the ‘everything but arms’ legislation that we have already had for some time in the european union. we have of course taken note of parliament’s resolution, but we also have to adapt our strategy regarding the evolution on the international scene.
i have a question for commissioner de gucht. i have just been appointed as a european parliament standing rapporteur on trade relations with china, as well as on relations between the eu and ecuador and bolivia. i would like to ask you two questions regarding these two complexes. firstly, what is your projection for the development of trade relations between the eu and china by the year 2020, and what are the current issues, or even agreements, in eu-china trade talks? secondly, you informed yesterday’s council on foreign affairs and trade that the multiparty agreement with colombia and peru remains open for signature by ecuador and bolivia. do you want those two countries to simply sign the negotiated text which is, as you well know, subject to well-founded criticism from trade unions and a number of economists?
member of the commission. − members will understand that it is difficult to reply in two minutes on what our trade relations with china will be in 2020. having said that, i believe that you will see a situation evolving between the european union, china, the united states and the other emerging economies – and by 2020 there will also be other emerging economies – that is more and more multipolar, with everybody then having to take up their responsibilities. you cannot be one of the biggest economies in the world – and by 2020 we could very well be the biggest – and not take up responsibility for the global functioning of the world trading system. so i am not desperate about this, or even negative about it. i think we can find a way out. secondly, on the agreement with colombia and peru, it is true that the agreement is open for accession by ecuador and bolivia. we realised that if they were ready to do so – and at least for one of them we have signs in that direction – some further discussions would of course be needed. however, i am sure that mr scholz will agree with me that we cannot change the structure of that agreement. we will have some specifications for the countries concerned, but we are certainly not going to restart the whole process.
i can agree with your remark concerning the last issue but that means that if ecuador wants to have a chapter on trade and cooperation included, as is just now under discussion, and also the specific needs of the new raw materials and public services policy pursued by bolivia are to be included, then i think we have to come to the point where we have to add this point to the negotiations as well; so not just to simply sign or not sign but to reopen the understanding of the agreement itself.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. more and more trade agreements in the european union deal with matters other than trade policy. an example is the convention for the suppression of the traffic in dangerous goods (acta). rather than limiting itself to the core of the fight against trademark and product piracy and drawing corresponding trade barriers, the convention is now being used to harmonise comprehensive rules on intellectual property enforcement in the contracting states. however, this is not your task as trade commissioner - in my view it would be more the task of mrs reding - nor has it been formulated in terms of eu treaty law and the treaty foundations. so my question to you is: how do you intend to ensure that fundamental rights issues in particular are discussed democratically at international level in the context of the application of the law and that they also have a binding influence on the legal bases?
the fact is that we can see, for example, in the north african revolutions, that an open internet and access to the internet is an essential issue. the question is how you, as commissioner for trade, want to positively protect fundamental rights, such as access to the internet, in such trade agreements. if you say injuries don't happen, that's an argument to be made. but you could also prevent these injuries from happening in the developmental stage. i'd appreciate an answer.
thank you, sir. the offices responsible took care to warn the members present and all those who were in the offices, through the guards, that this was the only thing possible at that time. and in any case, i ask you now to concentrate on the votes and not to open any more debates.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i have just one quick remark to make. at the last minute, a falsified voting list for the epp group was circulated. i just wanted to say that the one that was in the files is the one that applies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too was very pleased to approve this report on the problems of the european school system, partly because, as my predecessor, mrs mazzoni, has already mentioned, we have also dealt with this problem in the committee on petitions in the context of an urgent petition and have stated: firstly, the european school system exists, secondly, it is a success story, and thirdly, of course, we must make structural adjustments, but this must not be at the expense of european schools and the idea of european schools. i am therefore particularly pleased that the internal structure of the debate in the committee on petitions is also reflected in this report. i could therefore agree with him and i would be glad if the things that are in this report were implemented immediately and, as they say, in good time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have agreed with the theurer report, but i would like to add a few points. many eu countries do not call up european funds for structural policy. they cannot call them because they lack the know-how to implement them and because they cannot even pay the small contributions to the co-financing. of course, the european response must now be to send european teams of experts to greece, perhaps also to romania. i also believe that we must in future make programmes more responsive to the most important needs of the weaker countries. in addition, large parts of the europe 2020 strategy simply ignore the needs of the less developed regions. they're too demanding, they're too complicated. we must therefore make greater use of the know-how of the regions in future and not treat them like developing countries. it must also be much easier to use private funds to co-finance projects. we need more flexibility in the next programming period.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too have agreed to the report. let me make three additional comments: i too believe that programmes must of course be controlled in accordance with the target criteria, but that when the target criteria are drawn up care must be taken to ensure that the criteria are not too demanding, that they are simple and straightforward to implement by the countries and that the control bureaucracy is also sustainable and affordable. i also believe that cohesion funds should always be 'help for self-help' funds, i.e. at the end of each period of funding, one should not forget to carry out a review of the target criteria and to check whether the money has achieved the objectives it was intended to achieve. because cohesion should also have a beginning and an end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. every disaster, whether it's a storm, a fire or an accident, presents us with new challenges. we live in a highly technical, highly sensitive and highly specialized world today, and we are increasingly dependent on specialists. it must now become a matter of course that we help each other across our borders, that the member states support each other. cross-border fire and rescue exercises must be in the best interests of the member states and well-funded. we must make effective arrangements in the area of logistics in advance. the single european emergency number 112 is a good step towards simplification. but this number must be made known again and again so that it is firmly fixed in the minds of the people. with all the good equipment, with all the good organizations, what we need first of all is people who are going to be very, very involved in disaster response. i would also like to thank you very warmly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. every year 35 000 people die, many are seriously injured, and the economic damage is 130 billion euros. these numbers are calling us to action. many of the individual activities and measures involve the member states, but also those responsible at regional and local level, as well as companies and individual road users. in order to identify both positive and negative synergies, we need to coordinate the activities of the directorates-general for transport, economy, environment and consumer protection, communications and internal market. such coordination helps to disseminate and apply best practices, latest techniques and innovative approaches. the member states will evaluate the experience gained and draw the best conclusions from it. this applies to speed limits as well as alcohol interlocks, vision tests, driving tests and the carriage of small children. these decisions are left to the member states.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report because it means a further improvement in the quality of life in the palestinian territories. overall, it is another step towards the normalisation of eu relations with palestine, while guaranteeing the existence of israel.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have, of course, agreed to the report by mr theurer. the question of how we can further increase absorption rates in cohesion policy in the future is of great importance to our regions. the difficult situation of public budgets, which do not always involve co-financing, is evident. we could help here by introducing more flexible cofinancing approaches, although in this case we would of course have to ensure that they are not abused. but the basic problem, the difficult financial situation, is not so easy to change. what we, the legislators, really have in hand is the question of how quickly we put the new regulations into effect so that the start of the new funding period does not become as cumbersome as it was at the beginning of 2007. the report makes clear that the delay in taking decisions was a major reason for the delays. we must therefore take matters into our own hands and work with the member states to ensure that this time we get things under way more quickly. this of course also means that the member states must agree quickly on the eu budget, because without an agreement on the multiannual financial framework, we will not be able to agree on the details of the new structural funds period.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i am opposed to humanitarian aid and disaster relief being treated as a matter of common security and defence policy (csdp) in case of doubt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am also firmly opposed to introducing security policy aspects into the subject of disaster prevention and humanitarian aid by referring to the threat of terrorism in this context. i am in favour of civil disaster prevention independent of security considerations and i am in favour of building up logistical capacities independent of the military. i would also point out that the report makes a positive reference to the solidarity clause, which allows military action against strikers, for example.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the fidanza report. it is a balanced and good report, which seeks to highlight ways and ideas of how the number one tourism magnet, europe, can further expand its leading position. both conventional and new forms of tourism are addressed and adequately assessed.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank the rapporteur for his work on a new policy framework for european tourism. i voted for this report and i very much welcome the fact that the commission is now proposing to provide a comprehensive instrument to promote regional tourism. the measures taken to support the development of such beautiful holiday regions as my home state of saxony, where tourism is one of the most important economic sectors with more than 200 000 employees, are setting valuable standards in this area. we therefore need to continue to focus strongly on growth and competitiveness in order to benefit in the long term from the development of these regions. we in parliament should also be even more determined in future to further strengthen smes in the tourism sector, since they make up the bulk of the 1.8 million enterprises in the sector in the union. it is necessary to further adapt the proposed measures to our regions and to develop concrete timetables to ensure that the measures are implemented as quickly as possible in close cooperation with the relevant national and regional actors. i am convinced that if we continue to follow the path we have chosen with these measures with even greater determination, we will have added value for ourselves and for all our visitors.
in writing. - i voted against this report today. no one is arguing against the common goal of the eu member states to halve the number of road deaths. almost 100 people still die every day on europe's roads. the aim is clear, the question is the way: transport policy is and remains a national, regional and partly local task. success is only what is decided close to the reality of people. europe is the wrong place to go. even if all the proposals were scientifically sound, this is not the eu's job. the best example is the scientifically based proposal to ensure that children up to the age of three are in rearward-facing car seats only. as a young father myself, i know that no child wants to ride in the back seat when he is two or three years old. and the parents behind the wheel can't make eye contact, can't figure out what's going on. this own-initiative report is superfluous. such signals are counterproductive, especially in the present crisis. we need to focus on the essentials.
in writing. − the fdp delegation abstained from the final vote on the own-initiative report on european road safety 20112020. this non-legislative text makes a large number of recommendations to increase safety on europe's roads. we are of course in favour of this objective, and we too want to reduce the number of road deaths and injuries. but some measures are clearly overstated, such as the demand for a general speed limit of 30 km/h in cities, the compulsory wearing of warning vests for all passengers in cars or the use of rearward-facing child seats for children up to three years old.
in writing. - i voted against the own-initiative report on european road safety. although there are some good approaches, i cannot bring some of the main points with me. a nationwide speed limit of 30 km/h in inhabited areas would permanently paralyse traffic in urban areas. the establishment of a 'real' eu observatory plus the position of an eu coordinator would not only create unnecessary red tape. after all that experience, we'd have a new, expensive agency very soon. in addition, costly proposals are being made to force the introduction of ever-new electronic gadgets, such as alcohol meters, fatigue alarms or speed control systems. that's not necessary. regular physical, mental and psychological fitness tests for drivers aged 65 and over are discriminatory. the harmonised use of winter tyres is unrealistic given the different climatic conditions in the member states. the requirement that children up to three years of age be required to sit in rear-facing seats is a very strange one. you can't observe the child, you can't communicate with him. the child sees only the backrest, gets bored, becomes restless, and eventually frees himself from the seat. it can do that at the latest by the age of two. and whoever tells me that you shouldn't talk to a child while driving anyway and watch it in the new child seat through a system of mirrors has certainly never chauffeured small children.
in writing. - i rejected the report, not because i am against road safety, but because the measures proposed here are largely dirigiste and massively interfere with civil liberties. they go far beyond the level of recommendations and are in some ways like the repressive catalogue of a dictatorship. cynically, i might say that the fastest way to reduce road deaths is to ban all two-wheelers from now on. but it is precisely such proposals that severely restrict the right of citizens to freedom.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not my first question is to the prime minister of luxembourg. you are now a member of this round of eurozone heads of state and government who are launching the intergovernmentalisation you have just criticised. so you are a member of the intergovernmentalists' club, so to speak. we know that you are not, but i must first of all make you responsible for your lovely colleagues with whom you sit regularly. i now ask the prime minister of luxembourg what he really thinks of the idea that the president of the eurogroup, that is to say the finance minister of the eurozone, should be booted out by an institution not provided for in the european treaties, namely the president of the european council of 27 member states. as i understand it, i may have misread the treaty, mr van rompuy is the president of the 27 heads of state or government. in a declaration of independence, the 17 heads of state or government have now said that mr van rompuy should also be the president of the eurozone or the economic government of the eurozone. question to the prime minister of luxembourg: how is it that this function is not being transferred to the president of the eurogroup, who is actually predestined for it and, in my opinion, is the right man for the job, based on his actions so far?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. i understand your diplomatic language. i respect her, too. i would therefore ask you very specifically, in your capacity as prime minister of luxembourg: if the heads of state or government of the eurozone were to appoint mr van rompuy to this post outside the treaty, would you tell the house that you, as prime minister of luxembourg, would be prepared to support the decision only if it was ensured that in his new role he would also be held accountable to the european parliament?
president of the eurogroup. - mr cohn-bendit is right to congratulate me on coming here today. some of the people around me from afar told me that it wasn't planned. the courtesy i must have towards the european parliament and the fact that some people have tried to convince me not to come explains why i am here!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president juncker, i would like to thank you for your work. our house will vote tomorrow on the strengthening and extension of the stability pact. if the package is passed as negotiated, public borrowing will be virtually penalized. the member states will have to cut back and save enormously. my group thinks that this is the wrong way to go, but that is not important at this stage. my question to you is: what do you think would be necessary to strengthen the revenue side of the member states? is there not an urgent need for action to end the ruinous race to cut taxes in europe with minimum tax rates for corporate profits and high incomes?
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i do not share the strict interpretation of the six-package which is due to be adopted tomorrow, as mr bisky has put it, although i do believe that we must not only consolidate but also strive for more growth in europe, no matter how important and no matter how much choice there is. we will not get out of this crisis unless we stimulate the european growth forces. the texts to be voted on tomorrow will allow this, if we are able to approach this intelligently. i am also of the opinion that we need minimum social standards, a minimum threshold of workers' rights, and that we must also work together on tax coordination. we have a code against unfair tax competition. we should implement it, and it is being implemented, albeit not fast enough. i have always felt that we should move towards a common approach to investment, to corporate taxation. i would also say without contradiction that it would be good for our budgets and for closing the justice gap if we introduced a transaction tax in europe. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. a request. the european central bank is acting correctly and responsibly in our view when it squeezes interest for vulnerable eu countries by buying up government bonds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, my dear cathy ashton. that was very good work in a very difficult field. i am a little surprised that daniel cohn-bendit is yelling at you for five minutes in this room, saying that you should be blackmailing him, that you should solve the problems immediately, and then he leaves the room. i think he could at least wait for your answer. no, that was very good work on a very good field. let us not forget: what were our fears? we were afraid that the european union would again give an image like the iraq war or the one we have now with libya, that our member states would not stick together. germany and france had already made their position clear in separate statements. no, the european union is holding together. they have earned the trust of israelis and palestinians, on both sides of the region. this is a diplomatic achievement in itself, and it is true that only with trust can we play a constructive role. it is also true that the european union can only play a constructive role if our member states are united. both are on track, thanks to your work. in that respect, a good job. let me also mention three important things: we want a european union you are on the right track. we want a negotiated solution in the united nations, as parliament says in its resolution. we don't want a vote with winners and losers. this is very important to us. third, there must be a timetable. we say that during the 66th general assembly the palestinians must get their upgrade, their recognition. we are giving the palestinians this moment of joy, mr swoboda, but whenever reference is made to 1947, i would also like to say that immediately afterwards, in 1948, all the arab neighbours immediately attacked israel. if we have the recognition of palestine as a peaceful state and a state of israel within secure borders, then that is a cause for rejoicing for the palestinians, for the israelis and for us here in europe, who could play a constructive role in this, thanks also to your work.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have criticized the high representative/vice-president of the commission here many times. i must say today that what has just been achieved with the quartet under your leadership after the american silence, finds my great support and applause. we should try to support this. i'm sure we have different ideas in the house about what's gonna come out of this. but i think we agree on one thing: there has to be a two-state solution, with a viable palestinian state and a secure jewish state of israel. it's got to get movement in. i think everybody's trying to get some of that stress out of the way and get back into the movement. i don't know if i can do that. but if a unilateral decision were to be taken, which it will not be, but only a proposal, because there is no majority in the security council and a veto would have to be overcome, we would have a new deadlock which would not allow any further negotiations. it cannot be a solution for anyone, it would be a short-term success for president abbas, and then it would lead to radicalization. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. for this reason, i believe that the quartet's proposals, which seek to bring about peace negotiations with a fixed deadline, under clear conditions, clear conditions, clear objectives, are the appropriate way to be supported, and that we must find the way proposed by the quartet to link peace and security. i believe that it is necessary that no side, through violent action, settlement expansion or whatever, creates conditions that make this impossible. we therefore wish you, high representative, every success in the coming days.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the foreign minister of the federal republic of germany declared yesterday before the united nations that the defence of israel's security is one of the reasons for the federal republic of germany's statehood. i would like to expressly support this for political and moral reasons. but this statement, this defense of israel's security, does not mean that we can remain silent about the injustice that comes from israel. what is happening with the settlements is a continuous violation of the dignity of the palestinians, because they are being deprived of something that belongs to them. madam vice-president, i appreciate your work and i would like to commend you very much for it. but when we hear now that israel is planning to build 1,100 new apartments across the green line in jerusalem, then a word of regret is not enough, but we must say: in this particular situation it is a provocation and we must condemn it. in the end, israel will achieve what it does not want, namely, unilateral recognition of palestine. i prefer a negotiated solution. but if israel continues to behave as it is doing now, then there will be a unilateral recognition of palestine. i must say that the palestinians have the right to live with dignity, and their dignity must be expressed in a state recognized by the international community. israel in secure borders, palestine in secure borders, both living together in partnership. but let us stop at last, whenever settlement building continues, accompanying it with words of too much restraint, we must strongly criticize it, we must condemn it!
madam president, just a short question to mr davies. would he concede that, on the palestinian side, it is fair to speak of two faces as well?
madam president, i would actually like to talk about libya. a green delegation has just returned from libya. we spent four days there and many decisions are being taken now, at eu level as well. it is inspiring and impressive, but a daunting, task. allow me to pick out just two issues. first, the eu has been called upon to help with border control. actually gaddafi asked us exactly the same thing a year ago. i had opposed it in the past because there was no legal framework at all in libya for migration. there still is not. all i ask you, baroness ashton and mr füle, is to ensure that we do not do one without the other – border control without any legal framework – that we do not train border-control personnel in a legal vacuum. i think it would be a serious mistake if we were to do that now. secondly, women have been victims of violence and they have been very active in the revolution. now is the time to support them quickly and unbureaucratically. we met amazing young women full of hope, with a strong will and a desire for freedom. they were the only ones actually asking for financial support because they do not have access to the pots of money wandering around. please do not disappoint them. finally i am very worried about egypt. the military has taken a very hard grip on society again. i want you to speak out on this. we need to hear you and your voice in criticising what is going on.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we support the quartet's peace initiative and i would like to congratulate and thank you, dear cathy ashton, for your efforts and successes in this direction. we must call on both sides, in fact force them, to return to the negotiating table and to achieve results within the time-frame. the contracts must be ready by the end of 2012, and i am standing there - just as mr pöttering has said - with regard to the state budget in germany, without any ifs and buts. it has to be said. but that doesn't mean i have to endorse this government in israel, that i have to stand with netanyahu and lieberman. quite the opposite. i would like to say that this government is a moderate disaster for the people of israel. the basis of life and economic prosperity are being destroyed. it is also a threat to peace in the middle east. i think that needs to be said clearly. what is so reprehensible about mahmoud abbas making a democratic request to the un? 125 countries have already recognized palestine. it is likely that 140 countries will vote in the un for the special status of palestine, similar to the vatican. no, that is not undemocratic, that is the right, and we must continue to work in that direction. the government that is in israel at the moment does not meet the conditions that are necessary.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − i am very pleased to be able to address honourable members in advance of the eastern partnership summit, which is to be held in warsaw at the end of this week. mr president, this house has been a consistent supporter of the eastern partnership and you, mr president, will speak at this event on behalf of the parliament. i welcome your personal commitment, your presence at the summit, and i pay tribute to my colleague, štefan füle for the immense work that he has put into the eastern partnership in every possible way to support its development. the strengthening of our relationship with our neighbours is a key priority and i said at the beginning of my time in office that i considered this to be the first priority for the european union and the one on which we should be judged. our eastern neighbours have changed dramatically in the last twenty years, but it remains vital for us to help them sustain the process of transition, towards democracy and a market economy. this process of course is not only in their interest, but we would argue in our interests, as it enhances our own security and prosperity. it was in may 2009 that we launched the eastern partnership as a framework in which to build up political association and economic integration with six countries, armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. we have made some progress in the last two years and strengthened those bilateral relationships with those partners. this year we want to finalise negotiations for an association agreement with ukraine, including a deep and comprehensive free trade area. we also aim to launch negotiations on deep and comprehensive free trade areas with moldova and georgia once they meet the requirements. in addition, we have made progress on mobility, implementing visa action plans with ukraine and moldova, and visa facilitation and readmission agreements came into force with georgia a few months ago. we want to launch negotiations on a similar basis with armenia, azerbaijan and belarus in the future. in warsaw we will be meeting in the context of those relationships. our partnership extends way beyond governments to links between peoples. i strongly support this parliament’s efforts to enhance its links with eastern counterparts, to the creation of the euronest parliamentary assembly. civil society and business forums have been set up within the partnership and both will meet in the margins of the warsaw summit. štefan füle will participate in those. in addition, over the last four years more than 2 000 students and academics from eastern partnership countries have been funded to study in the eu. we believe that this partnership is built on mutual accountability and responsibility and a shared commitment to the principles of democracy, human rights, freedoms and the rule of law. in poland we will leave our partners in no doubt that the eu’s acknowledgment of their european aspirations and their european choice goes hand in hand with our expectations for their commitment to progressing towards deep and sustainable democracy. mr president, our partners are at different stages and our role is to give practical support to that process of political association and economic integration within the eu. early this month i conveyed a strong message to ukraine stressing that respect for democratic principles and the rule of law, including the right to fair and independent legal processes, must remain the basis of our future relations. štefan füle and i are particularly concerned about the cases against yulia tymoshenko and other members of her government and plans to revert to earlier electoral systems against international advice. as i have already indicated, štefan has been working closely with ukraine over these past months to deliver these messages and to develop the relationship in order that they are able to move forward. we have been unequivocal in the face of clear repression of democratic and human rights in belarus in last december’s presidential elections and since that time. we have imposed sanctions against the regime and called for the immediate release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners. at the same time, we have increased our assistance to belarusian civil society. following the review of the neighbourhood policy that štefan and i undertook, a key element is that the eu applies more conditionality in its actions, linking them more closely to the efforts made by our partners towards reform. that means more financial support, closer political cooperation, deeper economic integration for those partners who embark on deep reforms. it is what is called ‘more for more’. another important ingredient of this new neighbourhood policy is that some support will now be redirected towards non-governmental organisations as we build partnerships with civil society. we have the tools to make this happen through the new neighbourhood civil society facility and we are working on the establishment of a new european endowment for democracy to support change in the neighbourhood. i thank honourable members who participated in giving us advice on both of these. but, mr president, the conflicts in the region in nagorno karabakh, in transnistria, in abkhazia and south ossetia are perhaps the most concerning obstacles to progress. we expect our european partners to do the most they can to make progress towards peaceful settlement, just as we are making specific dedicated efforts to deal with the many challenges these conflicts pose. in august, on my recommendation, the council approved the appointment of philippe lefort as the eu special representative to the south caucasus and the crisis in georgia. his mandate includes contributing to the peaceful settlement of conflicts in accordance with the principles of international law, working closely with all involved. of course nagorno-karabakh remains high on our agenda. in support to the minsk group, we are in a dialogue with all the parties to help find a shared solution. mr president, we have the will and capacity to take action in support of conflict stabilisation and settlement. we established the eu monitoring mission after the war in georgia and we are co-chairing the geneva international talks. in transnistria we have played a part in ensuring a decision on the resumption of the official negotiations in the ‘5 + 2’ format was taken on 22 september and we are looking forward to a negotiating process in which all parties will act in good faith and the spirit of cooperation. mr president, we are all committed to making this summit in warsaw a success, to give renewed momentum to building the closest relationship with our eastern partners and neighbours and to give strong messages on the need for them to act appropriately to develop deep democracy and to make sure that we have the rule of law in action.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. i wonder why mrs ashton is talking about the council bank, because the eastern partnership is community policy. but we may have to discuss that later. let me make a few comments. i hope that the warsaw summit will be a success in this matter and that it will be an atmospheric success. i hope that despite the different developments in the different countries - and of course belarus is one of them - we will be able to bring together enhanced approaches to a multilateral approach, and that - what you have referred to as frozen conflicts, for example nagorno-karabakh - if there is a link between the interests of the eastern partnership countries, it will be easier to resolve such conflicts because a common base of interests will be created. i believe that the eastern partnership should be based much more on this multilateral approach for economic and political reasons, in order to move forward both on the economic and political issues. it is important that in countries like belarus we attach importance to working much more closely with civil society and opposition parties, and that while the european endowment for democracy is not yet in place, we use the european instrument for democracy and human rights, which is already in place, to push through the appropriate promotion of democracy and human rights bypassing the state apparatus. mrs ashton and mr füle, may i have further comments on today's events? i have heard that the prosecutor general in ukraine today, on the basis of an article of the ukrainian criminal code introduced by joseph stalin in 1957 and reinforced again in 1962 with a few changes, has demanded seven years in prison for yulia tymoshenko and a fine of 1.5 billion dollars. we must also note that this is not just the case for tymoshenko, but 15, 16 representatives of the opposition are in a similar situation. i would be very interested to know how we should react and what we should do if there is no explanation on this matter by friday, contrary to the impression that mr füle, mr bildt and i had in our conversation with president yanukovych. because i think there's progress to be made here. we are also in favour of an association agreement, a free trade area, as ukraine sees it. we want to close this. but it must be clear that any other country that wants to have a european perspective must also respect the rules of democracy and the rule of law to a minimum.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the newly created 'more for more' principle should be applied in the eastern partnership, particularly in the development of civil society. the civil society forum is doing a tremendous job in this respect. it is one of the few areas where we are in contact and working with the belarusian opposition. i therefore urge you, lady ashton, and you, commissioner füle, to work towards securing a secretariat for this forum in brussels, so that its work can be strengthened. at present, everything is done on a voluntary basis and the actors are overwhelmed with the organization. this is at the expense of the content we want to advance. the importance of this issue and the extent to which regional conflicts are hindering mutual trust and cooperation have been demonstrated to me by the controversy in the euro-nest parliamentary assembly. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. i very much hope that at the warsaw summit we will press for the release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners in belarus and make it clear that all other issues depend on this. in future, russia should also be more closely involved in solving these problems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eastern partnership is important for us and for our eastern european partners. the extent of the eu's rapprochement with the eu depends on the development of the neighbourhood in terms of the rule of law and democracy. more for more is therefore the right approach the eu has taken. the other side of that is less for less. this is becoming very concrete in relation to ukraine. i hope that mr yanukovych understood the clear words of the three institutions in yalta last week, spoken by carl bildt, elmar brok and štefan füle. so far, the abolition of the stalinist articles of the criminal code, on which the political trials against luzhenko and tymoshenko and others are based, has not yet been initiated. yanukovych must be measured against the state of the rule of law and democracy. anyone who wants to join must not give the united opposition the opportunity to form a committee against the restoration of the dictatorship. they do so precisely because they hope for a common european future for their country. i agree with mr kamiński's criticism of the human rights situation in russia. he mentioned the election. we should not send any election observers there either, because it is unfortunately already clear today that there are no democratic elections taking place there. so the criticism we have of ukraine must of course be equally strongly voiced against a large country like russia. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also say, as someone who is now the chief observer in tunisia, that we should send election observation missions to places where there is hope that the process as a whole can lead to a democratic outcome. i am afraid that it is now clear in russia - also in view of recent events - that this process will not lead to a democratic electoral process. because not all parties that want to run are already allowed, and the media and the entire apparatus are not structured in such a way that we can assume that there will be a duma election in russia that merits the label "democratic" even in the beginning. that's why we should save the money. we didn't go last time either.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, we must be honest and absolutely clear in our analysis of the state of the union. we are facing the greatest challenge our union has ever faced, i believe, in its entire history. it is a financial, economic and social crisis, but also a crisis of confidence, both in our leaders in general, in europe itself and in our ability to find solutions. the causes of the crisis are well known: europe has not responded to the challenges of competitiveness. some of our member states have lived beyond their means. in the financial markets, there has been irresponsible and unacceptable behaviour. we have allowed imbalances to grow between our member states, particularly in the euro zone. and the earthquakes that are shaking the international order, the pressures of globalisation have made the situation even worse. the result is that our societies are experiencing great anxiety. many of our citizens are afraid of the future. there is a danger of national, if not nationalist, retreat as never before. populist responses call into question the great achievements of the european union: the euro, the single market, even the free movement of people. i think we can say that the sovereign debt crisis today is first and foremost a crisis of political confidence. and our citizens, but also the outside world, are watching us and asking: are we really a union? are we really willing to support the single currency? are the most vulnerable member states determined to make the necessary reforms? are the more prosperous member states really prepared to show solidarity? is europe really capable of achieving growth and creating jobs? i say to you today: yes, this is a serious situation, but there are solutions to this crisis. europe has a future if we restore trust. and to restore trust we need stability, growth, but also political will from political leadership. it is together that we must propose to our citizens a european renewal. (applause) i would like to thank we must now put into practice what we have seen in the berlin declaration signed by the commission, parliament and the european council on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome. we citizens of the european union are united in our happiness."today we live together as we never could in the past. we are fortunate to be united as citizens of the european union". it's a statement, and words matter! we must translate this will into courage every day. with our institutions, not against them, we can succeed. for some, we know, it's the need for stability that prevails. for others, it's growth. i'm telling you, we need both! some preach discipline, others solidarity. we need both! there is no longer any question of one-off solutions or partial solutions. we need a determination for global solutions, a greater ambition for europe. i really believe that we are at a turning point in our history, a moment when, if we do not move forward in integration, we risk fragmentation. so it is a question of political will, a test of fire for our whole generation. yes, it is possible to get out of this crisis. not only is it possible, but it is necessary! that's what political leadership is about: making what is necessary possible. (applause) let me start with greece. greece is and will remain a member of the euro area. (applause) i would like to thank you. greece must implement its commitments in full and on time. in turn, the other euro area members have pledged to support greece and each other. as stated at the euro area summit on 21 july: we are determined to continue to provide support to countries under programmes until they have regained market access, provided they successfully implement those programmes. that is why i created the task force for greece. we have just launched an action plan based on two major pillars: around 100 viable and high-quality projects, investing in all greek regions, to make the best use of greece's remaining allocation of the structural funds, and a major drive to reduce bureaucratic procedures for european co-funded projects. eur 15 billion remain to be spent in greece from the structural funds. this will support the greek economy with an urgent programme of technical assistance to the greek administration. a programme of eur 500 million to guarantee european investment bank loans to greek smes is already under way. the commission is also considering a wider guarantee mechanism to help banks start lending again to the real economy. all of this represents huge support for greece's fight-back and greece will have to deliver concrete results. it must break with counter-productive practices and resist vested interests. but we have to be clear about this. this is not a sprint, but a marathon. the task of building a union of stability and responsibility is not only about greece. the economic outlook that we face is very difficult. we are confronted with the negative effects of an ongoing global reassessment of risks. it is therefore our responsibility to rebuild confidence and trust in the euro and our union as a whole. we can do this by showing that we are able to take all the decisions needed to run a common currency and an integrated economy in a competitive, inclusive and resource-efficient way. for this we need to act in the short, the medium and the long term. let us start with the short term. the first step is to quickly fix the way we respond to the sovereign debt crisis. this will require stronger mechanisms for crisis resolution. we need credible firepower and effective firewalls for the euro. we have to build on the efsf and the upcoming european stability mechanism. the efsf must immediately be made both stronger and more flexible. this is what the commission proposed already in january. this is what heads of state and government of the euro area agreed upon on 21 july. only then, when you ratify this, will the efsf be able to deploy precautionary intervention; to intervene to support the recapitalization of banks and intervene in the secondary markets to help avoid contagion. once the efsf is ratified, we should make the most efficient use of its financial envelope. the commission is working on options to this end. moreover we should do everything possible to accelerate the entry into force of the esm. naturally we trust that the european central bank in full respect of the treaty will do whatever is necessary to ensure the integrity of the euro area and to ensure its financial stability. but we can't stop there. we must deepen economic coordination and integration, particularly in the euro area. this is at least as big a political task as an economic one. today, you will vote on the six-pack proposals that we have put before you and the council one year ago. this six-pack reforms the stability and growth pact and extends surveillance to macroeconomic balances. we are now back very close to what the commission originally put on the table. you have played a decisive role in keeping the level of ambition of these proposals, and i really want to thank you and congratulate you for that. this legislation will give us much stronger enforcement mechanisms. we can now discuss member states' budgetary plans before national decisions are taken. this mix of discipline and integration holds the key to the future of the euro area. only with more integration and discipline can we have a really credible euro area. these are indeed important steps forward, but we must go further. we need to complete our monetary union with an economic union. we need to achieve the tasks of maastricht. it was an illusion to think that we could have a common currency and a single market with national approaches to economic and budgetary policy. let us avoid another illusion that we can have a common currency and a single market with an intergovernmental approach. (applause) for the euro area to be credible - and this is not just the message of the federalists, this is the message of the markets - we need a truly community approach. we need to really integrate the euro area; we need to complete the monetary union with a real economic union. and this truly community approach can be built how? in the coming weeks, the commission will build on the 'six pack' and present a proposal for a single, coherent framework to deepen economic coordination and integration, particularly in the euro area. this will be done in a way that ensures the compatibility between the euro area and the union as a whole. of course, we do not want the euro area to break the great acquis of the single market and all our four freedoms. at the same time, we can pool decision-making to enhance our competitiveness. this could be done by integrating the euro plus pact into this framework, in full respect of the national implementation competences. for all this to work, we need more than ever the independent authority of the commission to propose and assess actions that the member states should take. governments, let's be frank, cannot do this by themselves. nor can this be done by negotiations between governments. indeed, within the community's powers, the commission is the economic government of the union; we certainly do not need more institutions for this. (applause) for the same reason the treaties have created supranational institutions. for the same reason the european commission, the european central bank, the european court of justice were created. the commission is the guarantor of fairness. moreover, the commission, which naturally works in partnership with the member states, is voted by and accountable to this house, the directly elected parliament both of the euro area and of the european union as a whole. (applause) i would like to thank you. it is also time to have unified external representation of the euro area. in accordance with the treaty the commission will make proposals to this end. a union of stability and responsibility built on this basis and with a common approach will also allow the member states to seize fully the advantages of a bigger market for the issuance of sovereign debt. once the euro area is fully equipped with the instruments necessary to ensure both integration and discipline, the issuance of joint debt will be seen as a natural and advantageous step for all, on the condition that such eurobonds will be stability bonds, bonds that are designed in a way that rewards those who play by the rules and deters those who do not. as i already announced to this house, the commission will present options for such 'stability bonds' in the coming weeks. some of these options can be implemented within the current treaty, whereas fully fledged eurobonds would require treaty change. this is important because, we can do a lot within the existing treaty of lisbon. and there is no excuse for not doing it, and for not doing it now, but it may be necessary to consider further changes to the treaty. i am also thinking particularly of the constraint of unanimity. the pace of our joint endeavor cannot be dictated by the slowest. today we have a union where it is the slowest member that dictates the speed of all the other member states. this is also not credible from the markets' point of view; this is why we need to solve this problem of decision-making. a member state has of course the right not to accept decisions. that is a matter of national sovereignty, as they say, but a member state does not have the right to block the moves of others; the others also have their national sovereignty and, if they want to go further, they should go further. (applause) i would like to thank you. our willingness to consider treaty change should not be a way or an excuse to delay the reforms that are necessary today, but i believe that this longer-term perspective will reinforce the credibility of our decisions now. a union of stability and responsibility means swiftly completing the work on a new system of regulation for the financial sector. we need well capitalized, responsible banks lending to the real economy. much has been said about the alleged vulnerability of some of our banks. european banks have substantially strengthened their capital positions over the past year. they are now raising capital to fill the remaining gaps identified by the stress tests in summer. this is necessary to limit the damage of financial market turbulence on the real economy and on jobs. over the last three years, we have designed a new system of financial regulation. let us remember, we have already tabled 29 pieces of legislation. you have already adopted several of them, including the creation of independent supervisory authorities, which are already working. now it is important to approve our proposals for new rules on derivatives, naked short selling and credit default swaps, fair remuneration for bankers. these proposals are there; they should be adopted by the council and by parliament. the commission will deliver the remaining proposals by the end of this year, namely rules on credit rating agencies, bank resolution and personal responsibility of financial operatives. so we will be the first constituency in the g20 to have delivered on our commitment to global efforts for financial regulation. in the last three years, member states - i should say taxpayers - have granted aid and provided guarantees of eur 4.6 trillion to the financial sector. it is time for the financial sector to make a contribution back to society. (applause) that is why i am very proud to say that today the commission adopted a proposal for the financial transaction tax. (applause) i would like to thank you. today i am putting before you a very important text that if implemented may generate revenue of about eur 55 billion per year. some people will ask "why?" why? why? it is a question of fairness. if our farmers, if our workers, if all the sectors of the economy, from industry to agriculture to services, pay a contribution to society, the banking sector should also give a contribution to society. (applause) and if we need because we need fiscal consolidation, if we need more revenues, the question is where these revenues are coming from. are we going to tax labor more? are we going to tax consumption more? i think it is fair to tax financial activities that in some of our member states do not pay the proportionate contribution to society. but it is not only financial institutions who should pay a fair share. we cannot afford to turn a blind eye to tax evasion. so it is time to adopt our proposals on the tax on savings within the european union, and i call on the member states to finally give the commission the mandate we have asked for to negotiate tax agreements for the whole of the european union with third countries. stability and responsibility are not enough on their own. we need stability, but we also need growth. we need responsibility, but we also need solidarity. the common economy can only remain strong if it delivers growth and jobs. that is why we must unleash the energy of our economy, especially the real economy. the forecasts today point to a strong slowdown, but significant growth in europe is not an impossible dream. it won't come magically tomorrow, but we can create the conditions for growth to resume. we've done it before. we must and we can do it again. it is true that we do not have much room for a new fiscal stimulus. but that does not mean that we cannot do more to promote growth. first, those who have fiscal space available must explore it but in a sustainable way. secondly, all member states need to promote structural reforms so that we can increase our competitiveness in the world and promote growth. together, we can and must tap the potential of the single market, exploit all the benefits of trade and mobilise investment at european level. let me start with the single market. full implementation of the services directive alone could, according to our estimates, deliver up to eur 140 billion in economic gains, but today, two years after the deadline for implementation, several member states have still not adopted the necessary laws so we are not benefiting from all the possible gains from having a true services liberalisation in europe. but we can also do more. we must adopt what is on the table. we have adopted the single market act in the european commission. a number of key initiatives are ready. we are close to having a european patent which would cut the cost of protection to 20% of current costs. i expect this to be concluded by the end of this year. moreover, for the single market act, we should consider a fast-track legislative procedure. by the way, in many areas we should follow a fast-track legislative procedure because we are living in real emergency times. this will allow us to respond to these extraordinary circumstances. we need a digital single market, which will benefit each and every european by around eur 1 500 per year by using the possibilities of e-commerce to end for example mobile roaming charges. an extra 10% in broadband penetration would bring us between 1 and 1.5% of extra annual growth. in a competitive world we must also be well-educated, with skills to face these new challenges. we must innovate and we must act in a sustainable way. we have already presented detailed proposals on innovation, resource-efficiency and how we can strengthen our industrial base. modern industrial policy is about investing in research and innovation. we need to accelerate the adoption of our efforts to boost the use of venture capital to fund young, innovative companies across europe. sustainable jobs will come if we focus on innovation and new technologies, including green technologies. we must see that green and growth go together. for example, the renewables sector has already created 300,000 jobs in the last five years in the european union. the global green technology market will triple over the next decade. we must focus our action on where it makes a real impact. growth in the future means we must actively pursue also our smart regulation agenda, which will give a saving of eur 38 billion for european companies, particularly for smes, but member states must also do their part in reducing the administrative burden. but we also need investment. these reforms are important, but we also need some kind of investment at european level. a union of growth and solidarity needs modern, interconnected infrastructure. we have proposed for the next mff (multi-annual financial framework) to create a facility to connect europe in energy, in transport, in digital. this innovative part of our mff proposal has to be seen together with another very important innovative idea: the project bond. in the coming weeks the commission will publish its proposals for eu project bonds. we are also proposing pilot projects, so that we can frontload growth. we can do it even before the mff is adopted. in this way we can frontload some of the major infrastructure investments europe needs. the union and its member states should urgently consider how to allow our own policy-driven bank, the european investment bank, to do more possibly much more to finance long-term investment. to do so, we need to explore ways to strengthen the eib's resources and capital base so that it can lend to the real economy. in the year 2000 there was eur 22 billion of venture capital in europe. in 2010 there was only 3 billion. if we want to promote entrepreneurship we must reverse this decline and we need that support namely for smes. we can also get more growth out of the structural funds, by increasing absorption capacity, using the structural funds to support macroeconomic performance. they are essential for innovation, for training, employment, and for smes. i would also urge this house to adopt by the end of the year the proposals we made in august to increase cofinancing rates to those countries with assistance programmes. this will inject essential funding into these economies, while reducing pressure on national budgets. reforms to our labour markets, public finances and pension systems require a major effort from all parts of society. we all know these changes are necessary, so that we can reform our social market economy and keep our social model, but it is imperative that we hold on to our values - the values of fairness, of inclusiveness and of solidarity. right now we need to give concrete hope to the one in five of our young people who cannot find work. in some countries, the situation of our young people is dramatic. i want to call on companies to make a special effort to provide internships and apprenticeships for young people. these can be supported by the european social fund. by getting businesses, the social partners, national authorities and the european union level involved in a young opportunities initiative, we can make a difference. this i believe is the most urgent social matter: to respond to the anxiety of our young people who cannot find a job. it is much better to have an apprenticeship, a traineeship, than to take their anxieties onto the streets expressing their lack of confidence in the union as a whole. (applause) we must accelerate the most urgent parts of our growth and jobs plan, europe 2020. the commission will focus on the situation of young people in each and every member state in its country-specific recommendations for next year. i believe we must give our future a real chance. but right now we also need to act to help the 80 million europeans at risk of poverty. this means that the council must finally approve our proposal to safeguard the programme for the supply of food for the most deprived persons. (applause) i would like to thank this parliament for the political support it has given to our proposed solution. fifty years ago, 12 countries in europe came together to sign the social charter. to be precise, it was in october 50 years ago. today, the charter has 47 signatories, including all our member states. to guarantee these fundamental values in europe, i believe we need to boost the quality of social dialogue at european level. the renewal of europe can only succeed with the input and the ownership of all the social partners of trade unions, of workers, of business, civil society in general. we should remember that our europe is a europe of citizens. as citizens, we all gain through europe. we gain a european identity and citizenship apart from our national citizenship. european citizenship adds a set of rights and opportunities the opportunity to freely cross borders, to study, to work abroad. here again, we must all stand up and preserve and develop these rights and opportunities, just as the commission is doing now with our proposals on schengen. we will not tolerate a rolling-back of our citizens' rights. we will defend the freedom of movement and all the freedoms in our union. (applause) i would like to thank you. ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the commission's activities cover many other areas. i cannot deal with all of them here, but they are mentioned in the letter i sent to the president of parliament, which you all received. however, before i conclude, let me speak of the external responsibility of the european union. i want an open europe, a europe committed to the world. european action in the world is not only the best guarantee for our citizens, the defence of our interests and our values, but it is also indispensable action in the world. today, it's fashionable to talk about the g2. i don't think the world wants a g2. both of them, by themselves, wouldn't be of much use to a g2. we know the tension that bipolarity created in the cold war. i believe that europe is more indispensable than ever if we want a fair and open world. i believe that the changing world we know needs a europe that takes responsibility. an influential europe, a europe of 27, soon to be joined by croatia, a europe of 28. a europe that continues to lead the way, whether on trade or climate change, as we face the big challenges ahead: from durban to rio+20. europe must maintain its leadership position on these issues. let us also turn our eyes and our attention to our neighbours to the south. the arab spring is a profound transformation which will have very important consequences, not only for these peoples, but also for us, for our europe. that is why europe should be proud. we were the first to stand with the tunisians, the egyptians, the libyans, who wanted democracy and freedom. that is why europe supports these legitimate aspirations, in particular through our partnership for democracy and prosperity. i hope that the arab spring is also the door to hope for peace in the whole region, to the idea of a palestinian state that should live in peace with the state of israel, as europe wants. (applause) i would like to thank but let us also turn our eyes and our attention to our neighbours to the east. on friday, i will be in warsaw for the eastern partnership summit. i will go there with an ambition: closer political relations and economic integration between us and our partners in the region. the european union has extraordinary power to transform, to inspire many people around the world. and if these countries do deeper reforms, we can help them and we can engage them more closely, politically, and also integrate more closely economically. finally, let us not leave the most deprived behind and live up to our commitments to achieve the millennium development goals. let us also be realistic and recognize that if europe is to have its full influence, if europe is to be a real power, we must strengthen the common foreign and security policy. it has to be credible. it must be based on a common security and defence dimension if we are to really count in the world. long ago, some people opposed the idea of european defence, fearing that it would harm the atlantic alliance. you have already noticed that today it is the americans themselves who are asking us to do more as europeans. the world has changed, the world is changing fundamentally. do we really want to matter in the world? that is why, at a time when defence budgets are under pressure, we must do more together, with the means at our disposal. the commission is taking its share of responsibility in this by pursuing efforts towards a single defence market and by using the powers conferred on it by the treaty to develop a european defence industrial base. ladies and gentlemen, let us not be naive, the world is changing and if europe wants to count in the world and defend the interests of its citizens, if it wants to count and influence the future of the world, it needs a political dimension and a defence dimension. ladies and gentlemen, i have concluded. when our mandate, the mandate of this parliament, ends in 2014, it will be exactly a century since the great war broke out on this continent, a dark period that was followed by the second world war, one of the most dramatic chapters in the history of europe and the world. today, i think it is safe to say that such horrors are unimaginable in europe. they are to a large extent because we have the european union. because we have, through the vision of europe, through economic and political integration, built the guarantee of peace on our continent. (applause) i would like to thank that is why we cannot allow this great work to be jeopardized. we have inherited it from the previous generations. it's not our generation that's going to question it. let us be clear: if we start to fragment europe, if we start to go backwards, to look back at the great achievements of europe, our objective will undoubtedly run the risk of fragmentation. as i said, the crisis we are experiencing today is rooted in a political problem. it's our will to live together that's being tested. that is why we must deepen the european union. that is why we have built common institutions. that is why the european interest must be safeguarded. and the reality today is that intergovernmental cooperation is not enough to get europe out of this crisis, to give europe a future. on the contrary, i must tell you quite frankly that a certain intergovernmentalism risks leading to renationalisation and fragmentation. a certain intergovernmentalism could spell the end of the united europe we want. (applause) i would like to thank remember, the decisions we make or fail to make now will shape our future. i would like to confess something to you: it really hurts me when i see people in other parts of the world dictating to us europeans with a certain paternalism what we should do. i really believe that if we have problems, very serious problems, we do not have to apologize for our democracy. we do not have to apologize for our social market economy. i think we must therefore call on our institutions, but also on our member states, in paris, berlin, athens, lisbon and dublin, to take a leap of pride in being european, a leap of dignity. and we need to say to our partners, "thank you for your advice, but we are capable of acting together. we are able to get through this crisis". i want that pride of being european. (applause) and the pride of being european is not only the pride of our great culture, of our great civilization, of all that we have given to the world, not only the pride of our past, but the pride of the future that will be ours. that's the trust we need to rebuild between us. i think it's possible. some people say, "it's very difficult, it's not possible". and i would like to remind you of what a great man, a great african, nelson mandela, said: "it always seems impossible, until it is done. let's do it. " i was like, we can do it, we can do it with confidence, we can do the renewal of our europe. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. president barroso has described the situation of the european union realistically. you have - we have been waiting for this for a long time - finally shown yourself to be the man at the centre of the community body you represent, and are ready - as we heard today, if necessary in battle - to defend the community method. i would like to thank you very much on behalf of my group. that's the right approach. (applause from the centre) we live in a time when decades of certainty no longer exist. there was a certainty that european integration would continue to advance. it has already become apparent in the 2005 "no" votes on the constitution that this is no longer the case. the european project was certain to be irreversible. that's not the case anymore. there was the certainty for generations that europe would make a contribution, that its children would be better off than they were. my parents were sure i'd be better off than they ever were. that's what happened. that was a certainty for generations. and we, the younger ones, we knew we'd be better off than our parents. you could see that. you could grab it with your hands. and behind it was the idea of europe. how's it going today? can we say that our children will be better off than we are? aren't our children the ones who ask us, how do you want to ensure that the prosperity you've had all your life is also our prosperity? countries where more than 50% of young, highly qualified men and women are unemployed cannot be associated with the certainty that europe, as it is today, is creating the conditions for full employment to return, that there is social security, that investment in education and parents investing heavily in their children's education are bearing fruit. why is that? is it because the european integration approach is wrong? i think we can all agree on that. no, the idea that europe can secure this prosperity by acting together economically, ecologically, socially, culturally, with the institutions created for this purpose, is still correct. the wrong thing is the way the idea is handled. what's wrong is how it's being handled. europe is not in crisis of its idea. europe is having a crisis of leadership. that's why what you said here today was right. the intergovernmentalism which is flourishing in this union cannot even be called intergovernmentalism any more! one of the organs of the european union that we never talk about is the council. the council itself - you have to talk to the men and women who are in the council - the body of the governments of the european union is being disempowered. the committee of permanent representatives, ecofin, the general affairs council, are not making any decisions. we are dealing with a relapse into a capitalist diplomacy which is bringing europe to the brink of collapse. (applause from the centre) and that is in view of the challenges we face in the 21st century! you can really say: this is the method of the 19th century congress of vienna, where the powers of europe, as they have just told us, want to meet once every six months to consult behind closed doors and then tell their astonished subjects what they could not agree on again. this, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be the future of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the political tactics of the last opposition or ruling party, in the big or small member state, are ultimately more important than the stability of the world monetary system. this is the crisis in europe and we must confront it! i think we saw a first approach today. what is the european union suffering from? it suffers from the fact that the politics of this capitalist diplomacy are driven by the markets. the same markets, by the way, and you were right to say that, which had to be stabilised by national budgets a few years ago. if we are talking about markets, we must be very specific, banks that have swallowed billions in the form of an anglo-american economic model that we are still - and we will hear this again today - touting as non-plus. three years after the deepest banking crisis, we are in the situation of having to watch inaction as a young man in his early 30s embezzles the money of a swiss bank in the amount of 1.5 billion euros, gambles away! he sits down at the computer, he types in a few numbers, he's drunk, 1.5 billion is gone. three years after that, you'll have experienced these speculative orgies! it was a swiss bank, on whose accounts - i assume this - there is certainly capital that was taken out of greece to avoid taxation there. i'm sure you will. (applause from the centre) i therefore ask these heads of government: when will the concrete proposals for market regulation finally come out? when will these devastating speculations - by the way, with financial products that no normal person understands anymore - finally be banned? when will the countless promises that have been made finally be followed by action? these are the crucial questions. this behaviour creates a dangerous vacuum in europe. a vacuum created by the inaction of governments. you have started today - late, i think, but hopefully not too late - to do your part to fill the vacuum, and we, the european parliament, are called upon to work together with the community institutions, the commission and parliament, to create the legal conditions for the creation of these market regulations where we can influence them. because it is absolutely clear: if i cut the pensions of the people in germany, greece, finland, slovakia or wherever, and then say as head of government, i have to stabilize the banks tell their managers that they knew nothing about the speculations of this young man, and then go home with their ignorance with millions of dollars in compensation then i can understand if people take to the streets and rebel! i can understand that! in the vacuum of non-action and non-regulation, a dangerous mix of emotions is introduced: the hopelessness of a young generation, the despair of parents who see that what they believed their project to be no longer delivers what it has delivered. this leads to a gigantic distrust of our community and of our concept of community values. this distrust must be countered by concrete, clear action. we heard that today. you're right, i know. not someone who's been butchered in a back room, and if he's still as beautiful as he is and his name is herman van rompuy, is the man who can solve this problem. if you want economic government in europe, you can have it here, it is sitting there. and if you want it to be democratically controlled by us, you need only look at the treaty of lisbon. it's written there. what we don't need is a capital diplomacy alongside the treaties. what we need are the european legal instruments. we are a community of law, not a random generator. if we want to solve this crisis, we must strengthen the community institutions, because the challenges of the 21st century - environment, currency, migration - cannot be solved by the national vanguard, but only by a courageous joint action by the european community institutions. that is our task as the european parliament. i believe that the overwhelming majority of this house is ready to do so, and the few who believe that we have to be told here - whether with flags or words - that the nation state is the solution, are the people who will put the ax to the social and peaceful future of the next generation. the pro-european groups are therefore called upon to act together. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union. i think there is hardly anyone in this room who has not enjoyed hearing you tell us, mr barroso, that you are now ready to take the great leap forward for europe. you can tell by the applause. before we agree on the next steps in these leaps, i would like to say one more thing about the analysis of the situation as we see it. mr verhofstadt said that europe is in a bad state. i would say that we have prevented the worst case scenario of a financial and economic crisis, but we are far from having everything under control. if we look at the member states, we see that what we have said time and again, namely that we are too late with too little action, is still true today. so in some member states, the efsf is now being voted on - which is not wrong, but it must be said that if you classify this in time and space, then the permanent crisis mechanism and its architecture and the actual construction of an economic government would actually have to be decided. this 'too late' and 'too little' is not only true of action in the council. i think that the package on economic policy which is to be adopted here, i must also say that we have taken our time. there were good reasons for this. however, we are now missing some opportunities with regard to this package. it's not the leap forward for good development. the imbalance - and we have spoken about this too many times - between stabilization policy and policy for reconstruction and ways out of the crisis is not right in this package either. what i consider to be the real issue of the political crisis in the european union is not being resolved either by our proposals on the financial crisis or by our proposals in the framework of the six-pack. our real problem is that we have created more injustice in different areas with different measures in recent years. if we do not correct this, we will not be able to control and stop the forces of flight which exist not only because of the diplomacy of the capital, but also because the citizens are losing confidence in its efficiency. on the subject of injustice, i think, mr barroso, that we cannot allow this to continue, that for many years we have been making mad money on the financial markets, until it exploded and then it was decided: we are socializing the problems and leaving the profits to those who have happily speculated. i think this is a big problem and i think the citizens have also understood that the stabilization has been at their expense so far. i believe that in the growing need to act in the debt crisis, we are also doing things that lead to even greater injustice. we cannot rely on austerity alone. if you look at what's happening in greece, what's happening in ireland -- a number like the rise in suicide rates in those countries alone, it makes you blush. we cannot unilaterally restructure and save budgets, we must do at the same time what my group has been advocating all along in the negotiations on the economic policy package. we must think about how to combat poverty in the european union. we need to figure out how to invest in education. and we must also really invest in sustainable economic development, otherwise we will not find the majority of citizens in favour of more europe. (applause from the centre) i would like to emphasize once again, mr barroso, three months before a delegation from this parliament will travel to durban for the next world climate conference: even though in your speech you spoke of renewable energy and investments in sustainable development, it is truly crazy how forgetful european politics is. we agreed in 2007 and 2008 that not investing in ambitious climate action will be more expensive than we can currently afford. we cannot achieve generational equity with our current austerity policies without a clear plan on how to organize sustainable development with a focus on climate change and resource efficiency. i'm afraid you're very weak at this point. (applause from the centre) i was going to say something about the southern mediterranean. i'll cross that off. i wish catherine ashton success in bringing our past, the european past, to the south of the mediterranean. and i wish you luck in the negotiations on israel and palestine, because this two-state solution and peace there is another key to better development in the arab world. in conclusion, mr barroso, on your announced big leap: you know that we want you to be the man who now makes sure that something we have been calling economic governance is actually tackled. i think in the next few weeks, if you follow through on this as consistently as you promised, you're going to get some ringing in your ears. and when you discuss this with the german government or the dutch government, you will think of guy verhofstadt and ask why he did not strengthen his liberal colleagues in the government. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) dear guy, we love your european spirit, but we sometimes miss it when dealing with your colleagues! i would like to make one further point and turn to the other side of the house. the polish presidency, mr barroso, could be very important for this approach you are pursuing. with its attitude to europe and its attitude to the capital diplomacy that has taken place so far, the polish presidency could make a real step forward in preparing for a new treaty change and laying the foundations for what we envisage as economic governance. (applause) the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. dear rebecca, would you be aware that the dutch prime minister has proposed to nominate a commissioner - olli rehn, to be specific - as the quasi-european finance minister? an idea that we believe is right and good. the second question i have for you is this: you spoke here about imbalance and about investments that need to be made. how do you explain that red-green will vote here and today against an improved, revised, strengthened stability pact to create stability for the eurozone, while we in berlin are getting wonderful advice from red-green? (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am well aware that the dutch government takes a somewhat different view from the german government. but one thing must not be forgotten: this unconditional commitment to less intergovernmentalism and more europe is not shared or forced by the governments in which the liberals, as represented here by guy verhofstadt, also sit. secondly, as regards our criticism of the three reports which are being adopted here today, which deal with stability policy and the management of budget deficits, we are really firmly convinced that we must pursue a sustainable budgetary policy. our theme is also called, in budgetary policy, generational justice. but the way - and you can look at greece as an example - the way budgetary policy is made, we do not represent. if we are not able to provide young people with prospects and if we are not able to say how to achieve the sustainable development that we hear so much about, then we do not think that this is a contribution to generational justice. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the commission is not alone. the european union is facing its worst crisis since its founding. i think we can all agree on that. it is, of course, an economic, financial and debt crisis, it is also, of course, greece, it is also the euro. the member states and the european union have not established sufficiently effective financial market rules. politics therefore threatens to become a plaything for speculators. the measures taken so far are aimed at fiscal consolidation through expenditure cuts. in practical terms, this means social cuts. it means cuts in wages and benefits, rising unemployment, falling public investment, falling real economic growth. decisions are increasingly being taken by intergovernmental channels, without prior consultation with parliaments, rather in consultation with bankers. the european union is losing confidence and approval. europe's sceptics i say this because of the objective statement gaining ground. we are in the midst of a political crisis of credibility in the european union. i think we're in agreement on that. mr barroso, we are not in complete agreement on the analysis of the causes of the crisis or on the best solutions. i would like to stress, however, that despite all the criticism that is necessary, we on the left are aware of our responsibility towards the european union. the idea of european unification is also a very left-wing idea, defended by many leftists in the past and in the present. we will defend this idea in the future and we will ensure that it is not left to the profit interests of the markets and speculators. i am convinced that europe needs much more cooperation than further retreat into national interests. europe needs a solidary economic, fiscal and social policy, which is democratically legitimized. we therefore support you, mr barroso, when you finally present the legislative proposals promised and demanded by this parliament as the first steps towards comprehensive financial regulation, taxation of financial market transactions, eurobonds, which reaffirm the principle of solidarity of the european union. we will continue to stress the value and urgency of solidarity between states and between peoples. solidarity does not mean just financial aid, but solidarity also means resistance to the government's austerity mania. as the most senior representative of a genuine european institution, you should be able to join our call for a break with this austerity craze. the threat i see at the moment is that the social division of our societies is progressing massively. the policy is geared to saving banks. here it provides a credit facility of hundreds of billions of euros. the small people, on the other hand, are left with nothing but to pay the price for the failed policies of liberalization and privatization. they are forced into massive austerity programmes, forced to work longer hours, and have their wages and salaries and benefits cut. they are at the mercy of the government's austerity programs. social justice has been completely undermined. this can't go on. we see this in the mass actions of the population in greece, portugal, ireland and spain. they're making that very clear. let me conclude by saying: either there will be a common solidarity way out of the crisis, so that the eu can emerge better, more socially, more sustainably and even more democratically from the crisis, or there will be no solution for the eu as a whole with unpredictable consequences. (applause) the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).
yes, that's a very different problem. however, i want to make it very clear what dangers i see. i think i said that, too. withdrawing from the nation is not the answer to any of the problems of the 21st century. (applause from the centre) that is why i am also in favour of the community method. that's what i was gonna say. otherwise, of course, you have to be very discriminating about all these things. but the basis must be that together the nations of europe can solve something. that is why the european union exists. individually and as nations, they are powerless and fall back into the middle ages. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the commission, you made a very good speech! what's going to matter now is to implement them, the follow-up, as guy verhofstadt said, that something is really happening. i think we can agree on a number of points here, namely that we need more europe to overcome this crisis. but we need the real europe, and that means for us: we want a stability union instead of a debt union. we need a debt brake in the national constitutions of governments. we need - and i disagree with my group's chairman - to continue to have different interest rates, because they act as an economic brake on debt. we also need orderly state insolvencies. so we need rules for what happens when a country becomes insolvent so that we can keep it in the eurozone - that's the crucial point. and we need a stability pact with teeth, with automatic sanctions. i must say one thing: the fact that the red and green parties want to vote against this fraudulent stability pact here and today is a continuation of the policy of gerhard schröder in 2003, the destruction of the culture of stability in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr barroso, you have called for a renaissance of the european idea. i think we can all agree that the european idea is a good one, but it needs a new rationale, it needs a new profile for why we need europe and more europe in the 21st century. as chairman of the environment committee, i have one idea in mind: europe must become a union of stability - also in environmental terms and not just in financial terms. young people, above all, understand that we, with nine billion people, will have a fight for energy in the middle of the century, a fight for raw materials, a fight for food. so let us conclude a european pact for ecological stability with energy efficiency, with resource efficiency, with sustainability! we have started with this, and now in the crisis it must not be lost, it must not be given secondary importance. because these problems are not going to go away, they are going to persist or get worse. encourage your entire college to promote this eu environmental profile. the young people of europe will follow us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, i thank you for the clear statement on the community method. we should keep this in mind: the breach of the stability pact, the breach of schengen by countries like denmark, made one thing clear: it is the member states, not the council, that are breaking the rules. if we want to regain credibility in the markets, we have to play by the rules. those who are the potential sinners cannot do that. the community institutions must therefore be strengthened. i think that should be made clear to the public, not the other way around. thank you for that. the second point is that the council of ministers is increasingly turning to the european council when things get difficult. the european council of 17 is now to be set up. we have been fighting for 25 years in the european union for the majority vote in the council of ministers, and now we are reintroducing the principle of unanimity through the european council! the european council, the intergovernmental method, is not only the method of lack of democracy and lack of transparency, but also the method of inefficiency. we must also make this clear to the public, and i thank you for that. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the headline in a german newspaper today was: 'stabi-tiger now gets teeth, eu commission gets stronger in eurocontrol.' i have therefore been able to accept all the reports with a clear conscience, because that is precisely what has happened with regard to compliance with the deficits and the errors. the fact that we now have a semi-automatic sanction mechanism, that we are also monitoring macroeconomic imbalances from 2012, are important steps in the right direction. it could also be said that the european parliament has now done its homework, together with the commission, to stabilise the eurozone and the european union. what is lacking now is the active assistance of the member states. i would also ask the member states to join the concerted action and take decisions along the same lines.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am firmly convinced that the conclusions for a strategy must be drawn now, a strategy which will make europe as a whole stronger at the end, after the crisis, than before we entered it. the crucial question will be whether the instruments now adopted in the framework of the six-pack - particularly in the light of the reports by mrs wortmann-kool and mr feio - can really ensure such effective control. the compromise reached on the preventive part of the stability pact initially provides for two steps: on the one hand, the council votes by qualified majority on a commission recommendation concerning corrective measures in the budget of a member state. if this recommendation is not adopted or is not even considered, the commission can put it back on the table within a month. the proposal shall be deemed to have been adopted if the council has not rejected it within 10 days by a simple majority. i think that, in the light of this regulation, this is a step in the right direction. however, it remains to be seen whether member states will actually comply with these rigid requirements or whether they will try to circumvent them, as they did in 2003. we as a parliament must do everything we can to ensure that the community method really retains its primacy here and that we can effectively implement these rules in the end.
in writing. - we make regulations that bind states and taxpayers - citizens and societies! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the decisions we make will affect hundreds of millions of people in the years to come. they will lead to cuts in social spending, wages and pensions and will prevent the necessary investment in the future of our countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. but as long as these savings are seen as the answer to the financial crisis of recent years and the real causes of this crisis are not addressed, they are fatal, they hit the wrong people and they continue to deliver the public sector and public budgets to the still not adequately regulated world of financial speculation. the measures adopted are not the cure, but a continuation of the scandal which is leading to a massive shift: from taxpayers to banks, from the public to the private sector, from the pot of investment, culture and social welfare to the pockets of irresponsible financial agencies, from the real economy, from the productive workers and the performers to the underperformers, from the future to the past. we're putting our community at risk.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report because it provides a much better picture of the mechanisms and control functions of budgetary offenders and because it is ultimately also possible to impose sanctions. as part of the so-called six-pack, parliament is taking the right course here, which in principle also forces the council and the commission not to remain inactive.
in writing. − the analyses underlying this report - and the entire sixpack - are too weak. the measures taken are also important. it is true that monetary union is impossible without sound fiscal policies and sufficient economic convergence among its member countries. but it is also true that the current crisis was triggered when the governments and the ecb began to support with hundreds of billions of taxpayers' money banking institutions and financial agencies that had become unstable as a result of insane speculation. i am convinced that this has not ended the crisis, has not curbed speculation, but has only fuelled the fire. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. we cannot and will not win this race unless we create new and fair rules. these do not include the fact that speculative profits are made, but billions of dollars of losses are borne by the taxpayers. rather, these include, among others, debt restructuring with proportional waiver of creditors, reconciling risk and liability, separating commercial and investment banks and only rescuing the former (which they do not need), leaving casinos bankrupt, lifting capital requirements, limiting leverage, tightening regulation of financial markets and a financial transaction tax.
in writing. - the sixpack approach does not go deep enough. we are not short of money at the moment, but overflowing with it. only in the wrong place. by allowing unregulated speculative casinos, we have created incentives that help to ensure that today about 98% of the money in circulation in the world is not used for productive or consumer purposes, but for purely speculative purposes. these destructive "financial markets" - the term is actually a perversion in itself, since money cannot be a commodity, but only obtains its value by being linked to an actual value, the human capacity, a commodity or service - have long dominated the real, value-creating economy and increasingly also the states. that doesn't mean we can let them dictate our actions. reducing public debt is both sensible and necessary. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. otherwise, the measures taken will exacerbate the threat rather than effectively counteract it. every debt is a credit, every interest payment is a profit. the unimaginable profits of this irresponsible speculation are poured into the private pocket, the costs are borne by the community. we are only adding to this speculative spiral by granting unlimited guarantees on debt. without putting risk and liability back together, without cutting debt, without realizing losses for banks and investors, we cannot escape the crisis.
in writing. - we're cowards and paralyzed. staring at the financial markets like a rabbit at a snake. we let the markets dictate our actions, without understanding that they are only sham giants whose power is borrowed from us: borrowed from legislators who do not seriously and fearlessly fulfill their damned duty to regulate monetary and financial matters in a meaningful way by enacting appropriate legal orders. all measures are aimed at 'regaining the confidence of the markets'. but we are losing something much more important: the trust of the people whose money we are throwing into a bottomless pit with ever new promises, whose blood we are letting run for the exorbitant profits of multinational financial jugglers and whose decisions we regularly ignore. we are making decisions behind the backs of the citizens, without a substantive and result-oriented public debate, on a gigantic scale and with dramatic consequences for each individual for decades. citizens are degraded to powerless spectators. this cannot go unpunished. we are actually breeding the anger, frustration, political and european discontent that is corrupting our community. so i'm finding it increasingly difficult to make decisions like this. not that i don't have an opinion. i have a clear position. but that's not the scale. it is what the people of europe want. we should ask her.
in writing. − precisely because human rights are the basis and core of our work as the european parliament and because we vehemently combat any discrimination against people, we are particularly sensitive when these issues are misused for ideological purposes. that is why my colleagues from the csu, many other christian democrats and myself voted against this resolution and most of the red/red/green amendments. the basis of our position is the eu charter of fundamental rights, as well as the constitutions of the member states and christian values. marriage is and remains the permanent union of a man and a woman, who together with their children form a family. the charter of fundamental rights explicitly states that the definition of marriage and the family remains a matter for the member states. that is why issues such as same-sex partnerships and the like have no place in a human rights resolution, let alone their totally unacceptable equation with marriage.
in writing. - i rejected the report because it is one of the endless series of reports by well-meaning people which are well-read but have little to do with reality.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the needy do not need pity or cynicism, but the realization of their rights as citizens. we spoke yesterday in the same room about the human right to food security in developing countries, and today we have to deal with the fact that some governments - such as those of germany, denmark, the czech republic, sweden, the netherlands and the united kingdom - are deliberately curtailing this right by refusing to continue the 'free food' programme. 43 million people in the european union suffer from malnutrition, meaning that they cannot afford a full, balanced meal every other day. 19 million people depend on the 'free food' programme. the theme for the european year against poverty in germany in 2010 was 'with new courage'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food aid is not used as a means of financing the poor, but as a means of helping them to live in a more prosperous society.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. you, mr commissioner, and you, mr minister, and many member states have spoken in favour of continuing food aid for the needy. this requires, as we have heard, a political decision. the responsibility for this important issue lies primarily with the member states. it is unacceptable that people in europe do not have enough to eat. it is the social responsibility of the member states to ensure this. in germany there are laws that ensure adequate nutrition for all citizens. the judgment of the european court of justice has changed the framework of aid. there are strict limits on market purchases. the court of first instance found that the present programme, in its present form, did not comply with the legal basis of the treaties. i am aware that answers must be found to ensure that help is provided to millions of people in need in the eu. but i would stress once again that the responsibility for social policy lies with the member states. perhaps we should also consider whether it would not be better to set up programmes in the member states, rather than a european programme, which would be co-financed by our social area in brussels, so that food aid is guaranteed in all the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the epp group will certainly cooperate in finding solutions for those affected. i once saw it in brazil, when i was with a group of tourists, that young brazilians asked us to give them what was left on our plate. it was a shock to me to experience such things in a rich agricultural country. we must not allow europe to suffer from a situation where people do not have enough to eat.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. but i think the most important thing is to create jobs so that people can take care of themselves. i do not think that the food aid programme for the needy in its present form is the right way to help people help themselves. i call it charity, and that's not human. it seems to me relatively clear that the purchase of food and its free distribution to the needy is not an agricultural policy but a social policy. and under the current legal framework, social policy is a matter for the member states. in germany, there is the system of the boards. volunteers collect food that is no longer used by supermarkets, for example. given that 89 million tonnes of food end up in the garbage in europe every year, such initiatives make sense, but so does charity. let's create a reasonable infrastructure so that people don't have to rely on charity. that means, for example, independence through good work and good pensions.
a writer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european parliament strongly welcomes the convening of a un rio+20 conference. we are presenting to this house of commons a resolution sponsored by members of various political families in this house, which means that there is a very broad consensus in this house that this earth summit in brazil next year must be a success. if we look back 20 years to the first rio conference in 1992, there was an incredible commitment, an incredible amount of hope that we were going to be able to turn the tide in the economy of this planet earth. if you look at what's happened in the last 20 years, there's certainly been a lot of commitment, i'll tell you that. there's been a lot of things happening. but the trends, the megatrends, are still going in the wrong direction. if we look at the economy -- we talked a lot about this this morning -- we see that alongside the real economy, a financial economy has emerged that is much more powerful than the traditional economy, and that speculation in the financial economy threatens the real economy, and with it, entire countries, entire regions, many, many people. if you look at the development of the social sector over the last 20 years, there is immense wealth and, unfortunately, also immense poverty. the gap between rich and poor has widened. if we come to the field of ecology, then we must state: the ecological footprint of humanity on this planet earth is and remains negative. we've cleared vast areas of forest in the last 20 years. we've overfished the seas. we have used up energy resources that took millions of years to create. we've made the soil worse. so these are warning signs for this 21st century that tell us: this cannot go on. there must be a change. we really need to try sustainable development again. we need a fresh start in rio next year. we need a new political will, a new commitment. and we also need an agenda with concrete proposals. the need this is recognised is for better integration of these three pillars of economy, ecology and social development. economics is good and important, but economics must also serve people and the environment. an economy that destroys people, destroys the environment, is not a good economy. we need to redefine business in this larger context. parliament has made many proposals here on what is needed: the creation of the right framework conditions, regulation, but also market-based instruments which help to involve private capital in the economies of our countries, then the management of natural capital to prevent over-exploitation and to intervene when ecosystems are over-exploited. we also have the accounting of what we do in what we call gross domestic product, gdp. we know that gdp is no longer enough because it doesn't tell the whole truth about our activities in terms of ecology and social. so we think: the guiding theme for the next few years, for this decade, must be a sustainable economy, an economy that is low carbon, that is resource efficient. we know that there is no equitable access to resources in the world. we see that large areas of land are being bought up and in many countries, including africa, there is a danger that people will no longer be able to grow their food because there is land grabbing. this is a phenomenon we must address. we see that there is no access to energy everywhere. two billion people lack access to orderly and regular energy, a huge handicap for development. access to water is also unevenly distributed throughout much of the world. i just want to name these three. there are also other barriers where people just don't have access to resources because they're poor, because they're not privileged or underprivileged and so on. we need to shift the burden of taxation from the people to sustainable development. today, the bulk of the tax burden is on the work that is done, and it is clear: the tax burden must be reduced, from work to natural consumption, to energy consumption. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i 'll round it off . this sustainability requires a commitment from the local to the global level. civil society is a very important resource. people have to participate, and we have to engage them. the state has its role to play, but the private sector also has its role to play. we need to get the private sector to do even more to use the knowledge, the know-how for sustainability. at the global level, we simply need better governance, as they say, better structure to organize these ecological and sustainability trends. the question is also being discussed in rio whether unep is sufficient in its present form. the answer is clear: no. we need better structures at the global level. we in parliament hope that the eu will speak with one voice. we will be in durban with a delegation, and we will support that europe really sets a target here, that we are the frontrunners: an agenda 2020 for sustainable development on this planet earth.
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. indeed, sustainable development is perhaps the most important environmental issue of our time. twenty years later, we are on the eve of a very important conference, which, on the 20th anniversary of the first one, will try, first, to sum up all that has been done in the field of sustainable development. secondly, it will seek to identify new lines of action to achieve this development. i am sure that all of you, and many others who are interested in environmental issues, are asking the same question that i heard from president leinen: have we done everything we can to put sustainable development on the right track? my opinion is not the best. i think that while we've made some significant progress, we haven't done what we should have done. that is why i believe that the council has a very important task to do, to make sure that the european union is also a leader here as in other areas and to draw up an ambitious plan and ambitious conclusions for this important conference to be held next year. the themes of this conference are the green economy and institutional change, which are also very much needed. this is not, of course, the end of the sustainability issue, but the green economy is what - i can repeat after you, mr jo leinen - is absolutely necessary. how many times, even in developed countries, do we have this linear economy of extract, process, sell, use and throw away. this has to stop. earth cannot afford to waste resources like this. this is a very important element. it's not just a technological element, it's a consumer education element. a consumer who knows the value of resources, who knows the value of what the earth gives him, and who knows how to use it in such a way that, first, he saves energy and raw materials, and, second, he knows that he should recycle what he consumes. and all of this is what we're working on in the conclusions that we're working on right now. i would like to thank parliament very warmly for having this in mind when it adopted its document which is a support for us in our work. this is important to us because it makes this documentary better. the issue of institutional change is equally important, because we believe that the current un institution, unep, is not sufficient to meet the challenges facing the world today. we are in favour of the creation of a specialised un agency with a negotiated mandate and the ability to act more effectively in the field of sustainable development, among other things. this is very important. that doesn't mean we haven't touched on social issues, which is the third pillar of sustainability. this conference, which will be held in rio next year, is about the fight against poverty. and this is very important, because this social dimension, on the one hand, should counteract overconsumption, it should counteract this kind of economy that is happier the more people consume, but it should also take care of those of us, the inhabitants of the planet, who very often do not have the basic conditions for life. so the other side of this activity is also very important in this conference. ladies and gentlemen of the house! these things that i've briefly discussed here will be included in our conclusions that we're working on now. we are working on these issues at the moment, including financial issues. i have to say that the polish presidency has made these issues one of its priorities and in the next two weeks we are organising in poland the rio+20 conference, which will deal with these issues and at which we will discuss these issues. i want to thank you again for inviting me to this important session. i am thus fulfilling, in a way, the promise i made when i was on the environment committee hearing that i would try to speak to parliament often, speak to members. and it's not over yet. thank you very much, sir.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for this opportunity to outline the main objectives for the european union for the forthcoming united nations conference on sustainable development: rio+20. as you have probably noticed, in his speech this morning, the president outlined rio+20 as one of the major external action activities on which the commission will focus next year. i am also delighted that commissioner hedegaard is able to join me for this debate, particularly as she is a member of the united nations global sustainability panel and as i know that the resolution of this house particularly draws attention to the links with climate issues. i should also say that commissioner piebalgs is closely involved in the development of the european union position for the summit, in view of the development and poverty eradication aspects. rio+20 is a unique opportunity for the world, and for the european union, to advance its commitments on sustainable development through both themes which will be discussed there: firstly, the green economy in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication and secondly, the institutional framework for sustainable development. on the green economy, we need to be clear that this is a vehicle for delivering on sustainable development. it can secure growth and development and, at the same time, contribute to improving human well-being, providing decent jobs, tackling poverty and preserving natural capital. it offers opportunities for countries in all stages of economic development. building on the commission’s communication ‘rio+20: towards the green economy and better governance’, adopted in june, we are now working towards a consolidated european union position in time for the 1 november un deadline for international input. discussions with member states are still ongoing. our objective should be to make sure that rio+20 will give renewed political impetus to sustainable development through an ambitious vision, goals and tangible actions at both international and also national levels. any such vision and goals will have to be backed with tangible action. on the green economy we propose to focus on the efficient and sustainable management of resources and natural capital: water, renewable energy, oceans, sustainable agriculture and fishing, and materials and chemical management. this reflects the approach we set out in the resource efficiency roadmap, as part of the eu 2020 strategy, which the commission adopted last week. the enabling conditions for the transformation towards a green economy in these areas can be established through the right kinds of regulatory and market conditions, mobilising public and private financial resources and also investing in capacity building. we envisage that a green economy roadmap should map out all actions undertaken at international level with specific time frames to ensure commitment well into the future. as a complement to international actions and commitments, national actions would depend on national circumstances and could be supported with measures such as best practice examples and policy guidelines. examples of specific international actions include the strengthening and expanding of the european union water initiative, including new agreements on the law of the sea, particularly in areas beyond national jurisdiction, and establishing an international regime on chemicals. to monitor progress it will be essential to develop indicators and a globally agreed system of economic, environmental and social accounting. through such concerned actions the sustainable management of resources in key sectors such as water, energy, oceans and forests can become the thrust of future economic growth and global markets. the sectors we propose underpin the livelihoods of many and are, particularly in developing countries, linked to basic subsistence. access to water, food and energy are some of the basic human needs that must be met to alleviate poverty. please do not imagine that resource efficiency is only a concern for developed countries. it is also of crucial importance for the sustainable development of developing countries. last but not least, to reinforce global sustainable development and environmental governance through institutional reform is also essential. strengthening sustainable development governance could be achieved by the reinforcement of ecosoc in the united nations or the establishment of a council on sustainable development. these are the potential ways forward and we need to enhance the un environment programme, possibly by upgrading it into a specialised agency. as i stated clearly in the plenary of the european economic and social committee last week, rio will also have to establish means for greater participation of business and civil society. i absolutely hope and count on your strong support and your presence in rio. i would like to apologise that i will have to leave the house before we conclude the debate because i have to catch the flight to amsterdam and berlin. on saturday morning i am flying to new delhi in india. we will have the preparatory ministerial meeting for rio+20, where we will discuss precisely the issues which we are discussing together today and a part of our agenda. i want us to show via the european presence that we want to be active in all stages and also on all levels. finally, as i mentioned, last week we adopted the resource efficiency roadmap, which i hope will be supported by the council and the parliament. actually i do not doubt this after hearing both of the speakers before me, because many of the things which you both mentioned are indeed part of the substance of that resource efficiency roadmap. in a way it is also the roadmap to the green economy. so via that we would become a real, credible partner internationally, because we would show that we know how we have to clean up our own house in a way that shows how the work should be done in the future.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for the opportunity to share some views also from the side of global climate policy and how to position the european union best in the run-up to the rio conference on sustainable development. firstly, let me share a few points from the work of the global sustainability panel, established by ban ki-moon with the very clear view that we should give some recommendations for the rio+20 conference. the panel will have its last meeting in december and will publish its recommendations by the middle of january, in time hopefully to make an impact on the rio+20 process. sustainable development as defined by the brundtland commission in 1987 and as agreed in rio in 1992 was never truly realised. patterns of growth and consumption are by and large the same as before. unfortunately, emerging economies did not learn enough from the mistakes made by us, the developed countries – the principle of grow first and clean up later – but this cannot be a growth strategy for the 21st century. instead we need political leadership to set a new growth agenda: growth, yes – but the important question will be ‘what kind of growth?’ it must be a growth that includes environmental and social concerns at the same level as economic ones. new indicators of growth, way beyond gdp, are necessary. we need to measure well-being of people and preservation of nature, and of course this agenda must appeal equally to developed and developing countries. the world must also move away from the old north-south paradigm. we must move towards a paradigm of mutual interdependence. interdependence in a globalised world is a strong driver for change. it is linked to population growth and growing resource scarcity. business as usual will take this planet beyond its natural boundaries with catastrophic effects. we need science to guide political decisions on all environmental boundaries. a call for urgency must come out of rio. the focus of the panel’s work has been the interlinked nexus of energy, food and water, with climate change as an overarching theme. the world community has already been mobilised on climate change. climate change is still there and is also there in the minds of the people. it is important that we do not change from one topic to another. it is still the overarching theme and how we address it – and that we address it globally – is still decisive for what kind of world we will have in this 21st century. so climate change must still be an overarching theme. to the very relevant points made by mr potočnik i would just add two other points for emphasis, first on energy. eliminating energy poverty is a precondition to eradicating poverty. in the panel we therefore consider targets for access to energy, for sustainable energy and for renewable energy sources. at the same time, the global energy system – supply, transformation, delivery and use – is the dominant contributor to climate change, representing around 60% of total current greenhouse gas emissions. i am glad to see highlighted in the parliament’s resolution that the transition towards a green economy requires a radical transformation of the energy sector. i think this is absolutely crucial and i actually believe this is one of the areas where hopefully rio+20 can deliver a very specific recommendation that can lead to immediate action. this of course requires concerted and coordinated effort, but i think it is very important that we in europe push in this direction. let me just mention a second point. part of the reason for the inadequate progress on sustainability is evident: there is a significant market failure that we must correct, namely inadequate pricing. the negative consequences of the way we exploit nature and the environment are not usually visible or immediate. this must be corrected. their externality and invisibility allows the end user often to remain ignorant of this kind of cost related to our growth, so the price signals to the markets and consumers today are flawed. to change this, people, corporations and governments must be made aware of the full effects of their choices. in other words, we need to price things in a way that reflects the true costs. internalisation of the external effects means factoring in the consequences, thereby making them a part of the decision-making process. this means introducing market-based instruments such as taxes, charges and emission trading, in order to give economic incentives to limit external effects. i think this pricing issue should also be a very prominent issue for rio+20. i think that with these things – access to sustainable energy and the pricing issue – among a lot of other recommendations in rio, we could deliver something that would result in immediate action when we come back from rio because, with many of the other things, we all know that it will take a very long time before we see them in the real world. here are some tangible things that could lead to immediate action. i think it is very important also to focus on that.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i was in rio in 1992 as a young member of parliament and i followed very closely what we decided then and what we actually did. mr president-in-office, you have said many right things, including that we need to promote a green economy in europe, but also worldwide. but, commissioner, we must start in europe. i think that the commission has a duty to take account of the fact that the waste is still being disposed of in eastern european countries, and that in other, more developed countries, it is being incinerated and burned in a careless way. fortunately, you have also indicated that we are working very intensively on one of these three pillars. the question of poverty has been raised by mr leinen. i would like to return to the triangle of social, economic and environmental issues. it's still too separate in our country and in the world. it's like trains running on a track, and somewhere there's a crash, and then there's an unfortunate end result. i think we must find the strength to put these trains on the rails together in parallel in order to reach common conclusions. then there won't be this unnecessary fight. when we have nine billion people on this planet in 2050, there is no alternative to sustainability at all. and therein lies our opportunity in western europe not only to develop elegant technology but to sell it worldwide. that would be one of my biggest concerns. commissioner, when you win an election, you have to fight for the next election the next day. and that's how we have to do it at the un. we've talked about how we don't like the structures. you're right about that. that is the case in europe too, and we have had a very long discussion on that this morning. the structures at the un are very nice, but they are not functioning. we must start changing the structures immediately after this conference and we must at some point turn away from this principle of unanimity. we have heard this morning that those who fight for something like this very often have no good intentions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it seems pointless to me, but i would like to extend an invitation to him. i have never seen him at the rio talks or at any other major world conference, but i have always heard him speak here in the plenary. i would like to ask you, mr president, to join the committee. sit down with us, offer your proposals, and then we'll talk to you about the word messages. the contribution you have just made is not going to do anything.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i give my colleagues the right: the workers who are made redundant are the ones who suffer from the crisis. that is why we greens have so far approved all the proposals from the member states. the eu funds measures to prevent longterm unemployment. however, we believe that in future applications for which these measures are not defined in the context of social dialogue should no longer be accepted. we greens also criticise the use of the financial instrument to encourage workers to accept contracts below their current wage level. this is especially offered to older workers. even if this is a slap in the face from their point of view, because they cannot get the pigeon on the roof, it is not in the interests of social europe in my view, because in the end they are worse off and have a lower level of pay. in addition, we have repeatedly seen cases where the social plan of companies is practically taken over by the eu, especially in the traditional car industry. it is the biggest beneficiary of this indirect eu aid. we believe that this instrument should be reoriented. it should not be a way of plugging financial holes, but a strategic approach to sustainability. it should invest in green jobs, in the transformation to a green economy, so that it is really a sustainable investment. we also do not believe that this firefighting intervention by the european union is really doing anything and that eu money is investing sustainably. we believe that this is a fire-fighting action for competitive losers, also in the sense of a transformation to an ecological economy. we therefore need much more intervention by the european social fund in future-oriented training, in training, so that redundancies can be prevented and our economy can be transformed into an ecological one and thus become a global competitive winner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the globalisation fund was set up to deal with the consequences of globalisation and its negative effects. but perhaps we should remember once again that globalization is here, it will stay, and it is irreversible. in this respect, it is much more intelligent to create structural adjustments in the labour market. at the same time, however, the fund has been used to compensate for the relocation of companies within europe and has now been extended as a fundamental exception to the crisis we are in. the present proposals for a resolution, which we can support to a large extent - and i assess this above all from the budgetary point of view and not from the point of view of the employment committee - are moving in a sensible direction. but seriously, when i see an amendment which wants to reduce the co-financing rate of the member states to 5%, i wonder what incentive there is to adapt one's own labour market if one can benefit from it. or the demand that companies then have to create jobs! seriously, i don't think anyone assumes that companies like to lay off employees so they can get money from the fund to re-hire them. we are not the european employment agency in this matter either. i have one last point to make. the multiannual financial perspective provides that in future the european globalisation adjustment fund may and should be used for the agricultural sector. i wonder if we have agriculture in chapter 1 as one of the largest budgetary items, which is not possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. how often have people been promised that they would be lifted out of difficult social situations, out of poverty and exclusion! since 2006, there has been concrete assistance the european globalisation adjustment fund, which helps redundant people to find a job again. initially, it intervened when at least 1 000 employees of a company and its subcontractors were unemployed. the maximum duration is 12 months. due to the continuing economic problems, the criteria were extended in 2009. the fund will be effective for 500 employees, the duration of egf projects has been extended to 24 months - rightly so - and the maximum co-financing rate has been increased from 50% to 65%, all valid until the end of this year. as labour markets have not yet recovered in many member states, we want to extend the period until the end of 2013 - not for firefighting missions, for example, but for sustainability. the egf is intended to help workers and not enterprises, as is often misinterpreted. the workers are helped by reintegration into the professions, by retraining, by continuing training - i call this a european added value. but one thing is unacceptable: that the egf is constantly being funded by the esf, the european social fund, because it is indispensable for the maintenance of local employment societies, for the fight against school drop-outs, for the achievement of diplomas and qualifications. let us not play the esf and the egf against each other!
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission is aware of the importance of electricity costs for the production of steel, and of the influence that european climate change measures can have on electricity costs. the commission is also mindful of the present difficult economic situation and of the importance of sustaining the economic recovery with smart measures, taking into account the move towards less polluting as well as less risky sources of energy. the commission aims to maintain a viable energy-intensive industry in the eu that can compete worldwide on its merits. state aid can help in this context, if it helps to structurally improve the competitiveness of the industry in a sustainable way, but it cannot serve to guarantee lower electricity costs for certain users in the long term. we therefore focus our efforts on measures that have the potential to structurally improve the situation of industry. under the ets directive, which was part of the 2008 climate change package, member states may grant compensation for co2 costs of electricity for companies at risk of carbon leakage due to these costs – aid for indirect emission costs – in accordance with state aid rules. financial compensation for indirect emissions can create major distortions in the internal market and may undermine the price signals created by the eu ets if it is not properly targeted to sectors that are at real risk of carbon leakage due to indirect co2 costs. in its statement submitted to the council during the climate change package negotiations, the commission established the guiding principles for granting financial support for indirect emission costs. according to these principles, financial compensation should be limited to those electricity-intensive sectors which are unable to pass on the electricity cost increase stemming from co2 to their customers through product prices without significant loss of market share, and would thus move to less carbon-efficient installations outside the eu. in defining the rules for compensation for ‘indirect’ carbon leakage, the commission will have to pay careful consideration to the effective need and justification for aid in view of the need to preserve the internal market, avoid ‘subsidy races’ between member states at a time of tight budget constraints and ensure equitable conditions for competition between firms in the same sectors.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. i thank you for the basic points. however, these basic remarks do not answer the questions that have been raised. the questions are aimed at this: is it guaranteed that we will also get results quickly? the industries which we want to save from these additional burdens or where we want to create fair conditions need planning certainty. we therefore need decisions soon. we need quick decisions, reliable decisions and clear statements from the commission. this process has been going on for a long, long time. we all knew that it was a very complicated procedure that we were embarking on, but we also said at the time in the compromise on the emissions trading directive: we will do this with the emissions trading directive on the condition that the industries in europe which are burdened by the fee can experience relief, because otherwise they cannot compete with other parts of the world. i expect that what was then the basis of the business, the basis for decisionmaking in parliament, with the council and the commission, will also be implemented in this way. i'm a little concerned that as the circle of those affected gets smaller and smaller, that you're -- i might say this once -- getting smaller and smaller in the sense that you're excluding more and more areas. it is not just about steel, it is about aluminium - you know that - it is about many other areas such as chemistry and so on and about the fact that what was the political basis of the decision at the time was simply not put into practice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a whole new situation, we have a much bigger competitive situation. we are all fighting for this and we are declaring here in our speeches on sunday that industry is a very important sector for the future development of europe. we heard some wise words yesterday. i expect - parliament expects - that what was agreed then will now be implemented, for the benefit of the industries - no, not the industries, but the people who work in these companies, the jobs, and thus also the future prospects of europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank mr pirillo for putting this on the agenda, because we have no direct powers on this subject, but we have to keep the commission going. but it's not just electric steel - herbert reul said this - there are a whole range of industries that are at risk of carbon leakage. i would like to mention the aluminium and chemical industries, for example, which must also benefit from this aid. i emphasize 'must' because that is what the directive says. the problem is not the emissions trading directive, and certainly not the amended one, because in the existing one, which runs until 2012, we do not have this provision. now we have explicitly stated in the new emissions trading directive that companies that are at risk of carbon leakage will receive support for direct and indirect emissions. that is why the commission must put it into practice. the problem is not the text of the directive - it is even better because we now have this possibility of compensation which we did not have before - but that the commission now has to get to work. we also need a clear aid framework which is transparent. otherwise there are hidden subsidies in different member states and even more distortions of competition. i 'll make this very clear . some companies are eager to get it. they are already losing money, or at least not making any profit, because the energy companies have charged a premium for the allowances, even though they were distributed free of charge. if we do not give these companies a light at the end of the tunnel by 2013 by giving them aid, they may make decisions that we as a european business centre will not like. we need to look at it differently depending on the electricity mix of the member states. there must be no overcompensation, but there must also be no undercompensation, and we must point out again and again that we have the benchmarks. it's just about compensating the top 10% of companies. that is an incentive to be efficient and the commission must put it into practice now.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much for the presentation, commissioner. you said that in this case the motion had largely met all the demands of parliament. i do not think that is the case, and i do not think that all the private rights of passengers are actually respected. that is why we have just tabled a request for an oral reply. it is true - mr de grandes pascual told us - that we had a report on this and that we defined the scanner that could be used as an additional security measure at airports. and we also said that you have to be able to decide voluntarily whether you want to go through or not. health and human dignity must be protected, data and privacy must be protected. the fact is that we did not want exactly what has just been proposed. we didn't want to have scanners that show real images, whether they're blurry or not. i know these images, i've been to the united states, i've seen these scanners. i do not want this to be introduced at european airports. these are really scanners where you can see a relatively large part of a person's body. it doesn't matter to me whether someone sitting in another room can see this without seeing this person in reality or not. it's an invasion of intimacy and privacy, and we've explicitly discussed that that's exactly what we don't want. it is now, however, in the commission's document that this should be allowed in practice for the implementation of our decision. we are very concerned about this, and we ask you to reconsider. there's the possibility of just having stick figures, as they call it, so schematic drawings, either a green ok or a stick figure with red dots, that you should examine, for example, the arm because something suspicious was indicated. this is really something we want, without storage. it protects privacy and data. we are very surprised and disagree that something different is being proposed now, and if something different is really to be established and is being considered, then we need a legislative process. it is about the citizens of europe, and then the representatives of the citizens must also be involved in a proper procedure.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. body scanners are placebos. look up on wiki, it means a placebo is a fake medicine that does not contain a drug and therefore does not have a pharmacological effect. in fact, for example, a ten-month trial in germany showed that body scanners are less safe than conventional methods and therefore failed. welding stains were flagged as a safety hazard, paper towels as a hazard. false alarms up to 100% have been reported. there's no body scanner in the world that can analyze openings or the inside of a body. objects hidden in it cannot be found. you shouldn't judge terrorists as more stupid than they are. where body scanners were used as a standard, it was not success that increased, but abuse. let's look at the united states. there was a woman who had to remove her breast prosthesis as evidence after the scan. in britain, two women refused to be scanned for religious or health reasons and were not allowed to fly. the most embarrassing body controls are available as alternatives in various countries. in future, the risk of abuse is likely to increase considerably, simply because the transport committee has decided - as i have already said - that real body representations are possible. yeah, that means i can see the real outlines. there are already cases of harassing remarks that have increased, and this is a human rights problem. placebo comes from the latin word for "i will be pleased". the only ones who might be interested are the leading body scanners that manufacture and sell this junk.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, you have just said that you want to protect privacy but you want to avoid monopoly structures. do you really think that the way the european market works, if you want to have something on the market, for example a certain type of scanner, that it will be just one company making it? do you not think that there will be several companies producing this, just to be able to compete in the market?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr tavares, can you think of any example which would actually justify the expenditure of many millions - yes, billions - to develop these body scanners? are there any examples that prove that this has increased security?
mr president, i want to make a clarification on paragraph 8 because the formulation is misleading. it reads now in the old text ‘is concerned about the focus given to the green economy as one of the two main themes of the rio summit’ – ‘is concerned’ seems to be negative, so it should be ‘concerning the focus given to the green economy as one of the two main themes of the rio summit’. this is my oral amendment, not ‘is concerned’, but ‘concerning’. this is not negative, we want the green economy. that is the explanation to the greens who asked me whether this is positive or negative – it is positive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make two comments on the european parliament's resolution on the future of the european fund. the first comment: i am a passionate supporter of this european fund, because it is designed to help us, if we have problems of adaptation to globalisation, to help us locally and to help us restore people's faith in globalisation by offsetting the economic disadvantages that globalisation creates. the second point is that i am not one of the sceptics who say that we must now include a specific budget heading for this fund, because i believe that disasters cannot be planned. i see the very great danger that if we have planned a budget title like this and the money is not used up, then money is distributed and the disaster is practically organised. i am therefore in favour of this, but on the other hand a certain degree of scepticism seems to be the right middle ground.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that most of the members of our european parliament are in the middle on this issue, that is to say, they are on the side of the people. of course, one can argue whether it is convenient that palestine has just now submitted a request for the independence of a nation to the un council. on the other hand, i also understand the concern that people have about negotiations going on for decades and not coming to a conclusion. what we need now above all is confidence-building measures, and these are never unilateral but must come from both sides. i am now expecting clear signals from israel itself. let us not be fooled, the current settlement policy in israel is neither helpful nor effective in this respect.
in writing. - i am 100% behind the resolution by andrew duff. it is important and right to draw attention to the situation of the people of western sahara. the moroccan authorities must provide information on the extent to which their economic activities in respect of the natural resources in the territory of western sahara are in the interests of the people of the territory and in accordance with their wishes. the international legal status of the area must be clarified. a judgment by the court of justice on the territory of western sahara would bring clarity to relations between the european union and the kingdom of morocco. however, this resolution comes at the wrong time. if adopted, the resolution would have de facto blocked the eu fisheries agreement with morocco, as it expires on 28 february 2012 and it is unlikely that the ecj would have delivered a judgment before that date. if this resolution had been adopted, it would have sent the wrong signal to our moroccan partners. morocco is the only country in north africa which has succeeded in introducing democratic reforms by peaceful means. this process should not be disturbed.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the president of the commission's speech made it quite clear that the european union has a clear picture: there are the community institutions, whose convictions are broadly in line. i can only say that what mr barroso has proposed and presented - and i repeat this - reflects the will of the overwhelming majority of this house. this means that the community institutions are coming together. this is not the case with the other side - the government institutions, i.e. the council and the european council. the situation is not such that we need solutions by christmas, mr daul, but we need solutions now! because the situation in the european union is so dramatic that we have to do two things at the same time: we must keep in mind the stabilisation of the economic situation in the vulnerable and the still stable countries of the european union, and we must at the same time understand that the lisbon treaty cannot be the end of european integration, but that it is an intermediate step, and that we need further communisation of policy areas, otherwise we will create another serious democratic deficit. it is quite clear that if we leave the decisions on our currency, our economic and financial policy, budgetary policy and fiscal policy in general to this permanent vienna congress, which calls itself the european council, where the powerful men of europe go to brussels and meet behind closed doors to tell the astonished people what they have failed to do again, this cannot be the europe of efficiency, of the confidence of the markets and of the confidence of the citizens! this fragmented europe, where each head of government sticks to the tactical lines of his national parliamentarians, this europe will not strengthen the euro! that's why we need communities. when you quote article 136 with the commission and the council, mr president, we want to be involved in this as a parliament in the future. whatever executive action there is in europe, parliament wants to be involved. that is why we need to change the contract! (applause from the centre) people are going crazy about their governments that's the headline in today's trade paper. governments drive people crazy. it is your party friend jean-claude juncker who says so. and he's right, you know? every day a new idea, but no solutions. now we have to recapitalize the banks. three years ago, we also had to recapitalise the banks. then we said, "but under control and with unbundling", as now with dexia, "investment banking and traditional banking must be unbundled". nothing's happened in three years! we have discussed the question of capital provisions in the balance sheets for risk capital - nothing has happened! we are in a situation where, three years after the worst banking crisis, we have to recapitalise the banks again, without the necessary regulations having been created in the meantime. and this is a situation where people are really going crazy. because, mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is absolutely clear: banks are too big to fail, and individual states are not important enough to save them! this is the reality of the european union! the ordinary citizen and his state are unimportant, capitalist societies are everything! i'm going to quote an expert: that's why people are going crazy about their governments: taking taxpayers' money, giving it to the banks, and the shareholders making money. if the taxpayer pays, then he's a shareholder too! the banks have to pay part of their profits to the state budget. this is my old-fashioned view of things. says jean-claude juncker, prime minister of luxembourg! and the commission president says: "we need the financial transaction tax". angela merkel and nicolas sarkozy are not going to get them to turn. that's why we don't have time until christmas, that's why we have to act now! so i want to be very clear: we hope that the courage you have shown here in this house twice will be shown in the council on 23 october. and then i wished you'd come to us and report back. but i heard you're in china for the eu-china summit and can't make it. and mr van rompuy will be with you shortly, he is also flying and cannot come. i guess mr. tusk can't make it either. i don't know what you three are telling the chinese, maybe it's always the same thing everything has been said, just not by everyone yet. perhaps you can tell mr van rompuy that he can come, because if mr tusk and mr barroso are there, that is enough. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore asking the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further aggravated by the threat of war. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i'd like to speak to colleague number 314. the referenda are, as far as i know, binding in certain countries. i think the country you represent here needs to hold a referendum. i would therefore recommend that you read yesterday's newspapers in your home country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. i have learned that 40% of uk exports go to the eurozone and that is why mr cameron wants the eurozone to be stabilized as a matter of urgency. (applause from the centre) so we say: mr cameron, we are stabilising the eurozone and you are fighting in the referendum for a yes to the treaty changes.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr barroso, the honourable presidency of the council! in view of the fact that today, after three years of debating ways and policies to overcome the crisis, we must admit that we are deeper in the crisis than we admitted in the summer of this year, we must once again analyse what our common european mistakes have actually been and how we have come to this point. i think that a proper analysis of errors is the best way to improve our performance in the future. i would like to recall a situation which has been typical for me in the crisis management of the european union, and in particular of the european council. i will not forget that josef ackermann, the head of deutsche bank, and mr baudouin prot, the head of bnp paribas, were directly involved in the council's deliberations at a very crucial moment in july this year. i believe that before we go on to the next bank rescue, we must agree, and this is the european parliament as a whole, that we must not do this on the basis of false advice. these phantoms of capital must not be the ones to decide how we re-regulate the banking sector. that's my keynote speech today. we are talking in the new european language about recapitalisation of the banking sector. in my opinion, we have only kept the banks alive, and have not really saved any of them. in particular, we have not saved a single country in the european union in the crisis of recent years. so before we go on to the second bank rescue, the question is, at what cost do we want to do this? i am firmly convinced that these costs should be low because they are borne by the taxpayers. i believe that we must combine recapitalisation with the greatest possible control of these banks. in germany, there is talk of intelligent nationalisation. this should be regulated at european level. one thing must be clear, when we give the money back, then the party for those who make the money in the banking sector must be over. i have not heard any announcement yet of a genuine european regulation of the recapitalisation of these banks. dexia is a name which, to me, represents the failure of european policy in the banking sector. dexia has passed the stress test without any problems. if i'm correct, dexia would also be happy to abide by any new rules you propose. any obstacle due to the rules we are now planning for 2013 would be removed by dexia. we must make a correction here, mr barroso. this is also true of the european parliament. a hard debt brake for the banks, that must be, and not after 2019. binding liquidity rules, that too must be, even if this means that we in the european parliament are suddenly not as united as we were when we voted on the community method. what is the future of the banking sector in europe? we think he needs to shrink. how many sick big banks can we afford in the long run? we don't think we'll have as many as we have today. we must ensure that banks are again service providers to the real economy and that they are not the ones who primarily make profits through speculation. that too is something for us to decide. i see and know that we are more in agreement on this on one side of the house than in this house as a whole. the resolution we have today is a good one, but we shall have to debate the fine print some more. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the situation has become more acute since the last debates on the situation in the european union in this parliament. i would like to say that none of the proposals has been taken up and implemented. it's a little bit of a stretch, i'll give you that. that may be our problem. we are far from a comprehensive solution. it seems that the financial market players are saying that we do not have to take this all seriously, we are just going to continue as before. and they're playing as usual. the interest rates on greek, spanish and italian bonds are still being bet on, and the rating agencies, caught up in conflicts of interest, are playing down the credit rating of spain and italy. the european banks, whose undercapitalisation is a growing risk, such as dexia bank, are also increasingly targeted. the people of greece, portugal, spain are organizing mass protests against the red tape to reduce public spending. unemployment, the situation of young people and austerity measures are a burden which is borne mainly by the citizens and almost never by the people who are responsible for the crisis, namely the players in the unregulated financial markets. there is increasingly no trust in the institutions of europe in our member states. this week, participants in a march from spain, the indignados, are here in brussels. they want to express their protest against the consequences of the policy of privatization and liberalization which has led to the growth of markets. this movement of discontent is spreading to all those countries which are shifting the burden of the crisis onto the shoulders of the common people. the obvious failure of neoliberal policies does not only affect financial markets, but it also shows that the gamble of rising and falling prices has long since reached other areas, such as the world agricultural market or the commodity markets. the very functioning of the real economy is in danger, because few large international firms can cope with the extreme fluctuations in an economically sound manner. we have reached the situation of the hare and the hedgehog, although we often talk about it, where the market players in the form of the hedgehog proudly proclaim 'ick bün all hier'. i think that if we are to take ourselves seriously, we must also be careful to discuss the consequences of the debates. i find that from my point of view nothing substantial has changed. if the sensible proposals made here, including those made by mr barroso, cannot be implemented, then it is truly tragic. that is the crucial criticism i would like to make.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sorry about that. i have been informed by the council that i have wronged mr van rompuy. i'd like to correct that. i have just criticised mr van rompuy for not coming next week because he is going to the china summit. the fact is that the european council summit was due to take place last sunday and has been postponed to 23 october. that is to say, mr van rompuy is not to blame for this. it is logical that he cannot cancel the china summit and come to parliament when the actual date on which he was supposed to inform parliament has been postponed by 14 days. since i always criticise mr van rompuy - and i will continue to criticise him, not personally, but because i think the office of president of the council is wrong, it should be combined with that of president of the commission - because i always do, but i want to be fair when i criticise him, and he has not deserved it, i want to correct that here in public.
mr schulz, it was not exactly a blue card question that you raised. you used a tool to say something else. anyway, that's a fair clarification on your part.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! we should get back to focusing on what our job is here. i've now heard eight speakers and eight recipes. that shows the problem we have here in the house. i am glad that the council is more united and that we can bring things together more quickly than the many recipes we have heard from the various political groups. if we are to be clear about one thing, it is that we must work together to clean up what the member states have so far prevented. the americans have found it easy to make european regulations because they have found institutions at the level of the united states. we had to work together to get it done, and we did it together as a parliament, even against the opposition of the united kingdom, for example. we have shown in the strengthening of the stability and growth pact with the governance package that we are able to act here and strengthen europe so that it works. but, mr president of the commission, i am also very critical. we do not need to discuss accelerated procedures now when there are no proposals from the commission on a large number of regulatory needs. we are waiting for financial market regulation, we are waiting for the market abuse directive, to name just two, which will probably not be proposed until next week. we cannot pass anything that is not even on the table! that is why i am asking the commission to take things forward. it was all planned for the first half of this year! and now it's october! you cannot accuse parliament of not doing its job. we are doing our best to find solutions. so please, put it forward and we will vote on it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i must say that the commission has never been so quick to meet the wishes of the liberal group. the president of our group has just asked for the written documents on what is to be proposed in detail here, and here they are. we asked for this because i wanted to make sure that i understood it correctly. the commission's proposals, which i think are really excellent, are resolutely far-reaching: deciding a sustainable solution for greece within the euro area, through an effective second adjustment programme. we need a sustainable solution for greece within the eurozone by making greece's debt sustainable. in other words, this is the famous haircut, this is the bankruptcy, if you will, the solvency. that's exactly where we were. we have been accused of being populists for a few weeks now when we said that greece would need to cut its debt to get out of the crisis. the commission rightly links this to robust implementation and monitoring mechanisms. and that's right, too. we want solidarity, we want to keep greece in the euro zone, but we also want solidarity and we want to monitor this solidarity, because solidarity cannot be a one-way street. this is absolutely important to us. i am glad that the european debate is now moving in this direction. i am also pleased that our position, which has long been confirmed by all the experts, is now being confirmed in the political sphere. it always warms my heart to hear our tory colleague, timothy kirkhope, call for strong european solutions to recapitalize the banks. i always think of things like national sovereignty and the united kingdom and its special role. but i am glad that there are occasions when london also thinks that europe is useful. i would like to see more of that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm glad to hear that, too. the spectacle of the last few days has made it quite clear that unanimity is a blocking instrument. we need majority decisions also for the stabilisation of the euro. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at least in the interpretation, it wasn't phrased as a question. i am happy to answer them, however. no, solidarity between the member states of the european union and the euro area places a great deal of demands on us, including on our electorate. but we are prepared to do so because we want a union of stability for europe, and in that union of stability, solidarity is a two-way street. that means we're prepared to take those guarantees. as regards the banking question, i am as unhappy as anyone who looks closely at the banking sector. in fact, much of what was done before the crisis is being continued. however, one thing is clear: without a functioning banking sector, we cannot develop a growth strategy in europe. so what we've done now -- paying the next tranche to greece, organizing a haircut that doesn't completely destroy the banking sector -- is also necessary for us to grow out of the crisis through economic growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking bulgaria and romania for the impressive efforts they have made, not only in complying with the technical details of the schengen agreement but also in taking very concrete measures at their borders to secure the external borders towards the european union. the claim that only minor technical details were met here is simply false. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think that is being grossly underestimated here. secondly, the issue of corruption is raised again and again, and so is the issue of organised crime. i think it is right to raise these issues and i think it is also right to take a massive action against corruption and organised crime within the schengen area. but it is wrong to blame bulgaria and romania alone. we already have considerable problems in these areas within the schengen countries. i therefore urge that in this context, and also in relation to the protection of the external borders, an evaluation of the schengen acquis be carried out within all the member states, because it is necessary to ensure that all schengen states comply with the acquis and not just those who want to join. we need a lasting guarantee, not just short-term claims against two member states.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, thank you very much for the opportunity to come again to the parliament. it was only two weeks ago in strasbourg that we discussed the situation in our southern neighbourhood and we felt that sense of impatience and uncertainty, that real change does takes time and we know it will be measured in years and not in seasons. but we also recognised the importance of our continuing support and tonight we will focus on egypt, syria, yemen and bahrain where the latest events remind us of what we were saying two weeks ago. let me begin with egypt and start by being absolutely clear that what we saw in egypt on sunday night was totally unacceptable. we were all shocked and appalled by the violence against a peaceful demonstration by the coptic christian community that led to the death of 25 people, with more than 300 injured. these clashes run contrary to the whole spirit and goals of the revolution and the aspirations of all egyptians – of all backgrounds and beliefs. they stood side by side asking for legitimate human rights after 30 years of authoritarian rule. the egyptian uprising belongs to the whole population of egypt. protection of human rights is essential. i believe that is the only way to ensure that we are going to have true democracy. i made a statement calling for calm and restraint and an investigation so that those responsible for the violence can be brought to justice. i urged and i urged the authorities to protect the right to demonstrate peacefully, and the right to freedom of religion or belief – one of the most fundamental of all human rights. yet the worst thing now would be for these tragic events to stand in the way of democracy. on the contrary we have to learn these lessons fast. sunday’s events should encourage the government and the ruling military council to investigate, to listen, to review the emergency law and to step up the dialogue with political representatives ahead of elections. our delegation met today with representatives from the al-azhar university and mosque who can play a very important role in the dialogue between different communities. as we have said before in this house, egypt faces its first opportunity to hold free and fair elections and we will work to help the judges and poll workers in the management of the upcoming parliamentary elections later this year. we will continue to work both on the process towards democracy and in the relaunch of the economy. turning to the example of the task force in tunisia last week, here we were able to bring together the international community – european institutions, members of this house, member states, the european investment bank, the bank for reconstruction and development, multilateral financial institutions and, crucially, private sector companies – making sure that together we become a catalyst for quicker and more effective assistance; in tunisia in this case, but important of course across the region. we were able to pull together a package of eur 4 billion over three years for tunisia. we plan to do the same in other countries in the region where that collaborative approach can make a significant difference to the economic opportunities in those countries: jordan, egypt, and other countries too. i hope too that we will be able to do something for syria in the near future, where the situation remains totally unacceptable and where we must continue pressure on the regime – bilaterally and internationally. you have noted our sanctions and their gradual expansion to include oil exports – even now additional sanctions are under preparation. you will have also seen our efforts in the un security council and in the human rights council. member states worked hard in the security council to try to get a resolution but were unable to achieve that. i believe we have to redouble our efforts and i will be raising our concerns with our strategic partners, the united states and china, over these coming next few days. there is no sign, of course, in syria of the regime abandoning violence and repression and the risk of spiralling violence and sectarian rifts is very real. the recent incidents of targeted killings confirm this danger. that is why the unity of the people and the new political leaders on the ground is essential. we welcome all efforts by the syrian opposition to come together. the creation of the syrian national council is encouraging. inclusiveness, commitment to non-violence, human rights and democratic values are essential in that process. i believe this parliament is unique in what it can offer to promote those values and is well placed to offer a forum for dialogue. we should also seek to associate arab countries in all of our efforts. we will remain steadfast and determined to support the people of syria. our sanctions are not directed against them but against the regime and those who support it, and we continue to send a message to the people of syria that we wish to help them achieve their aspirations and will mobilise our assistance and improve our trade and economic links as soon as we see that genuine transition begin. in yemen we wait and watch president saleh who has talked again about transferring power, but i am not convinced that he is listening to his people. surely this time he must match his words with deeds and transfer that power now. the time for empty promises is gone. the president and his family must stop holding the country’s future to ransom. not least when we look at the tragedy of the humanitarian situation: there is a great lack of fuel, power, food and water, and people face chronic malnutrition. even before the current crisis, 7.5 million people – one third of all yemenis – did not have enough to eat. 400 000 yemeni people are internally displaced, and the country hosts over 200 000 refugees from the horn of africa. how exactly that transition goes forward is for the yemeni parties themselves to work out. but they have long ago accepted the principles of the gulf cooperation council’s initiative. we have engaged at all levels, trying to facilitate peaceful solutions among the key players in yemen. i have been working closely with the gcc and with the united states to keep a strong and united front, sequencing and coordinating our messages and actions on the ground and in our capitals. we have also played a key role through the un human rights council, and will now step that up through our member states in the un security council. last week a 32-year-old yemeni woman, tawakul karman, was awarded the nobel peace prize. her first meeting with the international community was hosted by our head of delegation on sunday. he transmitted first hand my message that the prize recognises her relentless commitment to human rights, and particularly to the rights of women. women are at the forefront of the fight against repressive regimes and they must remain central to the shaping of the reforms that follow. fourth, and finally, to bahrain where we have been following the situation very closely and we have made clear our views in statements and in direct talks with the foreign minister and with the king. this morning the bahraini ambassador was called again to my services. we have adopted conclusions in the foreign affairs council several times and we will not do other than continue to put the situation in the forefront of our work and of our statements. like many amongst the honourable members here i have spoken out against the death penalty – actually all of my life – and the harsh sentences handed down in cases connected to the recent unrest. special courts should not be used to try civilians and i have urged the bahraini authorities to stick to the commitments they have made and guarantee fair trials. for that reason, i take some positive note of last week’s decision to retry in civil courts the trials against doctors and nurses accused of tending to the medical needs of those who oppose the regime. that request, from us, was heard, but now surely civilian courts should move to drop all charges. the decision should be extended to all civilians tried in the security courts. about 60 more civilians, aside from those medical personnel, have been sentenced in these courts. at the end of this month, the international commission investigating the human rights violations will deliver its report. all the documented allegations must be followed up properly – whoever the presumed perpetrator is. our members have also led the way in geneva to try to secure follow-up to this independent commission’s findings in the human rights council, and to allow the high commissioner’s office to visit. on both fronts, i have to say, the bahraini authorities have chosen to remain evasive. the investigations should change the political climate and should encourage reconciliation. there needs to be far more and better dialogue between the authorities and the opposition. the authorities should, in my view, inject confidence into this process so that those groups with a legitimate grievance can come to the table. i have to say though, that without dialogue, without real dialogue and real reforms, there can be no long-term, sustainable solutions to the challenges that are faced in bahrain.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a few months ago we looked at egypt with great hope and admiration, and i myself had the opportunity to speak to many young people in tahrir square at the beginning of march. it was a move towards freedom, the defence of human dignity, human rights and democracy, and today we look with concern at egypt. if we have to take note, as lady ashton has just said, of the fact that many copts and christians have died, perhaps even been murdered, then this must be a matter of great concern to us. we must call on the countries of the arab revolution, the rebellion: protect your minorities, because if the minorities are not protected, then it is ultimately against your own freedom. that is why we must demand from field marshal tantawi and his government that the incidents be investigated and that those who simply ran over people with their vehicles be brought to justice and convicted. all those who have committed violence must be punished. the fact that some arab countries are showing more violence should not make us forget the many millions who are fighting for freedom, democracy, peace and dialogue between cultures. the demonstrations on sunday, with over 100,000 copts, also included muslims. they demonstrated peacefully with the christians. so let us not forget the will to peace of millions of peaceful muslims. in 2008, the grand mufti of syria, ahmad hassoun, was here in the european parliament. he gave a remarkable speech. surely he is also a man who is to be settled near this criminal system of president assad, who should step down. but now the youngest son of this grand mufti, who is certainly innocent, has also been brutally murdered, possibly by fundamentalists. so the muslims are paying their price, too. that is why we must advocate tolerance for all and we should continue to support the democratic movement in the arab countries with all our strength.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the subcommittee on human rights held a hearing last week on the human rights situation in bahrain, syria and yemen. we debated a wide range of demands, which differ from country to country. but i also heard from your statements now that you are dealing with it in detail, and it was essentially the same things that we heard. i would therefore just like to emphasise that it is really necessary for the eu to support in particular the efforts of civil society, namely those who are committed to non-violent change. you mentioned that in bahrain you promote dialogue with civil society. we have heard this too, but also the assessment that representatives of civil society believe in reform, but just do not see a willingness to have a serious dialogue. within civil society, it is important that the eu stands up for women and their organisations. the fact that they exist, that they are active, is shown by the awarding of the nobel peace prize this year to the yemeni woman tawakkul karman. she founded the association of women journalists without chains in 2006 and has been mobilizing civil society protests in yemen since the beginning of this year. i am glad as you mentioned, lady ashton that the eu delegation in yemen has already contacted her. the prize is not just a tribute to a woman who stands up for gender equality as a muslim in an extremely male-dominated society. the nobel prize committee is also sending an important message that the struggle for women's rights and emancipation must play a central role in the arab revolts. any government that comes to power in the wake of social upheavals must do so. i hope the eu will promote this as best it can.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, i would like to thank mrs ashton. i would like to make a preliminary remark, particularly as we are discussing ukraine after we have talked about the arab spring. the european union has a lot to improve in its relations with the countries south of the mediterranean. for too long we have respected dictatorships and cooperated unconditionally. but everything we are doing now with regard to ukraine should be assessed in the light of this responsibility and the negative experience that the arab peoples have had with us. i am - and i say this on behalf of my group - in favour of this association agreement between the european union and ukraine. this agreement can really help to make social and economic relations more stable and improve the lives of ukrainians. i am deeply convinced that the citizens of ukraine have really fought for and earned this association agreement through their commitment to democratic development. it is very regrettable that the tymoshenko case is now becoming a burden on what are supposedly improved relations between the european union and ukraine. but it must be for the reasons that all the previous speakers have consistently stated. i would like to go further and point out that not only ms tymoshenko but also several members of her former government are on trial. i would like to point out that before these proceedings were opened, hundreds of judges and prosecutors were replaced in ukraine. i do not see this as democratic reform of the judicial sector. i would like to point out that there is still no really good and independent media sector in ukraine and that it is very difficult to guarantee diversity of opinion. all of which means we have to be tough now. yes, we are continuing the negotiations, but we are also making it clear that the conditions for our signature, for the european parliament's approval of the association agreement, will indeed depend on the democratic developments in ukraine. mrs tymoshenko is a member of the christian democrat family of parties in europe. mr yanukovych, with his party of the regions, has observer status with the social democrats in europe. i think both party families have a great responsibility to ensure that there are democratic relations between government forces and opposition forces. it would be a big deal if this worked.
i have to say, madam president, the political trial and sentence against yulia tymoshenko is a blow to democracy and the rule of law in ukraine. it is therefore necessary to release ms tymoshenko immediately. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the political leaders in kiev and their backers clearly do not share our european values. it is not acceptable to criminalise political decisions with the aim of crushing the opposition. mrs tymoshenko could have also staged a trial for the election-rigging yanukovych in 2004. she didn't do that. she was dealing with him politically. president barroso should make his position very clear to yanukovych next week. we cannot conclude a contract with a partner whose text is so strikingly different from the reality on the ground. that is the reality today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they want to continue to occupy courts arbitrarily, to use the country's institutions for partisan and oligarchic purposes, and to put obstacles in the way of our investors so that their own circles are disturbed as little as possible. if there are no concrete steps to establish the rule of law on european standards from kiev by next week, president barroso should consider whether there is really enough to talk about with mr yanukovych. president ilves cancelled a meeting with foreign minister hryshchenko in tallinn today.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i want to thank the rapporteur ms bowles and her replacement, mr schmidt, and the other members of parliament for their very constructive approach to the proposal which highlights the significant interest the european parliament has shown on the activities of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd). the ebrd board of governors decided on a capital increase in may 2010. the authorised capital stock of the bank will increase by 50% from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion. the purpose of the proposed legislation is to allow the eu to subscribe to additional callable shares in the ebrd, in proportion with the union’s current share in the capital, which is around 3%. the text examined today is the result of interinstitutional negotiations and the commission fully supports it. we have now reached, i would say, a very balanced decision which will allow the eu to subscribe to the capital increase in line with the decisions taken by all our member states. as such this would be a very strong message about eu consistency and eu commitment both to the pre-accession countries and to the eastern and southern neighbourhood which, as mr schmidt well described, is a key strategic priority for the european union. the ebrd activities are widely appreciated to help countries to implement economic transition. the additional capital will provide the ebrd with the necessary operational and risk-bearing capacity to sustain a high level of activity over the coming years. this is essential to continue to promote local private sector development and accompany the transition and economic recovery of the ebrd countries of operation. the ebrd is not only playing a key role in supporting the financial sector and smes, but it also plays a role in energy efficiency and security, nuclear safety and environmental and municipal infrastructure. in the current post-crisis environment the bank will also better integrate into its priorities important qualitative dimensions of the transition and reform agenda, such as trade integration and regional cooperation, job creation and social sustainability, resource efficiency as well as innovation and greener projects. certainly, the ebrd will face a new and very important challenge with the expansion of its geographical scope to the southern and eastern mediterranean. the commission has supported this and we see this as a very clear political priority where the ebrd can play an important role. the commission will thus put forward a formal proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council to approve an amendment to the agreement establishing the european bank for reconstruction and development which would allow for such an expansion to the southern and eastern mediterranean.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. since our coordinator, jean-paul gauzès, cannot be here at the moment, he has asked me to speak in his place. so, there's another representative here speaking to you. the report calls for the increase in the authorised capital of the european bank for reconstruction and development from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion in order to maintain the ebrd's aaa rating and maintain the current level of voting rights within the ebrd. the epp group supports the call for an evaluation of the european public investment banking system to be submitted to the european parliament by the commission and the member states. we also welcome the request to the governor of the ebrd to submit an annual report to the competent committee in the european parliament on the promotion of the union's objectives, in particular with regard to the eu's millennium development goals and the europe 2020 strategy, as mr schmidt has already mentioned. it is also welcome that the committee's report now requires the evaluation of ebrd projects and beneficiaries to be made public in principle and that stricter controls are to be carried out in the future. this will prevent the bank from being used by beneficiaries to conceal information and to resort to tax havens in the future for projects in which it is involved. that is very welcome. our coordinator told me that there were two trilogues this summer. the result has the full support of our group. that is why the epp group will be voting in favour of this.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. yes, it is an important issue; we all know it. until the treaty of lisbon, there was always the complaint from the national parliaments: 80% of what we pass in legislation actually comes from europe, we just have to wave it through, we are sort of the executors. this has changed with the lisbon treaty. the national parliaments have a major role to play and can influence the decisions. the eu has become more democratic with the lisbon treaty, as the people's representatives have been given more power. this applies to the european parliament as much as to the national parliaments. then there were complaints from national parliaments, namely that the workload has increased so much that the piles of documents now always end up on the tables in just a few weeks to respond. but the important thing is that - and i have the impression that national parliaments are increasingly taking up the challenge and understanding - there is now an opportunity for the people's representatives in the capitals to influence european union initiatives. it is now almost two years since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on 1 december 2009 that these procedures have also come into force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is it satisfied with the quality of the responses from the national parliaments, how is the commission handling this, does it have sufficient resources, including sufficient staff, to deal with this? and in some member states, the regions, the länder - as in the case of germany - are important, how are inputs from this political level treated, do they find an adequate response? is the committee of the regions being cooperated with? these were the questions that colleagues andrew duff, alexandra thein, michael theurer and i asked together. i look forward to your answer.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union's vat system, which has been in place for 17 years, is now a major obstacle to european companies operating in the internal market. the complexity of the rules and their different national implementation meanwhile lead to an unacceptable administrative burden, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. it is in the area of crossborder electronic commerce, which is of fundamental importance for this internal market with its enormous growth potential, that tax barriers of this kind should be eliminated. the european consumer will also benefit from this. the commission's legislative initiative is therefore essential in the context of the economic and financial crisis, mr commissioner. i very much welcome the debate on the green paper. we are in favour of simplifying procedures and removing bureaucratic obstacles. my friend and colleague david casa has made an excellent proposal here and has suggested sensible measures such as the introduction of a european standard invoice or the reduction of vat returns. it is regrettable - and i would like to make this point explicitly - that there does not appear to be sufficient support from member states for their cooperation in implementing the principle of country of origin in crossborder transactions. in the past, not only the member states but also the commission and parliament have expressed their support for this. the fact that we are now moving to a destination country and creating a system based on the place of consumption is not optimal, but certainly a viable path that the rapporteur here proposes. overall, we are in favour of a regulation rather than a directive to allow for a better and more uniform application of vat rules in the european union, while at the same time creating an effective system for the internal market and the companies operating in it.
member of the commission. − madam president, i fully share the honourable members’ fight against protectionism generally. the commission is putting particular emphasis on open markets and the role of trade in growth and jobs. this is why we are such staunch defenders of multilateral trade rules and why we continue to fight against protectionism in fora such as the wto and the g20. throughout the economic crisis we have managed rather well to maintain open markets and avoid the easy trap of closing them, which would have had very grave consequences. this is no different when it comes to our relations with the united states. we remain in close contact and address barriers where they arise, bilaterally or through the wto system. the transatlantic economic council plays a crucial role in preventing trade-distorting measures through a focus on non-tariff barriers, and i must say that this new approach agreed last year by deputy national security adviser mike froman and commissioner karel de gucht is working well. the whole idea of the transatlantic economic council is to prevent divergent regulations before they arise, through upstream regulatory cooperation. in other words, working together in areas where we are just beginning to regulate in order to avoid barriers tomorrow. this is at the heart of moving closer to a transatlantic marketplace where further integration will work for the creation of jobs and growth. estimates put the number of jobs depending on transatlantic trade at 15 million and our joint aim is to strengthen this. the recent announcement of the american jobs act, which the honourable member was referring to, would, according to available information, subject the proposed new spending on infrastructure to ‘buy american’ requirements. while this initiative is still at the stage of legislative proposal, we are closely looking into its details and potential impact on eu suppliers. we are raising our preliminary observations with our us counterparts both bilaterally and in the framework of the wto government procurement agreement. our immediate aim is to ensure that the rights of our suppliers are not limited. we are generally concerned about such measures being envisaged or adopted by any trading partner. we believe that open trade should be promoted as an essential requirement for fast recovery.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commissioner has just indicated the extent to which the european commission is trying to get in touch with the americans in order to prevent possible new trade barriers. but when i read what the americans are planning and proposing at the moment, it literally says: 'none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used for a project for the construction, alteration, maintenance or repair of a public building or public work unless all of the iron, steel and manufactured goods used in the project are produced in the united states.' ladies and gentlemen, this is simply unbearable! and we have to tell the american people that very clearly. this has nothing to do with partnership and friendship, but is pure protectionism, which, by the way, is also harmful to the americans themselves; they know that too. i therefore hope that the commission will not stop at statements in the plenary of the european parliament but will take real action. what i would like is for us to stop using purely defensive strategies. why don't we just try a big throw? we are certainly aware of the great economic difficulties facing the united states of america. we also see the crisis in which many member states of the european union find themselves. why not take this opportunity to approach the americans and propose that we work together, transatlantically, on a project to revive the economy on both sides of the atlantic, perhaps by means of a common pact for jobs and growth and stimulation of our economies? i firmly believe that instead of going on the defensive and trying to stop the americans from fooling around, we should think offensively about whether we are not able to work with the americans to put together a package that could boost the overall economy of the world's strongest economies. i would be very grateful if the european commission could take action here. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
madam president, dear paul rübig and my esteemed colleagues! that's the problem. we all see that the wto has not made progress for years now, and that the americans certainly have a decisive contribution to make. this proposed legislation is certainly not a sign that the american people are serious about opening up markets that could move us all forward. the commission must finally take a new approach. the proposal i have just made, which is that we try to really make a transatlantic pact for growth and jobs, to work out a joint stimulus package for both economies on both sides of the atlantic, might be an approach that might help the americans -- i repeat now -- to stop talking nonsense and actually do something for the strongest economies in the world.
i have to say, madam president, i have a question to the rapporteur, and my question is: does the rapporteur share my view that it is a gross disregard for the european parliament by the european commission that the commission, which was not present with the commissioner responsible, is now changing the commissioner in the middle of the debate and we are therefore unable to get a proper answer from the european commission to our question at all? my question is, do you share that view?
the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are talking here about international economic cooperation, we talk a lot about the financial crisis, about the rescue of banks and the euro. incredible sums are being provided that would have been enough to promote employment throughout the world and thus overcome hunger. we talk far too little about the people whose real existence is affected by the crisis. the banks we are supposed to be rescuing have driven millions into unemployment through their speculation and have, among other things, irresponsibly jeopardized pension funds. with the american jobs act, president obama wants to put the fate of these people back at the center of politics. his idea of relieving companies of the financial burden when they hire new employees is correct. european policy should take a cue from the united states. the non-politics of strangling the economy by austerity madness must be ended. and in difficult times, i am in favour of using public procurement to promote domestic production. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the harmonization of the conditions for the award of public contracts for the carriage of goods by road is a very good one. the european parliament will be actively involved in the transatlantic legislative dialogue on this. the occupy wall street movement has not only won the support of millions of americans, but will hopefully also inspire the people of europe.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i did not vote for the resolution on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen agreement. i do not wish to belittle the efforts made by these two member states in recent years. i want to make it clear that we cannot continue as we have been. there are still problems of organised crime and corruption in these countries, which extend to the borders of my region, saxony. i understand the desire of bulgaria and romania to join. however, their arguments that similar problems already exist in the schengen area are not acceptable. we must take the concerns of the people at home seriously if we are to continue to take them into account in the 'project europe'. i could imagine a two-step solution, as germany has proposed. in the medium term, the airports of the two countries could be included in the schengen system and later the land and sea borders. we need to have more concrete criteria for schengen accession in the future. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the programme.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i believe - and we have tried to agree this at short notice among the group chairmen - that after this sad weekend in brussels parliament must not abandon the debate on the solution to the crisis and that we should not wait to see whether we will be informed on thursday or not, but that we must urgently intervene again. i was in brussels all weekend and tried to follow the decisions at every stage. it is already bizarre to me that a summit that was postponed for 14 days was not able to take basic decisions. the more crisis summits we have, the less obviously the ability to reach agreement. the deeper the crisis is described and analysed, the deeper the political crisis between the heads of state and government during the crisis summits becomes. the position of parliament is very clear. it is important to explain this position to the citizens of the european union again and again. a european economic government is not like these crisis summits. i therefore think that we should have another debate before this summit tomorrow afternoon in an urgent debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the new eu strategy for people with disabilities must be fully in line with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. we have achieved this in close cooperation with the rapporteur on important points. why is this so important to us? firstly, it is the only way for the eu to meet its obligations under the un convention. and secondly, it means a shift in perspective in our society in favor of human rights, because the un convention has made inclusion a fundamental principle for our living together, and that's a good thing. the aim is not only to adapt disabled people to the existing structures for people without disabilities, but also to change the social structures so that they are equally responsive to the diversity of human conditions and thus also to the reality of life of people with disabilities and in need of support. and this affects all stages of life, from going to a common kindergarten, to a common school, to participation in the workplace and workplaces where people with and without disabilities work together. it also concerns self-determined living, even in old age and in cases of intense need for support. as the commissioner has already mentioned, accessibility in all areas of life is a basic prerequisite for an inclusive society and applies to all areas of construction, but also to communication and to the various forms of mobility, and this includes language barriers to access. the right to inclusion must be accessible to all, including people with special needs. that is why it is so important to us that we have succeeded in declaring the special facility to be temporary, something that must be overcome. it is clear that we want supporting offers in the regulatory system. but to achieve all this, the prohibition of discrimination is a basic prerequisite. that is why it was important for us that this resolution should call on the council to finally scrap the fifth anti-discrimination directive. i appeal to the german government, which is totally blocking this for ideological reasons, to finally release the brakes so that we can prevent discrimination at all stages of life and give people their rights. it is of the utmost importance to us - and i appeal to the rapporteur - that this request be included in the report, otherwise the report is worthless to us.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you all this evening for the good and trusting cooperation you have shown me over the past few weeks. the subject of public procurement is complex and unfortunately also characterised by many conflicting interests. i think it is all the more important that parliament should be as uniform as possible in its external relations. the only way to achieve this is by making compromises where each group gains something and loses something. the unanimous vote in the committee was an important signal to the outside world. i hope that this compromise will be upheld in the vote tomorrow, but i am also very confident. what do we want to achieve together? the first is to reform the rules on public procurement carefully. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods and services are respected, and that the rules on the free movement of goods and services are applied. we all know that public procurement, for example, has been one of the main sources of error in the area of the structural funds. it is therefore important that we have some clear definitions in this area and that we clearly define the scope of application. another focus will be on simplifying and making the procurement directives more flexible. it is precisely in this deep economic crisis that we need clear, simple rules. only in this way can public procurement provide the impetus for sustainable development and innovation. the contracting authorities have a special role to play in this crisis. 17 per cent of gdp is generated by public procurement. this means that we can use public procurement to make development towards sustainable products with a cost-of-living approach, we can encourage more innovative developments. we do not want the cheapest, but the most economically advantageous offer, and we certainly want an offer which takes into account the total cost of living of the services, goods and works. another priority we have set in the committee is to strengthen access for small and mediumsized enterprises. small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy and it is important that they have easier and better access to public procurement. we want to reduce their transaction costs, we want to make it possible to divide them into lots and encourage them more, we want to simplify and facilitate their administration by means of prequalification systems or electronic passports. another focus will be to strengthen electronic procurement, as electronic procurement makes it possible to achieve cost reductions and to speed up the whole process. we can also create more transparency in the whole procedure by using electronic procurement. however, it is important for parliament to point out that legislation is only the first step. what we need in the area of public procurement is more professionalism on both sides, both from the public procurement authorities and, for example, from small and mediumsized enterprises. we want to exchange best practice models, we want more training programmes, but we also want to make it possible and easier to deal with public procurement by setting out the issues, such as standardisation. i hope that you will approve this report tomorrow. of course, it is possible to make small improvements, and we shall discuss this today. there are certainly a few things that can be improved, but the broad lines and the compromises should stand up in the vote tomorrow. then this parliament also has an influence on the revision of the procurement directives. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. first of all, on behalf of the liberals, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs heide rühle, for her report and for the good cooperation she has shown. in the light of current discussions, it should be noted that public procurement, the tendering procedure, is a very important means of obtaining fair prices for public services and for the procurement of goods for the public sector. competition is an element in order to deal economically with our scarce goods. the positive aspect of this report is that it aims to simplify public procurement. the aim is to make it easier for smes to participate in these calls for tenders. these include the consistent acceptance of self-declarations, the division of contracts into lots, i.e. a tendering procedure which is friendly to smes, and the introduction of an electronic procurement certificate. in addition, contracting authorities should take greater account of the quality of the goods and services to be procured in addition to the price criterion when awarding contracts. it is also appropriate that contracting authorities should in future take more account of life-cycle costs. so it's no longer about the cheapest offer, it's about the most economical offer in the life cycle. the commission is also proposing to take greater account of environmental considerations. that's the good part. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'subcontractor' in the definition of the term 'subcontractor'. so we see a big problem here. we also want an open market worldwide, which must not be distorted by a preference for domestic suppliers. we want other countries to open their markets in return. we are also critical of award criteria which are introduced bureaucratically, whereby individual local authorities can create their own criteria. in the interests of the whole market, this must be prevented.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first of all, i would like to thank mrs rühle and our shadow rapporteur, mr frank engel, for their excellent work. in fact, many compromises were made in this report and had to be made; that also served the whole. i also want to thank you very much for that. the starting point in my view - and much has already been said, which i do not want to repeat - is that the internal market in the field of public procurement does not work as it should because we do not find any crossborder tenders or offers in many crossborder tenders. we must indeed think this through, and i hope that the simplification proposals put forward by commissioner barnier will lead to important changes in this area. secondly, i think that the principle of best value for money, the best life-cycle offer, is something that needs to be emphasized more, but which has not been excluded until now. this is a matter of public procurement law - we must also face up to it quite honestly - which also gives rise to too much populism. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have actually stood by the case here today. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but already today, through the formation of units, small and mediumsized enterprises can be involved in the process accordingly, and this is partly happening. ladies and gentlemen, i hope that we will succeed in removing all non-award criteria from the new legislative proposal so that the winner of the tender will be the one who makes the best offer, the best offer over the life cycle.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the public procurement is an extremely important task for the future. i very much welcome the fact that the european commission intends not only to improve legal certainty but also to put right some of the points which have gone wrong so far. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs rühle, for including a few points which are of the utmost importance to us social democrats. the first is that we must ensure that the rights of workers are respected and that social criteria are given priority. this is very important to us, because it is also part of sustainability in our world to ensure that we do not generate the poverty of tomorrow, but also to ensure that reasonable prices are paid in the procurement process and that the lives of workers can be protected. another important point for us was, is and remains that subcontractors should be treated in the same way as entrepreneurs, so that it is not possible to override the criteria by awarding contracts to entrepreneurs, because subcontractors do not have to comply with these criteria. it is not a new concept, but one that is very important to us: ensuring that legal certainty is created here, so that we can really ensure that the award of contracts remains transparent and publicly understandable, and that there is therefore also competition, which is fair competition between companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to thank the commissioner very much for including our opinion in the review and taking it into account. and i would like to thank all my colleagues for their comments this evening. i would like to make one point explicit again: in 2004, we also set ourselves the goal of simplifying the procurement directives. unfortunately, the result was different. this is not only because we have drawn up complex texts at european level, but also because the implementation in the member states has increased the complexity. we must work on this if we are to achieve real simplification. it is not just a matter of european procurement directives being clear, simple and flexible, but also of member states not making the rules more complicated than necessary and imposing additional requirements when transposing them into national law. that is also important, and we must take that into account. i would like to draw attention to another point which is very important to me in this debate. if we want to give more leeway to public procurement and to small and mediumsized enterprises, we should be careful not to impose new requirements. the keyword 'quota' was also mentioned a few times in this debate. i find this extremely difficult. we are going to increase bureaucracy by imposing conditions, because this is easy in some member states and more difficult in others. and in the end, we need a compromise that is very difficult to enforce. that's why i'm against it. i have always said in this report, quite clearly: we don't want any strings attached. we want more local democracy, more access for small and mediumsized enterprises, simplified procedures, but no additional regulations. that's the one point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this has been proved again in krakow. the polish representative said during the debate that the unclear wording of the european procurement directives meant that in poland 80% of the contracts were awarded to the lowest bidder, rather than the most economically viable one. we want to go in that direction, and i think that is important. but if we are going in this direction, it is essential that we do not create additional bureaucratic constraints here, but that we make things easier and simpler and work with more help and with more sharing of best practice. (applause from the centre)
in writing. public procurement must not only be made more flexible but also more sustainable. we must use the revision of the procurement directives to change our strategy towards qualitative growth. public procurement must be used to reduce existing inequalities and to provide environmental incentives: it is about good public service work, about loyalty to collective agreements and the observance and control of social and environmental standards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am glad that the report has taken up some of these demands, in particular the anchoring of social and environmental standards and the abolition of the criterion of the lowest bidder. we must now maintain this line in the proposed revision of the directive at the end of the year. and we have to go further: it is about the protection of posted workers, respect for labour standards and collective bargaining and good work. and i hope that the commission has taken our signal and will take it into account in its proposals. public procurement is not a market-based instrument to achieve the objectives of the eu2020 strategy, but must be used for the social and environmental development of the european project!
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the importance of smes was highlighted by commission president barroso: 99% of all businesses in europe have fewer than 250 employees. smes are thus the backbone of employment and training. the small business act also launched an initiative by the european union to improve european and national legislation for small and medium-sized enterprises. in this context, the test of the legal impact assessment for smes was also introduced. but now a study by the european parliament has revealed that the implementation of this sme test in the different member states is very different and sometimes bad. only five member states make the sme test mandatory, 14 member states do so rather half-heartedly, irregularly and with varying quality, and eight member states do not do the test at all. that is why we as liberals have put this question and are calling on the commission to take the initiative to make this legislative impact assessment actually binding in the member states. we want administrative and bureaucratic costs to be quantified in order to achieve the objective of reducing them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. we are in favour of a very flexible approach to implementation, and of member states having some leeway. the aim must be to ensure that the interests of smes are taken into account in an integrated approach to legislation. and we want the commission to be the model, the driver, the engine for this sme-friendly implementation of the legislation. we as the european union should take the lead in ensuring that the laws for small and mediumsized enterprises are also transferable in practice.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the small business act is a fine thing, but it's not a law, it's a proclamation. if we want the commission to be, as mr theurer said, a model of sme-friendliness, we must pay particular attention to two points: the question of money and the question of decision-making. i would like to make three points. firstly, the research programme. i am still not happy with the way the negotiations between the directorate-general for enterprise and the directorate-general for research have gone so far on the future of what we have come to know as the competitiveness and innovation programme, which has been an extremely favourable programme for small and mediumsized enterprises. we will have to see how the business competitiveness and sme programme works in the future. but one thing should be the criterion of this house vis-à-vis the commission: for small and mediumsized enterprises it is not just about more money, but also about less bureaucracy, easier access to these programmes than before. and it is about taking a broad view of innovation - this was one of the main topics when smes were in brussels a few weeks ago for sme week. one of the main themes they bring up is that innovation is more than just research, especially for these small and mediumsized enterprises. innovation by smes can also contribute to major societal challenges. that is why we must give them extra access to this and not make them dependent on the big research-intensive companies. the commission must now show that what it likes to say on sundays is also being done on weekdays for the benefit of small and mediumsized enterprises. secondly, the structural funds. mr barnier has thankfully pointed this out. there is a need to dramatically improve access for smes. local and regional partnerships between public authorities, research institutions, universities and small and medium-sized enterprises must be established. there are many excellent examples: steinbeis or innovation vouchers, or the cambridge example. there are many examples from which we can learn how to improve the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. the last point: we must also make smes more responsible in governance structures. it is regrettable that the commission has not succeeded in giving small and mediumsized enterprises a voting right in its proposal for the renewal of standardization.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. small and mediumsized enterprises - as has been said many times - benefit most from rules that apply equally to all. unfortunately, we do not yet have the single market governance in europe that we may have after the single market act is adopted, after all 50 other measures are adopted. because small and mediumsized enterprises have interests which are so general that they are unfortunately not represented individually. there are many examples: access to third countries, access to finance or european standardization. that is why we have tried to give small and mediumsized enterprises, those who are on the move digitally, those who want to work in new markets, with the consumer rights directive, with full harmonisation, rules that allow them to supply the entire single market from a single location in europe. we need more examples of this kind, because small and mediumsized enterprises have no specific interests, but simply an interest in finding uniform rules. we should be more for it.
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you all for your questions and the points you have raised, which i have listened to with great attention and which i will of course pass on to my colleague, mr tajani. i will try to answer each of you briefly. first of all, as mrs sartori said, many of the problems facing small and mediumsized enterprises are still initially the result of the national administrative, bureaucratic and tax environment or ecosystem. we must therefore also act alongside the member states, and first of all at that level, at the same time as we must act at european level. i would also like to say to mrs sartori that the text on very small enterprises, which you are well aware of, is now in second reading in the council and should be before this house in february. mr paška touched on the subject of the competence of the member states and, just now, mrs swinburne spoke of the very small companies, for whom we must make things easier. many of you, including mr bendtsen, mr provera, mr brons, mr rinaldi, mrs gáll-pelcz, raised the question of funding, which was the subject of much of my introduction earlier. i want to confirm what i said about financing, which we want to facilitate for export and credit. when i apply the basel and g20 rules to all 8,300 european banks, of which almost 4,000 are cooperative banks - many of them are small regional banks that are business partners - i am naturally very attentive to the impact of these recapitalisation measures on the economic fabric. this is also the case with the internationalisation of smes, on which the commission will present a communication on 9 november, with mr tajani as rapporteur. i would like to say to president watson and to mr rübig that we are also attentive to taxation. my colleague, mr šemeta, should deal with this question of complexity, or rather - i will say this positively - of simplification of the vat framework, particularly in relation to all crossborder constraints, in a green paper he will present at the end of 2011. mrs merkies spoke of a second chance for honest entrepreneurs and the issue of non-fraudulent bankruptcies. i simply want to say to him that although only 4 or 6% of bankruptcies are fraudulent, there is naturally a fairly strong link in public opinion between the bankruptcy of a company and fraud. in 2010, a commission project identified the length of rehabilitation procedures as one of the main obstacles to second chance. the 2011 revision of the small business act requires member states to impose a maximum three-year limit for the rehabilitation of honest entrepreneurs who have gone bankrupt, so that they can be debt-free and can start over. the commission will monitor progress in this area. that is the answer i wanted to give to mrs merkies on this important point. i also tell mr kelly that i will propose, as part of the single market act, a measure to promote the mobility of venture capital. this does not, mr kelly, change the fact that there are fewer funds available for venture capital, as i was able to see the other day when i met in munich with small businesses that need these loans, but we will try to facilitate, with this passport, the mobility of venture capital funds. mrs toia and mrs handzlik referred to the late payment directive and its proper application. i can confirm that my colleague, mr tajani, has called on all the member states to anticipate its implementation. i told mr luhan that in all areas - i could go into detail, but we do not have much time - my colleagues, particularly mr tajani and mr šemeta, and i are looking for ways of having specific legislation for small and mediumsized enterprises. we have just mentioned the example of public procurement, to which they must have better access. mr nicholson spoke of the bureaucracy. if you look hard enough, you'll find bureaucracy elsewhere than in brussels. there is a certain amount of bureaucracy in brussels. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. to mr nicholson and mr gallagher, i confirm that we are doing this sme test. the european commission does this for each piece of legislation it prepares. we will check, as i said earlier, whether this sme test has been implemented in each member state. mr bütikofer referred to the difficulties of dialogue or the good cooperation he hoped for between the research dg and the enterprise dg. we are naturally working on this good cooperation within the commission. this is the case with the work that mrs geoghegan-quinn is doing with mr tajani, which you will find in the new financial perspective. there will be a new framework, mr bütikofer, on competitiveness and small and mediumsized enterprises, and also a new framework to facilitate access to research funding for small and mediumsized enterprises. as regards the question raised by mr morganti on standardization, mr tajani's proposal is under discussion. i confirm that small and mediumsized enterprises, through the organizations and institutions involved in these standardization activities, are not discriminated against. they have a voice in the chapter. they can make their views heard. mr kariņš asked earlier where growth would come from. i think, when you see the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises - 99 per cent of the economic fabric - that growth will come first from small and mediumsized enterprises which are much more adaptable, much more mobile and much better able to cope with crises. mr kariņš argued for the opening of the borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is why we are going to introduce this reciprocity tool in access to public procurement in the major regions of the world. mr obermayr argued for the renationalisation of european policies. i disagree with you, mr. obermayr. if you go in this direction, you will weaken, you will fragment the single market again, and we know very well that to regain growth we need a large european market. believe me, when you're in china or the united states, the only reason we're respected on this side, these big old countries and these big new ones, is because of the big market that these 22 million companies and 500 million consumers represent. i would ask you not to go towards renationalisation or national withdrawal. i know that this ideology exists, but i do not think it is the right one for small and mediumsized enterprises. mrs băsescu spoke earlier about training credits. this is a subject on which we must have european policies, since many member states do not have enough funds for this. since i was speaking of growth, i should like to take this opportunity to say that mr tajani and i are working on a subject which is not easy because not so long ago it was a dirty word to talk about industrial policy. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that we should regain the audacity we had at the beginning of the european project, with the coal and steel community, and that a number of industrialists had with airbus, by building industrial sectoral policies. there are a few strategic areas, the new information technologies, biotechnology linked to public health, new energy, materials, transport, where we simply have to ensure european independence, our capacity to be sovereign, not to depend only on technologies or products manufactured by others. i do not accept, as commissioner for the internal market, that europe is simply a land of services. we know that we need services, but we must remain a productive territory and not accept the idea of simply consuming or buying products produced at home and by others. that is why i think that the time will come when we will have to argue together - i am saying this in a personal capacity at the moment, but we are working with mr tajani on this - in favour of new initiatives for industrial policies. mr schwab is well aware of the work we have done together, particularly with mr grech's report and the many works that have been carried out. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, since you are all interested in the fate of small and mediumsized enterprises, to look carefully at this table, which is the scoreboard of the single market act. i worked on it with about ten colleagues, including mr tajani, but not only. we have identified 12 growth levers and some 50 proposals, 12 of which are key proposals. some of them - i would remind you - concern innovation and research, in particular the european patent, which we hope to obtain in the coming weeks with the polish presidency. all these proposals, ladies and gentlemen, which we shall formulate, if possible, in the next two years - and many of them already this year and at the beginning of next year - are proposals or regulations which will facilitate, proactively, so that the single market, which is too often understood as a place of constraints, becomes a place of opportunities for small and mediumsized enterprises. those who know me know that i am not in favour of theoretical or ideological legislation. small and mediumsized enterprises need to be made easier to invest, to innovate, to move and to pay taxes. it is precisely in this sense that we are working with my colleagues to reconcile small and mediumsized enterprises with the large market, as i said on the day of my appointment as commissioner. they feel that this big market is for the big and fat. i want that to change, and so does mr tajani. that is what i wanted to say to mr schwab, but also to mr martin or mrs del castillo vera, who raised these questions. i should also mention that we have opened a specific internet portal for small and medium-sized enterprises to facilitate information on everything we do. we will have the opportunity to go back to these questions with mr tajani and put them together to show in practice what we are doing in all european legislation, as a sort of sme-europe contract. this is the reconciliation we are working towards, and it is also the way we have to find to get growth back on track. the latter will come first - i am convinced of this - to small and mediumsized enterprises.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we have reached a good compromise on this point. so again, i would like to thank mrs alfano for her report on organized crime. we in the green group support the report. it's important that we move forward with this. the commission has already put forward proposals on this point. it is good that we as the european parliament also say where it should go in principle. we do not agree on all the points. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make a special appeal to the council and the member states, because greater cooperation is possible only if we finally achieve common standards in judicial and police cooperation. i think that some member states are still too resistant to the idea that we must also harmonise our standards if we want to promote cooperation in the fight against crime, which i believe - and this is the view of this parliament - is extremely important when it comes to organised crime.
i have to say, madam president, the heads of state or government apparently wanted to anticipate our critical demands of today. at the summit on sunday they underlined that an ambitious european semester was in their interest. we have also been talking about lessons from the past. the first findings of the current semester are sobering in my view. the experience we have had as the european parliament in applying the stability and growth pact so far is confirmed. the council's self-regulation is not working. it never worked, and it never will. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the end, we come to the same conclusion: we cannot rely on strengthening the stability and growth pact. the community method must be further strengthened. we in parliament should insist on greater transparency and open discourse, on the annual growth report, on the commission's recommendations and on their application by the member states. the commission is right to continue to be the source of great hope. i therefore ask you to make the most of the potential for improvement, because the creation of a new instrument alone will not bring progress. we also need to use it efficiently.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the content of the europe 2020 strategy, mr ludvigsson, is certainly something to be discussed elsewhere. this is a question of formal and technical organization. mr. dominic, you're not having an easy morning. but you said it correctly and honestly: the european semester does not include any instruments to help overcome the crisis. i agree. it can only be a very small contribution. but i think we both have to try to find a solution to this crisis together. i would therefore ask you: do you seriously believe that macroeconomic dialogue is actually something that exists today at the level of the member states? i think that's rather questionable. governments make programs so they can get re-elected. you can't blame them for that. but there is no macroeconomic dialogue on the long-term direction of economic policy. this is something that governments have to learn first. secondly, do you support the idea of a larger european budget to compensate for these macroeconomic deficits on a member state basis to some extent? thirdly, do you also support the call for single market governance, for more regulation and less regulation?
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission takes note of parliament’s recommendation not to grant discharge to the council for the 2009 budgetary year. the commission can only regret that the two arms of the budgetary authority have not been able to find a suitable solution to this dispute that has been going on for three years. the commission hopes that the issue of the council’s discharge will be solved rapidly in a way that contributes to improving interinstitutional cooperation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr president-in-office, it is good that you are here, we are very pleased to have you here, because we think it is important that we have an exchange of views here. this is the corpus delicti, so to speak. these are 34 questions on the implementation of the 2009 budget, which parliament put to the budgetary control committee and its members put to the council. i would remind you that the house has asked over 200 questions on this subject. you had to answer a little over 10% of them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you know that's always an issue for us. but this issue will be settled in the coming years by the creation of the european external action service. that means that we could get closer to a solution in the coming years if there was some good will. i am appealing to you, mr president-in-office, because we believe that we have made a setback since the hungarian presidency and now also under the polish presidency, and no progress. the greatest progress has been made under the spanish presidency. we would encourage you to accept the treaty, which states that parliament is the discharge authority. that means we can't afford to waive our rights. we don't have that many rights. we would like to insist that you bow to our discharge. unless colleagues check colleagues, there can be no reciprocity. i cannot accept that officials should bow down to a parliamentary budget. this is unacceptable to us as members of parliament per se. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the question of the council's discharge has been a point of institutional dispute between the european parliament and the council for years. the procedure is determined, in our view, by article 319 of the treaty on european union, which provides for discharge to be given to the commission's budget, and the corresponding article of the financial regulation. the council has not yet endorsed this view. he currently takes the view that he has also been relieved of the burden of the commission's budget since he uses operational funds from the commission's budget. i do not want to repeat the statements and positions which i and the other members of the committee on budgetary control have already heard from the council in this connection. i'm just saying there were a lot of them, and i don't think they were always coherent. it is important to me that the council is now ready to negotiate at a political level and no longer at the level of the secretaries-general, who in my view did not have a sufficient political mandate to do so, as he has informed us in a letter following the decision of the committee on budgetary control to discharge the council. i would like to express my gratitude to the presidency for this renewed offer. i think we should take this opportunity to negotiate with the highest possible negotiating delegation. and i think we should not overload these negotiations. that is why i have recommended to my group that it should abstain on this point. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
the answer, dear søren, is that it's rumors. now i could take the position that i don't comment on rumors here. but i have just stated the position of our group, which is to abstain at this point in order to allow negotiations with the council to take place at a level which is not pre-loaded. we did the same thing with your discharge report to the council.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to say that, unlike my predecessor, i do not think that the european parliament wants to vote no confidence in the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like the council to think more seriously about closer cooperation with parliament or cooperation between the three institutions. let me give you an example: i'm a property reporter. it would be of considerable benefit if the three institutions were to agree on the properties in a much better way. the taxpayer would also be grateful to us, because then we might also be able to act more effectively and more coherently, rather than having three institutions do everything individually. i see a similar situation with interpreters and so on. we should work together. the people outside have no understanding anymore for the fact that we don't even answer each other's questions!
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, medical devices are one of the most important things that help people to get well, and they also represent a huge danger. do you agree with me that our approach needs to be more harmonized? do you agree with me that the so-called notified bodies in the member states do not work well? do you agree with me that the new legislation you will be introducing next year must therefore ensure for patients that there is a body that verifies in a uniform, harmonised way whether a medical device is really safe for patients? do you also agree with me that we need to clearly define the use of each product, single or multiple use, and not leave it in the hands of industry, for the benefit of patients in the european union?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a statement on behalf of the socialist group. the question of the european parliament's discharge to the council has been a point of institutional dispute for years. the council and parliament have not yet been able to reach a consensus on this question. the european parliament derives its right to discharge from article 319 of the eu treaty and the corresponding articles of the financial regulation. the s&d group naturally shares this view. we insist on the right of the european parliament to monitor and evaluate the proper use of taxpayers' money by the council as well. the council has not yet endorsed this view. he is currently of the view that he has been relieved of the commission's budgetary burden. the s&d group does not share this view. we want a clear, coordinated procedure, negotiated with the council, which defines the duties and rights of the institutions. we are convinced that the negotiating process should be the first step. the council's decision not to discharge will have no consequences, because the eu treaty does not provide for any consequences in the event of non-discharge. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted in favour of this motion, and i think this is another typical example of the fact that there is often a big difference between what is intended and what is done, or, as they say, between theory and practice. we should take the time to reflect again on whether we really need such a high degree of regulation in this area, or whether the normal scientific and technical progress does not offer solutions here without any urgency and without any time pressure. i would therefore say again that we should think again about whether we can find a solution in this area. it would also be a small contribution for the people, for the people of the european union, to put in place a confidence-building measure here and not to regulate everything that can be regulated in europe, but only what is necessary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur has tackled an important problem here. it goes without saying that people with disabilities should have the same opportunities in the european union as everyone else. it's also true that we have a lot of catching up to do here. the rapporteur has correctly identified and named this. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that he will give us a clear answer. what do i mean? i always have a bad example from germany. we have made a lot of effort in recent years - and rightly so - to ensure that disabled people have access to public buildings. all uncontested, all right. however, this has led to the fact that even in small primary schools with less than 100 pupils, we have had to install an elevator at an investment of 150 000 euros, even though these schools have never had a disabled pupil since they were established. i want to keep it that way. i do not understand proportionality. i am sure that the rapporteur will not understand that and will take it into account.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wanted to speak to catch the eye yesterday, but unfortunately there was no opportunity. the debate yesterday and the decision today on the report have given me a lot of encouragement that we are on the right track. there are two major problems: on the one hand, smes are increasingly complaining that the bureaucracy involved in public procurement has become so large that they no longer participate in it. that is why it is very important to de-bureaucratize. secondly, it is extremely important to note that the person who makes the tender does not have to take the cheapest offer, but he should be able and allowed to take the most economically advantageous offer. i would suggest that we define very precisely what is the most economically advantageous offer, because we must never forget that the other side, which then loses, can also complain accordingly. we need clear guidelines and definitions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the report and also for recital m because i think it is right that we should inform people about what the law is and also about how young women can prevent unwanted pregnancies. the family, in which one takes responsibility for the other, is the ideal condition for all generations. but today we will not discuss the pros and cons of single parents. the fact is that single parent households in europe are at risk of poverty and that 85% of single mothers are mothers. the matera report lists good measures: the introduction of flexible working hours or working from home, the provision of crèches and day nurseries and the necessary financial support. in all measures and actions, and in all financial support, we must continue to work for social acceptance and pay great recognition and respect to single parents. a child is a treasure in itself and for society. it must not make the one who raises it poor.
in writing. - i have gladly agreed to the motion for a resolution. after the council of ministers' continuing refusal to disclose its 2009 budget, parliament has today rightly refused to grant discharge for the council budget. as budgetary controller, parliament must also be able to check the legality of expenditure in the council in the interests of the citizens of europe. as the budgetary authority, parliament is also responsible for the council's budget. the council's continued refusal to disclose damages the reputation of europe as a whole. it suggests that something is being hidden here.
in writing. - congratulations to mr kósa on a good report. implementation of the un convention on disabilities is meaningful, necessary and beneficial for all concerned. disabled employees are reliable, hardworking, highly motivated and love their jobs. this is a very positive situation. inclusion in everyday life is important. there are, of course, practical limits to the extent to which the community can no longer provide inclusion, for example when restructuring measures are not financiable. but this will remain an exception. but the same applies to respecting the wishes of disabled people not to be included, for example, if they wish to stay in a home or institution.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the issue of public procurement is essential to our domestic operations. but i think it is doubtful whether this means that we will have to revise the eu's procurement rules again soon after they come into force. the report by mrs rühle is a good compromise. unfortunately, the european commission has already decided to present its proposal for revision in december. we must therefore raise our concerns in the next legislative procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore warn against overloading the eu's procurement law. we must not unnecessarily complicate the rules, including the excessive inclusion of non-award criteria. interference in the manufacturing process, as the european commission is now apparently planning, is totally excessive and places too much pressure on companies. the most economical offer should be the one that makes the race, not the cheapest or the most politically correct one! in the case of the award of contracts for the provision of services in the field of freelance engineering and architecture, the threshold should be increased from eur 5 million to eur 1 million, corresponding to the threshold for the award of contracts for works. the formal documentation process must be simplified and the period of validity of the references increased to at least 10 years.
in writing. − i recommended to my group to vote against this report. the report advocates promoting mobility of workers as a major strategy to overcome unemployment, which is a flawed approach: current member states’ austerity policies contributing to persistent unemployment, promoting mobility by way of temporary emigration of workers from poorer regions to the richer ones, will not overcome unemployment. such a strategy could instead lead to a process of workers undercutting each other in terms of wages and working conditions. promoting labour mobility at any cost contradicts regional and cohesion policy aiming at socio-economic development in poorer european regions. the report does not have much to say on improving workers rights under existing policies on free movement of workers. the most severe problems concerning workers’ mobility are currently to be observed under the freedom to provide services and the posting of workers. on these issues the report has nothing to say. we deplore that the report does not address areas where the real problems occur. we do support some issues addressed, such as ending the transition periods on free movement of workers for romania and bulgaria, the need to combat social dumping and undeclared work, and a greater role for labour inspectorates.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we have noted your report, mr president, and let me say that the european council on wednesday may indeed deserve the historic accolade. the term is used in inflationary terms, but perhaps what is decided tomorrow in brussels is actually of historical importance. the question of 'where is europe going?' may be decided tomorrow. i have often criticised the fact that the european union is being divided into three parts: a franco-german directorate, the rest of the euro area and the rest of the european union with a special status for the united kingdom. this approach, which divides europe into different structures of will, is in itself one of the greatest dangers, destroys the community method and ends up creating a situation in which the dependence of individual actors, especially those in the euro zone, on the internal political situation of their country takes on such dramatic forms that each individual sitting at the table looks only at his own national situation instead of making the spirit of the community and the community objective the basis of action. we have seen this in slovakia, we have seen this in germany, we have seen this in every other member state, because the european council and the council of the 17 euro-states are governed by the principle of unanimity. we are in the process of making one of the strongest currencies in the world dependent on the tactical domestic games of the member states. this must be broken! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not need to invent additional institutions. we are on a dangerous path because trust has been betrayed: the trust of markets in the sustainability of investment in europe, and the trust of citizens in governments, the euro area and the european union as a whole to manage effectively. that trust has been betrayed for the last year and a half. the european council of heads of state or government has the following rules: announced, not implemented, withdrawn, reversed, announced again, not implemented again. we have seen mrs merkel and mr sarkozy meet just last weekend, but now we have a breakthrough. now they have agreed to announce, not implement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. what's it about? about the things they disagreed about. it is clear to everyone what is at stake. we must be clear about that here. it's about the amount of debt relief. the amount of this debt relief depends on the extent to which french banks will be affected first. these are the most affected, and that is why the french state knows that if there is a debt cut, it must stabilise these banks in some way. you pointed that out. the french state cannot do this from its national budget, because its credit rating would be jeopardized. so he's looking for other sources of funding and he wants to tap into the efsf. there are two models, the german insurance model and the french banking model. they disagree on that. instead of constantly putting out some disturbing interim news, how about we sit down tomorrow and negotiate until the smoke clears and then go public? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. (applause from the centre) i'd like to talk to you about possible contract changes. i read and hear that the eu treaty is to be amended, that a working group has been set up with mr van rompuy, who would have had a great opportunity today. if he had come here today, he would have had the attention of all europe. all heads of government go to their parliaments hermann van rompuy has missed his chance today. mr barroso is also in this working group and the head of the eurogroup, mr juncker. where is the european parliament? to those who want to change the treaty, i say, at least on behalf of our group: whatever the future of europe will bring in the treaty - and if it comes to the point of interference with national budgetary sovereignty - it cannot be done without the european parliament. the euro crisis cannot be used to continue the creeping de-parliamentarisation of europe. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i hope that what is decided tomorrow is finally what we need. in the end, it's not so much about the content. in the end, it is about the heads of state and government finally showing that they are actually up to the challenge they face.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not for me, there are two main insights in the results of the last weekend. firstly, we could see - and thanks to the troika report, the council could also see - that everything that had been decided on greece was wrong, that everything that could have been done wrong was done wrong. in july the council decided to cut the debt to greece, which was already criticized as too low, and the efsf funding was again far too low in july. the unilateral insistence on austerity in greece has ended in the very disaster that was predicted. the measures decided in brussels have been used in greece to aggravate the crisis from summit to summit - the greek crisis and thus the european crisis. the second insight from the weekend - this is the result of the delay again - is that europe cannot be led through crisis summits in a crisis. the fact that we need a different economic policy and a stabilising management system, as has been repeatedly stated, has been confirmed by this meeting of the heads of state and government after three days of intensive preparation. my group is calling for a different outcome from the next summit. we want to see an end to this perpetual pattern of crisis summits, where decisions are taken too little, too inconsistently and too slowly. we believe that the debt ratio in the case of greece really has to be well over 50%, and we also see that you have to make sure that the speculators, who have been speculating on the bankruptcy of greece, almost consistently, with a state guarantee, do not make billions of dollars overnight again. we want to send a different signal to greece. the greek economy has once again collapsed because of our actions. we need a convincing plan for the reconstruction of the greek economy. the greens believe that the focus of eu 2020 decisions must be clearly on sustainability. i know the details cannot be decided, but a credible planning must be undertaken. the decision on the efsf - i don't think there's anything about this crazy concept of the bazooka - must be made in such a way that the funds are increased. but if we are to speak of solidity, we must also ensure that the financial technology we intend to use does not impose an unmanageable and unsustainable burden on public budgets. there must be a wise balance here too. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial system is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis. the nationalization of responsibility for this will guarantee that the dexia case will not remain an isolated case, but that it will be repeated. in conclusion, we have seen that europe cannot be brought out of the crisis. i am very much in favour of having a thorough discussion now on treaty amendments and also of convening a convention which will also allow europeans to understand what is changing. but given the drifting of european economies and the great problems we face, i believe that we must now take a bold step forward. the commissioner responsible for the economic and budgetary affairs in the commission in brussels must now be given a new lease of life, he must be given the power to ensure that budgets are solid, sound and sustainable, and that economic policy is developed. if you do not have the courage, you will not have the courage to lead the eu out of the crisis. let me make one last request, which i would like to refer to the example of germany for many europeans: if you are afraid of your electorate, you will not be able to overcome the european crisis. if you have to remind angela merkel of helmut kohl or helmut schmidt, if you have to remind guido westerwelle of joschka fischer, then whoever has recognised something as right must also jump, and then he must represent that to his voters. then he may win elections, but without that courage, you will lose at home and you may lose the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i am convinced that this is the way to do it - if you look at the troika report. i am aware that a solution must also be found for the greek banks, but i believe that this is a decision that cannot be taken alone. the plan for how greece can be rebuilt with european help must also be decided. i hope that this will be a european signal to the greeks, who also know that they have to build a new greece and not just defend the old one. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the management of the crisis is becoming increasingly opaque, even chaotic. the council will begin to introduce pre-summit and main summits within three days. parliament follows this rhythm and considers the outcome of the council's discussions twice during a session. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the council and the commission are therefore left with the comment that they are still working on the principle of hope. the commission is hopeful that the new measures will create enough confidence that investors in international financial markets will be satisfied this time. but why should bets be stopped on future state bankruptcies? why should we not try to drag spain and italy into the whirlwind of speculation? only radical measures to prevent profitable speculation can prevent this. until we decide to do so, the carousel will continue to spin and the council will continue to propose to put up rescue umbrellas with taxpayers' money. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. a german economist speaks of a weapon of mass destruction in this context, since we are talking about a financial need of the weakening states of 4 trillion euros. and the proposed debt relief for greece is inevitable. the question is, who's gonna pay for it? of course it is right to transfer a larger ownership share of up to 60% to the international banks. but bankruptcies must be prevented. this is particularly true of greek banks, whose very existence is threatened. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. we need a bailout for wages, salaries, pensions and savings of the citizens instead of a bailout for the banks. we need a public bank in the european union which will give the states the loans they need at low interest rates and leave the private banks out of it. we need public investment programmes to stimulate work and employment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. nokia is exempt from taxes in romania for 30 years and moves on to asia three years later. nokia received massive financial support to build the plant in bochum, germany, and then to build the plant in cluj, romania. at the same time, the redundancies and the protection of the employees were publicly financed. i think it is a lie to use the crisis and the allegedly too high production costs or - as they are now called - environmental constraints as a reason for the mass redundancies. at the factory in cluj, each employee generates a million euros in sales per year, but costs less than ten thousand euros per year. we must no longer allow companies to take european money and then move on like locusts. every small promoter of european projects signs contracts on the sustainability of their projects. why can't they do that for big corporations? it's time to make some hard and fast rules here! volunteering and appeals are of no use here. as long as such companies exist, the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is of vital importance to our colleagues in europe, cannot be called into question. we must help those who suffer.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make a few further comments on the nokia case. nokia shows that the limits of the european globalisation adjustment fund are clear, and that the take-up effects of companies are much greater than we would like. nokia - it has already been reported - moved to bochum in the 1990s with eu funds, closed down production overnight in 2008 and moved to romania for low-cost relocation. it is said that up to €22 million has been used from the eu's structural funds. in bochum, 1 300 workers were on the streets overnight, 10 million euros of public money were invested to prevent them from falling into unemployment, 5 million from the european union. the same thing is happening in romania: nokia is closing again, 2 200 workers are being laid off, and there is a renewed call for european money. nokia must be blacklisted for subsidy-hopping and must not receive any more support. we must really think about how we can eliminate this kind of take-away effect and how we can put a stop to it. this should not be at the expense of the workers. but our funding structures must change, and nokia must repay the funds it received from the structural funds in romania.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. a good education policy is the best employment policy. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of unemployment, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of unemployment. that's why we have to take care of these people. these people - and this is our responsibility - must be given a chance at life. i would point out that we still have 14.4% on average, which means that we sometimes have much higher rates of school drop-outs within the eu. what is it with these young people? they have no chance, in fact, in the foreseeable future - whether the economy is good or bad - of ever living a self-determined life, of ever getting a well-paid job. that's why we need to invest here. i think that this is certainly always a good call from the european parliament, but it is primarily the responsibility of the member states. and it is also up to us to show which projects are already going well. the commission has already proposed a pilot project to deal with the problem of early school leavers and to provide a youth guarantee to highlight and prioritise this issue. this is a central point for which we must work. in addition, of course, there are those who already have a job. we must not forget that: we are talking in many countries about retiring much later. my generation will probably retire at 70, if at all. but this also means that we cannot simply complete training once, but we must invest in continuing training and also have attractive and flexible opportunities available in the european union, so that this training can continue, for example, in harmony with family life. these are all aspects which we must take into account, and i am confident that we will also have some success in this and take a step in the right direction.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. new skills for new jobs that sounds innovative, that sounds like an ecological modernisation of the european economy. but if you look at the file, it's a false alarm. the commission is unfortunately not taking the lead in exploiting the job potential of an ecological economy. i'm afraid not the commission is working to make fundamental workers' rights more flexible. this is the wrong approach. we need well-trained professionals to modernise the european economy, and good professionals can only be retained if they are provided with good working conditions. i'm experiencing this in my home region. it is a major centre of the european solar industry. but because they are not well paid - they are paid less than elsewhere - there is a shortage of skilled workers. the bastos report is correcting the commission here, and that is good and right. it shows that a functioning labour market must be an inclusive labour market, as the honourable member has just confirmed. but above all, it must be about combining good work with investment in education. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and it is in this context that the commission is proposing to introduce a new environmental policy. this creates enormous potential for green jobs. i am anxious to see when the commission will finally present its communication on green jobs so that we can take up what the bastos report shows and what we have brought in as an initiative in parliament through my report. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
i have to say, madam president, the bastos report is parliament's response to one of the flagship initiatives of the european commission and the european union. i agree with my predecessor that the aim must be to ensure that everyone has access to quality education and training, and that this must be one of the fundamental tasks of the european union. but it is precisely in times of crisis that we see how firmly the foundations of our common europe are built. i am therefore concerned that some of the elements of this foundation are becoming increasingly shaky and fragile. we have talked about the esf. we have also discussed the question of social dialogue. and unlike mr vlasák, i do not see that flexicurity can be the ingredient that gives us the solid foundation. what we need is not this flexicurity approach. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including the introduction of a new system of social security for the unemployed. this is not the background that can motivate them to take further qualifications and to accept educational offers.
i have to say, madam president, 'new skills for new forms of employment' is an important step towards more jobs and growth as a guiding principle of the europe 2020 strategy. however, this cannot mean that labour markets are unilaterally made more flexible without the involvement of the social partners and that workers are at the same time not entitled to social protection or that they are entitled to less social protection. flexicurity, the simultaneous introduction of security and flexibility, has so far been used by the member states as a magic word to introduce a creeping flexibilization and thus a precariousness of working conditions. under these circumstances, we do not want flexibility. and "cheap" does not create jobs. we have also seen this in the discussion on the previous item on the agenda. i would therefore like to emphasize once again that we are expressly opposed to the single open-ended contracts proposed by the commission. we believe that the introduction of young people into the labour market through contracts which lower social standards does not create a single job, but pits generations against each other in the labour market. labour market reforms must be negotiated with the social partners and ensure strong pension systems, continuing training, workers' rights and social security. we are firmly opposed to any interference with the national systems of collective bargaining between the social partners. i thank all those involved and hope that tomorrow we will adopt a positive report which, with the two s&d amendments, would be a real enrichment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the directive has been under revision for more than three years. we need a clear result. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. a clear signal that we stand for equality and a sustainable future for our society. but there has been no progress in the council for a year. germany in particular is blocking the process. the european parliament's feasibility study has shown that an increase in the employment rate of women by just 0.04% would already offset all the costs of two weeks of paternity leave. since mrs reding took office, we have been waiting for a proposal for a paternity leave directive. but nothing so far! until that happens, fathers must be included in this directive. in times of declining birth rates, an ageing society and rising costs of pension schemes, an increase in the employment rate of women and a stable birth rate are of paramount importance for economic stability. we want this to happen equally, between women and men, between fathers and mothers. i therefore really call on the council and especially on the german government to finally make progress here and to show that the european union really stands for equality and not just for a murk, so that we can also meet the expectations of our citizens.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european maternity policy is a never ending story! i remember - and many of you certainly do - very well the many long and difficult discussions, the hearings in committee and, finally, in plenary. we all had the same goal: to support the mothers. we had our eye on that. but the roads to the shrine were far apart. and in part, we've come face to face with each other from different angles. it's not forgotten. it is a difficult field to put maternity protection on a common basis and to harmonise it across europe, given that member states have different approaches in this area. mr president-in-office, i am grateful for your clear and unambiguous words. you just showed that again. we have drawn up a maximum wish list in the european parliament and are now surprised that we have not received a reply from the council. the council is simply overwhelmed by our requests. it is aware of the many differences and the different approaches in the member states. the vote in parliament on the key points was also carried by narrow majorities. the 20 weeks of maternity leave was voted for by 327 members of parliament, 320 against and 30 abstained. similar votes were held on full pay and taking paternity leave. we must recognize that the estrela report is not a sound basis for negotiations. the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. who wants everything, gets nothing in the end. the questions asked and the willingness of parliament to negotiate now mentioned are also not conducive to progress. there's too much difference in the way we think. if we want to achieve something, we must start afresh and make responsible, workable proposals. and we must finally recognise that a european maternity policy sets minimum standards and that paternity leave is included in parental leave.
mr president, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. it's not like we're coming from nothing right now. we have - and this should be kept in mind - a good minimum standard in europe compared to many other countries at the moment. the commission has nevertheless put forward a new proposal. it is simply due to the timing that the situation has changed in terms of equality. the commission proposal was therefore a wise step, a step forward which sent a clear signal, but at the same time, at 18 weeks, at 75%, it was so moderate that it would have been a viable option. i am sorry to say that i cannot but agree with the honourable member on this point. unfortunately, here in the european parliament we have a narrow majority, which has built up an insanely long wish list. it's just that right now, unfortunately, we're either facing that wish list or we're not getting anything. i would like to make it quite clear that i would prefer to take the commission's new proposal as a basis for at least taking a step forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is then up to each individual member state to raise the standards in its own country again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to begin by thanking the council representative for his very clear description of the current situation. we have heard repeatedly in this debate that it is about improving the situation of working women who are expected to decide to have a child. i think that the directive is too focused on increasing maternity protection to 20 weeks. but do we really believe that the decision to have a child can be reduced to 20 weeks of maternity leave? as a mother of three children, i know very well that overall concepts and good offers for families are necessary to influence the decision for a child positively and to establish equal opportunities for women. the present draft directive does not even come close to taking account of the different, sometimes very good, concepts of supply and overall concepts in some member states. we need flexible solutions that respond to the situation in the member states and societies and the resulting needs of families. maximum demands and wishful thinking are not the answer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the full protection of mothers and the well-being of children are of the utmost importance. this can be achieved in different ways with different models. if you want to get your head through the wall, you don't necessarily get there faster. lack of compromise does not open doors and build bridges. a moderate proposal would be a better solution for more maternity protection to get ahead in this area. i believe that we must look again at the approach based on the commission's draft directive, with more flexibility for different approaches in the individual member states, in order to significantly improve maternity protection for women and also protection for children in the first months of life. that does not work with the draft that is before us today, and which certainly did not have the broad support that some of my colleagues wanted to make clear today. i would like to see a little more flexibility, a little more realism and a little better appreciation of what the member states have already done today, without questioning our basic requirement for this.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, mr langen, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is rather strange to be here as rapporteur and co-author of the written question to the commission. i'll start with my report. the point is that the mother-daughter directive needs to be revised and amended, particularly on the basis of the new lisbon treaty. the aim of the directive is actually clearly stated. the aim is to avoid double taxation in the single market. the transfer of profits from a subsidiary to the parent company is, of course, a means of avoiding double taxation in an internal market. that makes sense. the directive then no longer allows the country in which the dividends are distributed to tax capital gains on export. conversely, the recipient country, the country of the parent company, is left to choose whether to exempt these profits or to include them in the national tax system. unfortunately, this directive has had a number of consequences. firstly, transnational companies make use of this directive. it is, of course, correct in principle that profits are not taxed twice, even within interlinked companies. but unfortunately, this directive is being abused time and again: low-taxed profits from the subsidiary's country are repatriated to the parent company's country and are no longer effectively taxed there. some of these profits are also transferred outside the european union, and the necessary taxation is still lacking. two recent examples: exxon luxembourg recorded accounting profits of eur 3,6 billion and eventually transferred them via exxon spain to the usa. the tax paid was zero, whereas google is known to be heavily taxed through two tax regimes, the so-called double irish and the dutch sandwich, and these two regimes then allow google to tax its profits at only 2.4%. these extreme forms of low taxation or double taxation are an abuse of the directive and at the same time a blatant form of unequal competition between transnational companies and small and mediumsized enterprises, which of course cannot use such methods. at the same time, we see that public budgets are in serious trouble. we have great need, we have savings programs, we have tax increases. mr rehn is trying desperately to get the various countries to exercise budgetary discipline. at the same time, we see that the revision of this directive has unfortunately been passed over by the commission and not used to curb potential for abuse. the euro plus pact, on the other hand, commits the vast majority of member states to making progress in the field of tax harmonization. that is not in keeping with the spirit of this revision. the european parliament, in its committee on economic and monetary affairs, has overwhelmingly voted for an amendment to this directive, going beyond what the commission has proposed. the aim of the directive is to ensure that profits are only taxed in advance, at an effective rate of at least 70% of the average nominal tax rate in the eu, i.e. a minimum tax rate of 16%. i can therefore only say: mr president, think again whether this revision is really appropriate for today. change that. and to the commission: please reconsider. withdraw your proposal and use the potential of this directive to raise additional fair taxes on a consistent basis.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular sven giegold and sharon bowles, for their reports on the proposal to recast the parent-subsidiary taxation directive and for the oral question. the report is a plea in favour of a minimum level of rates in the member states, but it challenges their competences in this matter. requiring the suggested minimum rate on the subsidiary distributing its profits would result in the exclusion from the directive’s scope of companies established in several member states with rates below the threshold, namely germany, latvia, lithuania, bulgaria, romania, ireland and cyprus. this approach would lead to a partial integration of the national markets and a situation potentially challenging the treaty freedom of establishment. in addition, pursuant to the interinstitutional agreement on the recasting of legal acts, the introduction of such substantive amendments to unchanged provisions in the commission’s proposal requires a different legislative procedure. in this case, the commission would have to follow the procedure for amending a directive. that requires a much more detailed political and technical assessment than the recast. i fully understand the concern about aggressive tax planning, but the approach contained in the report does not ensure a level playing field, is not sufficiently targeted towards abusive practices and thus not appropriate in this case. next year, i plan to table an initiative addressing these issues, outlining possible approaches to tackle tax circumvention, particularly in case of double non-taxation. let me now reply to the questions related to the german-swiss and uk-swiss savings taxation agreements. let me first emphasise that we have made, at this stage, only an initial comparison of both agreements with the eu-swiss agreement. however, i can already share with you some elements. as regards the agreement with germany, two aspects emerge at this stage of the analysis. first, the level of the rates. the withholding tax rate of 26.375% contained in the german-swiss agreement differs from the rate of 35% of withholding tax fixed in the eu-swiss agreement. this result is achieved through a refund of withholding tax. second, the nature of the withholding tax. while it is in the nature of an advance payment under the eu-swiss agreement, the german-swiss withholding tax appears to be final. it is likely to be less efficient when it comes to deterring tax evasion. the agreement between the united kingdom and switzerland was made public only on 6 october. our first assessment indicates that it generally provides for higher rates of withholding tax than the eu-swiss agreement. moreover, no automatic refund appears to apply. however, we are still examining the details. as to your second question, the proposed amendments to the directive are still being discussed in the council. germany and the united kingdom are part of these discussions and are among strong supporters of the enhancement of the directive. the commission has already asked the council for a mandate to negotiate amendments to the eu savings agreement with switzerland to extend its scope in line with the proposed developments in the directive. the commission favours an ambitious agreement with switzerland. i see no good reasons to further delay the adoption of the mandate. this position has been broadly supported by the member states. it is important, however, that this ambition is not undermined by bilateral agreements. the recent developments, therefore, reinforce the importance of a common eu approach towards switzerland and other third countries. your third question refers to the respective competence of the union and the member states in the area concerned. member states are free to enter into international agreements with non-eu countries, but they must respect eu law and its principles governing exclusive eu competence. taking into account their wide scope, the bilateral agreements may also cover aspects already covered by the eu savings directive and/or the eu-swiss agreement. insofar as the bilateral agreements may prove to cover areas of exclusive eu competence, the commission would take this matter very seriously. it would not hesitate to take the corrective steps if necessary. in general, member states must ensure that any bilateral negotiations they foresee or conduct do not cover aspects which are a matter of exclusive eu competence. and likewise in particular, in the savings taxation regime, member states must not include in such agreements any area covered by the eu savings directive or the eu savings agreements with third countries. unilateral action taken by member states in this field should not affect future action on the part of the european union that could comprise the amendment of one of these instruments. in this specific case, the commission has not been associated with the negotiations. all along the process, germany and the uk have consistently reaffirmed their attachment to the eu common rules and objectives. as a general principle, the commission urges member states to take the necessary precautions in the matter. in case of any doubt, they should consult with the commission at the earliest possible stage. finally, as regards your question on how far the german-swiss agreement potentially curbs the development of automatic exchange of information, i can assure you of the commission’s continued commitment to automatic exchange of information. we will continue to strive to apply that standard across the eu, and we will continue to push for the highest possible enhanced standards of transparency and exchange of information with third countries.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the commissioner for giving a clear answer to the questions put by the economic affairs committee. i would also like to congratulate mr giegold on his report. parliament has supported this report by a large majority and we shall be voting in favour of it. the commissioner has the opportunity to put into practice the arguments put forward in this report on the parent-daughter directive in the spirit of the tax harmonization which he is seeking. we know that some of the problems, for example in the eurozone, are caused by different tax rates. the countries you mentioned were mainly euro countries. so have the courage to make a proposal! we'll help you with that. the second point is the bilateral tax agreement between the federal republic of germany and switzerland. i'm glad you kept your mouth shut. i can only say that this agreement does not contradict the eu agreement with switzerland. i remember when i first came to this parliament in 1994, there was already a lively debate on the unification of interest rate taxation. first luxembourg objected, then austria, then luxembourg again, then the channel islands. when they were all under one roof, switzerland had to be included. then there were delays again. it was a ten-year back and forth because unanimity had to be maintained. you really do not have an easy job, commissioner, because it is difficult to get all the member states under one roof. the model chosen by switzerland, namely that it does not exchange information but adopts its own taxation measures, does not contradict this bilateral agreement. because first of all, you said it yourself, you weren't involved, but you were informed. secondly, it is not the same tax bases. the problem is that black money that is not subject to taxation may be included at different rates afterwards. and it's about a kidnapping in the future. this goes beyond the eu agreement with switzerland. the tax rate chosen there was the same as the current rate in germany of 25%, plus the solidarity surcharge, so we are exactly at 26.57%. and in the agreement - i have read and seen it this way - there is a passage which clearly states: if the tax rates in germany are adjusted, then the agreement will be changed. and if switzerland does not comply, the agreement must be terminated within six months. so, it's a new crime, then. i understand that this is causing problems, for example in germany. there was a heated political debate about it. but this agreement is a first step without attacking the tax secrecy of switzerland in general. we have no power to impose a new dimension of interest taxation with a third country, switzerland, anyway. in this respect, if other member states follow suit, it could be a model for the further development of the bilateral agreement with switzerland. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to ask a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
i have to say, madam president, mr langen, i do not want to go into the european legal disputes with the commission. i just want to ask you a very direct question. you just mentioned the consequences in germany. are you aware that the association of criminal investigation officers has grave concerns about the impact of this agreement on law enforcement? are you aware that the federation of tax unions has major concerns about the outsourcing of tax enforcement responsibilities? and finally, are you aware that the tax rate on churches is running out of money, and you're creating a loophole? what do you think?
i am not going to go into that. the last point is true, the church tax has been excluded. i don't know if we can renegotiate this. that's a point that can really be discussed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the alternatives are either nothing at all or a sensible future arrangement. the german politicians will also have to decide between these two. it will not be faced with the question of allowing the agreement to lapse again, but it will have to ask itself: what is the better way forward - also for europe - bilaterally with switzerland?
i would like to thank mr schmitt. are you aware that under this german-swiss agreement, it is not income that is taxed retroactively but capital, at a rate of between 19 and 34%? the capital, not the profits! so this is a whole different dimension.
i have to say, madam president, mr schmitt said that the agreement should be critically assessed. my question is whether he even knows how it's put together, that there are two parts, namely interest income for the future and capital deductions for the past. it's important for the assessment that you know that at all!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i would like to make a few comments on the tax agreement between germany and switzerland, as others have already done. instead of putting a stop to the backlog, instead of plugging holes for tax evaders, which would be sensible, they've produced a swiss cheese with big holes. the proposed transitional period of five months gives tax evaders plenty of time to transfer funds from switzerland to other tax havens. however, as foundations and trusts are not covered by the agreement, it is sufficient to convert the assets stored in switzerland into foundation assets. the corresponding forms are available from swiss banks. the german tax authorities have recently been leaked information about a number of tax evaders who hide their assets in switzerland. the agreement now grants amnesty to these individuals and prohibits tax investigators from further using the information they have. what kind of deal is this that puts the irs on the hook? a promotional video by swiss banks says the following about the agreement: in the future, customers will continue to benefit even more from the values of the swiss financial centre. the agreement clearly lacks the necessary eu-wide consensus and is also contrary to the eu's efforts to increase transparency in tax matters, to make tax collection in the member states more efficient and, above all, to combat and prevent tax fraud. that is why we cannot accept this agreement. we ask the eu to stand up to this in case of doubt.
i have to say, madam president, mrs lulling, you are an expert in taxation in every respect. in previous years, it was delaying taxation, now it is implementing it. that's wonderful. so i have a question for you: you have described this as a promising path. would you advise the greek government to conclude a similar bilateral agreement so that it can finally receive its interest income?
rapporteur. − madam president, i have just a few comments. first i would like to thank mr nitras, because he analysed totally correctly my report, which does not take a position on the principled question of whether there should be minimum tax rates. it is very clearly only saying – and this is also in answer to you, cher olle – that it should not be used for someone to repatriate and then get away with no taxation. so the does not take a position on the question of whether we want european minimum tax rates. it does not say that certain countries are basically excluded; it is only saying that, if profits are then repatriated, they can be taxed according to the laws of the home state rather than having to take this directive into account. nur noch einen satz auf deutsch an sie, herr langen. eine sache ist ja klar: wenn sie die erbschafts- und vermögenssteuer im vergleich schon nicht interessiert – dass sie die kirchensteuer nicht interessiert, finde ich allerdings besonders fragwürdig. wenn sie das aber doch interessiert, dann sollte man neu verhandeln. dazu möchte ich nur folgendes sagen, das können sie gerne herrn schäuble übermitteln: er möge bitte dieses abkommen neu verhandeln, das fände ich sehr gut. noch ein letzter punkt bezüglich der antwort auf die frage nach dem doppelbesteuerungsabkommen. herr kommissar, sie haben es ja eben durch die frage von frau lulling schon gehört: angesichts dieser bilateralen abkommen fragen sich natürlich luxemburg und österreich, die derzeit genau dieses mandat verhindern: sollen wir denn dann umstellen auf einen automatischen informationsaustausch, was passieren würde, sobald wir mit drittländern verhandeln? und sie haben schon die andeutung gehört: natürlich nicht. wenn sie jetzt die schriftliche fassung ihrer antwort erstellen, dann denken sie bitte genau darüber nach, ob sie mit dieser antwort letztlich nicht die letzte chance verpassen, diese bilateralisierung der zinsbesteuerung zu verhindern. sie haben genau gehört, was die vorlage ist, es liegt in ihrer hand!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. we propose that the flexibility instrument be mobilised on the basis of point 27 of the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline, in favour of the eu 2020 strategy for growth and jobs and the european neighbourhood policy. i would like to say right away in the debate that we will not put this report, which has been voted on in the committee on budgets, to the vote in the plenary because we are faithful to the treaty. we know that the flexibility instrument can only be mobilised jointly by the budgetary authority on the basis of the agreement, but we consider it an urgent and imperative need to support the eu 2020 strategy with an additional 30.7 million in heading 1a and to contribute an additional 208.6 million to the european neighbourhood policy in view of the needs arising from developments in our neighbourhood. i would like to say again that the european parliament, in its commitment to a reasonably equipped european budget, does not deserve to be criticised in public and by the council, as is sometimes the case. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. but there is the classic difference: the council or parts of it still regard the european budget as a hostile element. they only see it from the point of view of 'what do i pay in and what do i get out?' and they are ignoring something - as in budgetary policy in general - that commitments i have made must eventually be converted into payments, and the longer i delay, the bigger the pot at the end of the day. this is precisely what we must avoid in the interests of a sound budgetary policy. this includes telling the public over and over again that national budgets in the european union have increased by an average of 62% between 2000 and 2010, and the budget of the european union by 37%. at the same time, we have financed the enlargement budget. it is also part of the current debate that in 2011 23 out of 27 member states will spend more than the previous year, and according to the latest forecasts, 24 out of 27 member states will have budget increases in 2012. in this respect, what we are voting on today is a serious offer from parliament to the council to be able to conclude a sensible budget for 2012. i would also like to express my appreciation of the efforts of our rapporteur on the budget of this parliament. this is a parliamentary budget with the lowest rate of increase in a long time, excluding lisbon and excluding croatia, 0.8%, and with an overall increase of 1.9%, with a reasonable balance between the interests of the house. i would also like to say that in this situation, in which we have done our homework on the parliament's budget for this year, there is no point in making a showcase proposal. the whole house agrees. i would also like to say that all the institutions must think about how to reduce costs and red tape in the next few years of the next multiannual financial framework without compromising the efficiency and the ability of the european institutions to act. and indeed the european parliament will have to contribute to this in a larger package. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let's not kid ourselves. we are in the same position as we have been in every year in the 2012 budget procedure - we are in front of a council that is not in agreement. the council has, as usual, cut the commission's appropriations, even though they are not very large, for the environment and climate, public health, food and feed safety. the four agencies together account for just under a billion euros, or 0.67% of the eu budget. we are therefore very pleased that the committee on budgets has complied with all our requests and has re-implemented the appropriations in the draft budget everywhere. i would like to take this opportunity to pay a very high compliment to the rapporteur. francesca balzani is doing a great job overall. we are also pleased that the package negotiated included seven pilot projects and three preparatory actions from the environment committee. we've never had such success. so all that remains for us is to work with the council to achieve a good outcome for the citizens of europe in the negotiations.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − mr president, in the committee on industry, research and energy there has been a shared conviction from all sides that the budget priorities must reflect the strategic goals of eu 2020 and we are glad that the committee on budgets has also supported this position. for our committee there have been three particular priorities. first, the need for fp7 to be fully implemented in order to stimulate competitiveness and sustainability and help address the major societal challenges of our time. no money should be diverted from fp7 – i repeat, no money – and this is a shared view of the committee. we know that the fight with the council over iter will be hard but we should stick to this. number two, in the current economic situation we need to support smes and all programmes that have proven their value for smes. number three, we should see to the priorities in the energy policy and we are grateful to the budgets committee that they have helped us in sticking to this priority.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have worked out a viable compromise in the committee on fisheries, which ensures that the funds allocated last year are largely maintained. it is important that we have the financial means to manage fisheries sustainably and in a way that is forward-looking. the european union must be able to continue to fulfil its responsibilities in the fisheries sector. we want to encourage dynamic development. this also applies to pilot projects to support marine research and integrated marine management. i would ask you to support this line in the vote and hope that in the subsequent discussions with the council the appropriations will be maintained.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. − mr president, the civil liberties, justice and home affairs is of course happy to receive a tiny bit more for the area of civil liberties, justice and home affairs – as proposed by the commission at least – because we believe that this area is a very important one for our citizens, for their liberties, for safeguarding their rights across borders and for building a european citizenship. but of course we also want to do our share in saving money. we believe that, before drawing up new programmes or prolonging existing ones, a thorough evaluation of the existing programmes should be carried out and we should very much follow the lessons learned. furthermore, we believe that spending should be concentrated in areas where the eu has a clear added value. however, it does not make sense to create new agencies or give new tasks to existing agencies if we do not have a financial basis for that. an agency cannot carry out tasks for which it does not have money. we should take that into consideration when we are creating new programmes and setting up new agencies.
the author of the opinion of the consultative committee on petitions. - mr president, i have to say something. the committee on petitions is concerned with ensuring the financial resources of the ombudsman. the ombudsman is an important institution of the european union. it provides citizens with help and it eliminates problems and failures in the institutions. the ombudsman contributes to closer relations with the citizens of the eu. in the 2012 budget, there is a very moderate increase in the ombudsman's budget of 0.47%. for example, the ombudsman has not applied for new posts, so he does not want to hire any more staff. the council nevertheless wanted to make some cuts. i therefore thank the committee on budgets for having reversed these cuts and i hope that we can confirm the position of the committee on budgets today. it would be a sign of greater civic engagement.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. as a green budgetary politician, the crucial criterion for me is that natural resources must be managed sustainably, that public budgets must be designed to do so and that financial resources must also be managed sustainably. the debt crisis in europe has taught us this. we are called upon to work together in the three european institutions towards this goal and to improve our policies. we all know how difficult the situation is in the european member states. we know this because we are all citizens of the various member states. we are not aliens in brussels or strasbourg who do not understand how difficult the situation is. but if we are pro-europeans, we are convinced that there are targeted policies which the european budget must support and which must serve the common good of our economic and strategic interests and the future viability of our citizens. this is why it is right to take the eu 2020 strategy so seriously and invest more in targeted areas: low-carbon economy, sustainability in new products and technologies, energy saving and energy efficiency, because it is on such new products and also new jobs, which depend on such a new competitiveness economic policy, that success in the internal market and our global competitiveness depend. it is therefore right to pool interests, including through the eu budget, in order to make progress in this area. it is not hostile to the member states, but it is strategically wise to advocate european added value at this point and thus also to promote the economic policies of the member states. that is why it is said that we must save on the one hand and we must invest wisely in industries of the future on the other. where can we save? we must, in our view, save where we invest in the wrong risky technologies and use funds that are not really used with any future, as in the case of the iter fusion reactor. 1.3 billion extra money that has not been found yet. the majority of the house, the commission and the council are determined to finance this risky technology. why would you do that? it's a way to save money. the european administrative budget also offers opportunities for savings. we made that clear. we want to save 20 million on translation and simultaneous interpreting. i also think that you can save money on business class. on short-haul flights, we don't have to fly business class, we can fly flex economy. i hope you're still moving in that direction. because that too could show that we are capable of self-restraint.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe that the rapporteur, mr fernandes, has achieved a major breakthrough on the part of the parliament's budget for the first time in many years, and i am pleased that the cooperation has been so constructive, particularly with the general secretariat and the bureau of the house. we have done our part to show that in times when people have to tighten their belts, money can be used efficiently and saved. i think it is an important signal at a time when all the member states are discussing how to deal with this crisis that we have set a good example here. we have achieved savings in the double-digit million range - just under 74 million. mr vaughan has just mentioned how this is expressed in percentage terms in the house. we are also in favour of the introduction of a new system of taxation. we don't have to buy a $30 million building and renovate it to live here. i think that the resources can be used much more efficiently. i also believe that we would discover much more savings potential and be able to help to create a more efficient and effective administrative structure if the budgetary committee responsible were not only given the budget lines in which the secretary-general of the house proposes savings, but if the budgetary committee were given an overall picture, because then we would be able to see how the funds are being used overall and work on the structure. in conclusion, i would say that we could save about five times as much if we held these meetings in brussels instead of every month in strasbourg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the volume of the eu budget has been around the same level for years. the eu's tasks have been steadily expanding and the financial needs have increased significantly. the financial market supervision has thus created the necessary new institutions. however, in order to carry out their tasks effectively, these institutions need to be well equipped financially. the financial and banking crisis has made the economic weaknesses of some eu member states apparent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. some economists even speak of the need for a marshall plan for the crisis-ridden eu countries. the eu does not need growth-destroying austerity programmes, but a growth-promoting spending programme that secures jobs and incomes for workers and young people in the eu. but what is the council doing in this situation? it reduces the commission's proposal, which is already far short of what is needed. if, in the present political situation, an adequate increase in the budget is not feasible, parliament and the commission should do everything possible to at least prevent the cuts proposed by the council.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to begin by expressing my hope that, following the good approaches and the willingness of the polish presidency, we will be able to resolve the outstanding issues of the 2012 budget in november in an intensive dialogue with parliament. i would add that the spirit of the budgetary conference held in brussels last thursday and friday, with the participation of the national parliaments, the council, the european parliament and others, was also really inspired by a willingness to listen to each other, to approach each other and to find a credible coherent common approach. but i must say quite frankly, mr dominik, that this positive impression has been somewhat countered by your appeal. we as a parliament, as directly elected members, do not need the council's appeal for unity and responsibility. we are more in keeping with our responsibilities than the council, and i do not take any advice from the council on the rules of the game when, for example, the council, on the basis of article 120 and in violation of the budgetary rights of the european parliament, mobilises 60 billion in one long night, above the ceiling of the financial framework and above the ceiling of own resources. no law may be passed which goes beyond either of these two limits. start with yourself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore expect that we shall also be able to discuss the scale of commitments and payments in a calm and reasonable manner, and i repeat: do not compare apples with pears! the first point is that we do not take on debt in the european budget. secondly, i repeat what i said at the beginning: the european budget has increased by 37% over the last ten years, the average of national budgets by 62%. we are therefore at last beginning to dispel the myths and not to use the european budget as a pawn in negative national attacks on european integration and budgetary policy. if we succeed, we will find a solution.
the following is the report by ingeborg gräßle and crescenzio rivellini, on behalf of the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financial rules applicable to the annual budget of the union (com (2010) 0815 c7-0016/2011 2010/0395 (cod)) (a7-0325/2011).
the rapporteur. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. simplicity is sometimes quite complicated. we have tabled many amendments as rapporteur, which are aimed at harmonizing the rules and hopefully solving problems common to all the funds, such as the eligibility of costs or the determination of personnel costs. as rapporteur, we have tried to learn from the mistakes made by the european union in the past. we want to create uniform rules so that at least the diversity of rules will end. and we're making the budget much more transparent than it has been in the past. this is also a major step towards unification and closer ties with the citizens. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this, first of all my co-rapporteur and the members of our working party, the colleagues, the assistants and the many dedicated officials here in the house and in the commission who have helped us. last but not least, my longtime assistant, christian sichel, who is currently babysitting his baby, has my best wishes. i am grateful to my colleagues for supporting our approach, albeit with varying degrees of enthusiasm. i would like to call on the commission to continue on the path of unification that has been followed so far. it would be a huge step forward if the commission could enforce rules that are not contradictory in its own house. in your own house, that should be possible. that would be the greatest contribution to simplification that you and we can make. we are voting today only on the report, on the amendments and not on the resolution, because we have begun friendly talks with the council, which i very much welcome. and we want to continue our friendly talks. today, the transfers and the financial instruments are available because they did not find a majority in the committee. i would like to make a lasting contribution to these amendments, which we have tabled as a basis and in which we have accepted the commission's definitions. i would urge that the amendments on financial instruments, for which we are introducing rules for the first time - a first definition of project bonds has been made - be accepted. we want to link the use of financial instruments to sector-specific basic legal acts. we want the relevant committees to be able to discuss and participate in the debate on the use of financial instruments. that is the point of this provision. i thank mrs brantner for the clarification in an oral amendment to amendment no 271, which makes it clear that we do not want an additional act on financial instruments, but we want to provide for it on a sectoral basis. i would like to promote amendments nos 271 to 278. we're setting the maximum liability with tax money. we must limit the risk to european taxpayers in the use of financial instruments. we owe it to the taxpayers! we are creating accountability for the commission. we want to ensure that tax havens cannot be used to raise funds for financial instruments. we also owe this to our taxpayers. we want to have a mid-term review after two or three years of how these instruments have worked and what conclusions we can draw from them. and we want to see the legal form of the instruments published on the commission's website. this will also increase transparency and ensure that we can control what we decide. it would have been nice if the commission had made these proposals itself. since you didn't make it, we had to make it. i would therefore urge that we also get a majority in this house. i would like to thank you again, ladies and gentlemen. i am glad that we are on the right track in future discussions with the council and that we are able to find solutions to what are certainly very technical and complex problems. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a very important institution in the european community for a long time. first of all, i would like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur for her self-sacrificing and very often ungrateful work, which has produced a visible result. the situation of eu beneficiaries at home and abroad is not always easy. i am convinced that the position we adopt today will make life easier for these people to some extent. let me mention briefly five points from the foreign policy area where the situation will improve. first, we also allow for flexible funding to prevent armed conflict, that is, war. until now, the eu has been able to grant funds flexibly when it declares a country in crisis. declaring a country a country in crisis is usually politically pointless. because then it's really on its way there. it is helpful for prevention if you can do this one step ahead. this is now possible - a real improvement in conflict prevention, which is usually much cheaper than what happens afterwards when war has already happened. secondly, in the field of development aid, the question of vat will make life easier for many. thirdly, i think it is important that we demand a separate budget line for all eu missions - this is an old demand, but still an important one. fourthly, we have also increased transparency, not only as regards the beneficiaries but also as regards the real purpose of the projects financed. this is particularly important in the field of foreign policy. fifthly, we give a lot of money to international organizations in the field of foreign policy. now we demand that we know at the end how much money was spent by each organization. this too will create more transparency.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is also appropriate for the shadow rapporteurs to express their gratitude and appreciation to the two rapporteurs of our house. they've dug so deep into the material that we shadow reporters have occasionally missed them. congratulations on this great job! we are also discussing article 56 of the financial regulation, which deals with shared management. this is particularly important in the european union in the field of regional policy, which is the second largest budgetary area. this is the test of whether the member states are really serious about the sparing use of eu funds, which we have heard so much about this morning in the budget debate. we see that since 1994 there have been over eur 7 billion in financial corrections in this area. and we see that in 2010 alone, over 250 million euros in necessary repayments were added to the eu budget funds that were wrongly spent in the member states. i would remind you again that this is 250 million more than the european parliament wants to mobilise through the flexibility instrument. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the financial year 1985 and whether it is not prepared to take a decision on the budget for the financial year 1985? the proposals in the financial regulation under article 56 on auditing and improved control procedures will help here. i am curious to see how the council will react to this.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to repeat that i am grateful to ms gräßle and mr rivellini for their dedication and to you all for your comments on this very complex issue of financial regulation. the commission believes that the legislative resolution should be postponed in order to find additional time for negotiations and explanations on this difficult topic. we see many of the amendments voted today as right in their substance, but some of them will be difficult to implement in reality. we should not place additional burdens on the commission in terms of management of what should be a much more transparent process for implementation of the eu budget. we will present the next simplification package in the delegated acts. as for the national declarations of insurance, the point raised by mr mulder, i do not know whether europe is ready to follow the dutch model, i have some doubts. my general remark is that, in implementing all the amendments, what is essential is cost-benefit analyses of controls, post controls and the swift and smooth management of the eu budget. i would again like to insist on the timely acceptance of proposals, so we can know how we are to spend resources before we know how much we have to spend.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank all the members for the debate. i would have liked to hear more from the council. it's a shame, but i'm sure we'll have a chance to trade places. i have not forgotten for a moment, during all this work, that every day 14 000 union staff have to take the rulebook of the budgetary rules in their hands and work with it. we therefore agree that this text needs to be thoroughly examined. it needs to be de-smeared, it needs to be made more understandable. i would like the commission to play a more active role in the negotiations than it has so far. we need the commission because we have to solve a lot of problems of detail. i would like to make a further commitment to simplification. we want to simplify, but our problem is this: you know that chart. it is the diversity of rules in the research framework programme. this diversity of rules has been created by the commission itself. i am sure that the commission has learned lessons in recent years. but we just have to make sure that we are much more consistent in the next funds. we have, admittedly, sometimes made difficult proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am surprised to hear that the commission's texts are not supposed to be perfect either, which i cannot believe. i look forward to the negotiations and i would also like to assure the colleagues in the committees concerned - itre, afet and regi - that we have taken up their concerns and are taking them very seriously, and that we will not just accept them here and then forget them, but will bring them into the negotiations in a very concrete way and fight for them, as the council has painfully learned in the afet part of the last session. we are a parliament and we also want everyone to be able to identify with this text, because everyone wants to contribute to improving the present situation. that's why, dear jens vulture, only courage. i know you're worried that we'll sink into the depths of the budgetary system and you'll be left alone. we'd be happy to give you a ride. so why don't you come into my office? i'd love to explain the whole thing to you in about three hours.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the amendment reads as follows: ‘for the purpose of this regulation, “financial instruments” shall mean union measures of financial support provided from the budget where authorised in the main sector-specific basic act, in order to address one or more specific policy objectives...’.
the rapporteur. mr president, in accordance with the rules of procedure of this house and in consultation with the political groups, i ask that this report be referred back to committee.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my office probably forgot to sign me in. i wanted to make a one-minute statement. i voted for the 2012 budget for three reasons. firstly, i consider it to be appropriate and proportionate in view of the difficult economic situation in the european union as a whole. secondly, we have made savings, particularly in our own parliamentary budget. thirdly, i expressly support the proposal of my group, which wants the house of european history to have presented an overall financing plan, a project, and then decide what this house of european history should look like. i thank the rapporteur.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was very happy to accept this report by mrs gräßle for at least two reasons. firstly, the report states that we also want to disburse the funds for approved projects within one month. this is a major relief, especially for smaller local authorities, who will be delighted. secondly, i am very pleased that we have now succeeded with the report - and i hope that we can then also implement it - so that in future the commission will also break down the personnel costs of individual support programmes, because this will then show the administrative part of the support programmes. only when you have the data and can analyse the figures can you make the necessary improvements. i would like to thank the rapporteurs once again. but i have heard today that we are going to be dealing with this report in the european parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too have agreed to this agenda. it is part of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to achieve a 75% employment rate for all people aged 20-64 by 2020. in august 2011, the unemployment rate in the eu-27 stood at 9.5%, with youth unemployment at 20.4% and reaching 40% in some member states. it's just too much. unemployment is not only a loss of opportunity, but also a waste of intellectual competence and resources for our society. given that 85% of jobs in the european union are in small and mediumsized enterprises, i strongly support the commission's proposal to promote entrepreneurship and innovation and to encourage business creation and development, in order to make the economy more dynamic and innovative.
in writing. - i was pleased to note that the proposal to reduce the general expenditure allowance by 25% did not receive a majority. the left-wing currency acrobats have been given a barrier here, which ultimately also has to do with the self-concept of the individual member. it is already degrading enough to be on 38.5% of the basic salary of a judge of the ecj as a basic diet, in line with the motto: you are not worth more. politics is not a matter of getting rich, but an emotional and fascinating activity. the basic financial framework for this should be sound. i've been advocating for years for a fee-for-service system with no social security, which is a system where everyone can do it for themselves.
in writing. - i was happy to agree to the report. galileo is a symbol of the european union's competitive strength. galileo is also a symbol of the added value that the union brings to the member states. galileo represents the europe that people at home expect from us. we cannot be 'small and patronising' but we can be globally competitive by working together. galileo offers practical advantages for users of navigation equipment. the launch is complete. now we have to move forward consistently. only when all 30 satellites are operational can we take full advantage of the benefits. we now have the responsibility for financing the next few years. we must not allow any cancellations or delays.
in writing. − this agreement will further open up common positive effects in satellite navigation and technology that go far beyond the current gps and thus have a positive impact on the infrastructure of the whole world. the contractual arrangements with the united states on a reciprocal basis are well defined. i gladly agreed.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's actually absurd. we have reached agreement on this important issue of the resettlement programme across all the political groups. many member states are already implementing resettlement programmes. that is, there is a broad consensus that this is necessary, and above all, as the current situation in africa shows, it is not only an urgent situation, but also a highly urgent one. in this sense it is actually absurd that it can fail - although there is almost universal agreement - almost only in the technical implementation. it is the responsibility of both the european parliament - we are aware of this and that is why we have put forward a proposal - and the council to take responsibility here and to push this issue forward. i have found the polish presidency to be very creative, including on the asylum package. she has brought in new proposals. i hope that you will now see the opportunity and put forward a proposal that is workable for the council, the commission and parliament, and that now that we are all in agreement, we can finally start implementing it and, as mr tavares said, we can finally make up for the time that has been wasted on some people. that's something to be aware of in this subject. there's no drama involved here, but every day we take longer could cost a life.
chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety here in the european parliament, in the chamber of the european union, is tabled a motion for a resolution to draw attention to the dangers to public health posed by antibiotic resistance in bacteria and to call on the commission and the member states to draw up an action programme to combat this danger to public health. i am the chairman of the committee, not the author of this resolution, and you can see that we have had sponsors from all political parties. we in the committee on health agree that this is a ticking time bomb, a major problem for the health of our citizens, and that urgent action is needed. we need an action plan because the health authorities in europe are on alert. the european union's specialized agencies have also brought this problem to our attention during visits to the european medicines agency in london and the ecdc in stockholm this year. in the eu, about 25 000 people a year now die of infections caused by resistant bacteria. if we look at the situation, there was a flurry of activity in the pharmaceutical industry until the end of the 1970s to develop new molecules and new active substances. since the end of the 1970s, the activities have been reduced and have come to a standstill. so for the last 40 years, if you will, we have not been focusing on this problem. we simply lack new agents to combat this resistance. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the european research area, the european research area, the european research area, the european research area, the european research area, the future and the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have mentioned a second issue where we ask you as we ask the member states to take action. antibiotics are helpful in reducing disease, but they can also cause harm if used improperly. we found that the use of antibiotics in the 27 countries of the european union is completely different. the eurobarometer survey has shown how much ignorance there is. 53% of respondents believe that antibiotics kill viruses, and 43% believe that antibiotics are good for colds and flu. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the substance of the directive. we therefore call on the commission to establish general principles and best practices for the appropriate use of antibiotics for 500 million people, for all 27 member states, and also to check whether such guidelines are actually being implemented, whether this is really being practised throughout the eu. we need a major education campaign in this area. we think we also need a functioning system of monitoring and control in this sector. ecdc in stockholm is our specialist agency. we need good data, good surveys and of course also trend analysis, early warnings about the spread of such resistance. ladies and gentlemen, we have also dealt with a last major issue: the cross-transmission of resistance from the animal to the human sphere. antibiotics are used in both veterinary and human medicine. there's strong evidence that there are cross-connections. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in this sense, commissioner, i hope that our resolution is a call for you and for the polish presidency to take action so that we can protect our people against this new health threat. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. my predecessor has made it very clear: the discovery of penicillin has brought a revolution to the world. it has been found that the life expectancy of the people has increased by 10 years. now we see this development threatened by the emergence of resistant germs. we must take this very health threat seriously, both in humans and in animals. so we need to do everything we can to preserve effective antimicrobial treatment options for the future. this is primarily - as has been said today - the result of research. we need new means. we would have used them if resistance had not developed, because a certain habit develops anyway. but a key element of these efforts must be to encourage the responsible and careful use of antibiotics in both human and veterinary medicine. this includes specific diagnoses in humans and also in veterinary medicine. this requires the use of a specific agent against a specific pathogen, rather than the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics, which is currently the norm in human medicine, and which is contributing to the developments mentioned. if we look at hospitals, the germs are in constant contact with antibiotics, and that's where these resistance issues are coming from that we're dealing with today. i would also like to draw attention to the issue of hygiene. the hygiene in hospitals - i hear that everywhere - has declined. the number of germs is increasing and in particular the development of mrsa agents. of course, public relations is the right thing to do. but it is not helping anyone to rush and fearfully ban certain uses of antibiotics without being aware of the consequences. veterinary medicine, like human medicine, depends on these agents being used. we must consider this and the consequences. if we don't put it there, what happens? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the fisheries sector. i have found that animals in large pens are healthier than those in small, uncomfortable units.
mr president, commissioner, honourable members of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the initiators. yes, it is an important resolution! i would like to say this to you, mrs grossetête, and i would also like to thank you for your willingness to speak and for your hospitality. i am also a farmer, and i want to say this to you all. but i'm not standing here as your enemy, i want to tell you that. we understand and respect the fact that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which is also responsible for health, naturally has human health first and foremost in mind. i also tell you that for us in agriculture there are questions. we also tabled a resolution on 12 may this year as farmers, and we voted broadly on the same issues. but it cannot be just about people's health and well-being. we must also think about the health and welfare of the animals. commissioner, you are also presenting a strategic plan for animals, that is also your job. and that's something we have to think about. it is important and we agree on many points: you must restrict, but you must not prohibit. let me make a note of this: i am now from germany. in our country, no farmer can use an antibiotic without first getting the veterinarian's approval and documentation. the documentation shall be retained and submitted. we also need to continue to use preventive antibiotics. mastitis, an inflammation of the ovaries, is extremely painful for an animal. now, i'm going to address the ladies here, and one or two of you might be able to relate. commissioner, you have a great task ahead of you. i would urge you to explain first what happens in hospitals, how medicines are prescribed for people, for animals, how controls are carried out, what happens to plants antibiotics are also related to plants. but think about pets, and also tell me how many antibiotics are given to pets.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. antibiotics have made a major contribution to the treatment of infectious diseases in human and veterinary medicine since their discovery. but the miracle weapon seems to be getting dull. i agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that we must be more careful and cautious in our use of antimicrobials. the aim must be to limit the use of antibiotics to the necessary treatment of infections. we also need incentives for further research and development of new active substances and alternatives. but the key is that we all pull together. i call on manufacturers, doctors, consumer organizations and farmers to drop their prejudices and finally work together! we must act simultaneously and take measures to promote the moderate and targeted use of antibiotics.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this is indeed a serious problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i very much welcome the fact that the commission will present plans to combat antibiotic resistance again this year. i believe that the commission's plans should take account of four main points. first, the careless use of antibiotics in human medicine. yes, veterinary medicine does play a role, but the reason we have antibiotic resistance in humans is mainly because of the careless use of antibiotics in humans. so we really need to get more sensitive about this, like diagnosing more accurately before we treat. we need to know what the pathogens are, then we can target them. the second is that the multidrug-resistant germs need to be identified, for example, in patients who are admitted to hospital, so that they do not spread and have dangerous effects there. the third is also animal husbandry and veterinary medicine. there's this connection. we checked with ecdc again. it's not the main problem, it doesn't affect all germs. but it's there, and that's why we have to watch it very carefully. fourth, we need to encourage industry, but also think about new, innovative rules for how we can bring new antibiotics to market. because we have this dilemma in the industry, that they're investing half a billion euros in developing a new antibiotic, and then we say, "but because this is a reserve antibiotic, it has to be in the armoury, you can't actually use it. it's not a very good business model to spend a lot of money on something that you can't sell afterwards. we need new solutions for that. we trust the commission to incorporate all these solutions into the action plan.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of sexual abuse and sexual violence against children and young people. the main objective must therefore be to protect the victims, to prosecute the perpetrators and to bring them to justice in a state of law. it is therefore good that we have found a way to tackle this injustice together at eu level and that we have a common basis for this. in the committee on culture, we attached particular importance to the principle of 'deleting rather than blocking' in addition to the issues of prevention, effective prosecution, information and also the provision of greater media expertise. i am therefore pleased that after a long struggle it has been possible to impose the deletion of websites showing sexual violence against children and young people throughout europe. the commission had proposed that the blocking be made compulsory for all member states. but it does not help a single child to prefer, as it were, a curtain. internet bans are ineffective, inaccurate, easy to circumvent and do not contribute to the fight against sexual abuse. on the contrary, they are creating a censorship infrastructure, a tool to control the flow of communications and thus also threaten fundamental rights. in germany, this has now become the norm. i very much hope that the example will be followed in other member states and that the possibility of blocking will not be applied in the member states, as the directive provides.
i have to say, madam president, the directive on the prevention of child abuse and child pornography sends a clear signal. the issue is an important one, a pan-european one, and there are uniform rules everywhere for the definition of criminal offences and also for the penalties. the need for common rules on the prosecution of offences committed abroad outside the eu remains. this also applies to common standards for holding legal entities accountable. the directive sets out specific sanctions. but a central area was internet crime. here, the so-called grooming is now punished. it is also important that all member states are obliged to work towards the removal of child pornography sites. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of personal data in the event of the processing of personal data by the community institutions is a step in the right direction. a lot of abuse happens in real life, in the immediate environment of our children. this is why prevention is particularly important, as is media literacy, so that our children and young people are also able to identify sources of danger when dealing with new media. of course, from the point of view of those concerned, protective measures are particularly important, both for children in criminal proceedings and for special support for children and their families outside such proceedings. the member states have a special duty here. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. once adopted, it is then up to the member states to implement and enforce them as quickly and comprehensively as possible. finally, a personal note: even if there is a different decision now, i would have liked the tables of correspondence to be available for all directives in future. i am personally disappointed that we are not getting this rapid overview of how to implement measures!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the directive on combating child abuse, which is now before us for a vote, is an important and positive step in the fight against the continued exploitation of many children in the european union and worldwide. we in the green group therefore very much welcome the fact that a viable agreement has been reached between the european parliament and the council of ministers. it is particularly important to provide the right political responses to a sensitive and important issue such as the fight against child abuse. i am therefore pleased that, after a thorough debate, we have been able to agree on a clear commitment to the mandatory removal of child pornography content on the internet under the rule of law. at the same time, it is right that we in parliament have insisted that an obligation to block the internet is not the right way forward. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it is not an option for us to simply ignore this suffering without taking the necessary steps to eliminate it. both within the eu and its member states and vis-à-vis third countries, this eradication of crime and abusive material must be done at source. the crime statistics show that most of the activity is not in some island nation in the pacific, but here in europe, in the united states or in russia, for example. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the prevention of crime against children. if we adopt this directive tomorrow, it will also mean a decision on the direction to take in the matter of enforcement of law on the internet. instead of highly problematic blocking infrastructures and arbitrary measures by providers, we want to create an effective framework in the european union to combat crime and abuse where they occur. we do not want to simply hide the problem at the expense of judicial proceedings, but to approach it with an open mind. a society must remain vigilant about abuse and tackle its causes outside the traditional law enforcement. we need to make a serious effort now.
i have to say, madam president, i am glad that the report by mrs angelilli has been able to bring about a sustainable and effective policy, and i would like to thank her for that. the directive is a major step forward in the fight against child abuse. however, we must not lose sight of the fact that the vast majority of crimes still take place in the closest social environment of children. the perpetrators are found in families, schools and circles of acquaintances. here we are at the beginning of our investigation. that's why our children need to be made strong. strong enough to have the courage to confide in a close person in an emergency, but also strong enough to recognize dangers such as grooming when dealing with the internet. we must therefore work together to ensure that media responsibility plays a greater role in our children's education. education is of the utmost importance, since many teachers and parents do not know what can be done with their children's computers or mobile phones. there's a lot of catching up to do. it is therefore welcome that the report also places a high value on prevention, as the authorities, but also schools and families, must do everything possible to prevent such heinous crimes from happening in the first place. this also means that the eu needs better negotiating strategies with third countries such as the us and russia. the only way to ensure that pages stored outside the eu are deleted effectively and quickly is to work closely with those countries to find the perpetrators and to send a clear message to stop child sexual abuse. once the perpetrator has been caught, the legislator has often been surprisingly lenient and has suspended most sentences only on probation. the commission is proposing to take greater account of the seriousness of the offence in future. overall, however, it is important to continue the public debate, as the issue has a wide range of dimensions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the point is, we can't put our hands in the lap. we must instead take up the mandate of all - each of us - to take action in prevention and education.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. child sexual abuse is not just a crime, it is an epidemic, a market of shame and degradation that we must dry up. we're here today to figure out the best way to do that. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the commissioner for the efforts they have made to find a common position in this house. we agreed on the principle of deleting rather than blocking websites. we have agreed to ensure the complete removal of child pornography from the internet and to leave it to the member states to block it if they fail to do so. but we have also decided not to cast a veil over what is there, but to tackle the sources and causes of this problem, and to do so above all with this directive and with the work that our colleagues have put into it. but at the same time, of course, this forces us to act internationally. mr albrecht has just made this point very clearly. most of these sites are outside europe. it's not possible that phishing sites disappeared from the internet faster than child pornography sites. it is our common task to remind states, whether european or otherwise, that they cannot shirk their responsibility to act here rather than look the other way. it must be about identifying the perpetrators, catching the beneficiaries and protecting children in europe and elsewhere in a sustainable way.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i am glad that we are now in a position to conclude the first of three agreements. i would like to see this agreement be used as a basis for speeding up negotiations with canada and the united states, but also as a model for other countries to follow. in general, however, we are always looking for the right balance in such matters, for ways of preventing criminal machinations and, on the other hand, of guaranteeing the fundamental rights of the individual and providing legal certainty without restricting functionality. however, this also includes the recognition that effective and rapid exchange of information and data is essential today to guarantee internal and external security. so it's about creating a regulatory framework for how we deal with data. i think that has been achieved here, although, as the rapporteur has said, there are still some unresolved wishes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the various guarantees that go with it, such as the powers of access to data, the right to make corrections or to bring legal proceedings, i think that protects the citizen sufficiently and also ensures effective control of state interference with personal rights. one thing we must always be clear about is that in a mobile world of international terrorism, the exchange of passenger data is an effective means of fighting crime and of improving the security of european citizens. i regret that we were not able to convince all the groups of the need for this agreement. but we would be acting to the detriment of our citizens if we did not use the means at our disposal to protect them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. that's not why we're here. i would like to thank sophie in 't veld for her excellent, resolute approach to this issue and for the transparency. i hope that their efforts will be concluded tomorrow and that an exchange of data can then take place without delay.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. passenger data is not a modern invention, but has been collected since the beginning of commercial aviation. the use of these data for border controls is also not new. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in an increasingly mobile world, in a world of modern information technology, the amount of data available today is very different from what it was 50 or 30 years ago. this is another reason why data protection is becoming increasingly important. we have achieved a lot with this agreement: a clear definition of the purpose, good standards of data protection and also clear rules on legal certainty and effective legal remedies. the switch from the pull to the push system is also important. the data is not just extracted, it is sent to australia. but we have not been able to achieve all our demands. we believe that the five and a half years of storage is an important criticism. we would have liked a much shorter deadline. so what do we do? do you agree or disagree? i would like to make two comments: our demands will never be met at 100%. so we have to weigh the options. and after a rejection, the data would still flow, but then there would be no clear rules about how to handle and deal with that data. i therefore hope and assume that this agreement will, despite some reservations, be approved by a majority tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also not clear why we cannot switch to the push system here as well. this place needs some work. we want uniform standards for passenger data in all agreements, not a patchwork of laws that treat the rights of our citizens differently.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that in the negotiations on the new pnr agreement we have naturally tried to bring about an improved agreement. the fact that there are different ideas about what constitutes a better agreement is self-evident. i think it is important to stress once again that, in our negotiations with other third countries, the european union must of course take care to adopt only acts and negotiate only agreements which are also valid within the framework of our constitution and our law. i have to say, in view of the agreement, that the agreement with australia on the transfer of european passenger data is incompatible with european law and the constitutions of the member states. on several occasions, constitutional courts of eu member states and the european court of human rights have stated: first, the unwarranted storage and processing of personal data is a violation of fundamental rights. secondly, a practice which matches people and their behaviour in a grid pattern with suspicious profiles is a violation of human rights. thirdly, the surveillance of all citizens without any suspicion is contrary to the presumption of innocence. the agreement on the table not only allows mass surveillance, but also violates the basic principles of a democratic state based on the rule of law. as the european parliament we have for years clearly rejected the existing pnr agreements. i wonder what has changed since then. the long retention periods have not changed. nor do i care about the unsuspecting nature of the data transmission. there may be differences of opinion about what happens if this agreement is rejected. we in the green group believe that there are limits, including when negotiating agreements with other third countries, including with partners, and these must be respected. i do not think that we should legitimize every proposal that comes along, but simply uphold principles.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. if our group takes a clear position against this agreement and votes accordingly, then we will know that there are of course some aspects of the agreement which are better than the proverbial pigeon on the roof, like the bird in the hand. of course we recorded it, and it's all thanks to sophie in the field. but the counterarguments weigh more. to date, there is no evidence that passenger data collection is necessary. the amount of data, the so-called data trash, makes it even harder to find potential perpetrators. we are dealing with a suspicious, unrelated and unjustified data retention, which is - as my colleague has already said - not only banned in germany. we have serious concerns that this agreement is not compatible with eu law. that is why we have asked for an opinion and put it to the vote. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is the first time that profiling has become realistic and possible, especially since this agreement does not exclude it completely and definitively. on the scope of the convention: serious crossborder crime - that's what the commissioner said - that's not a crime in australian law. there's no such thing. instead of a minimum maximum sentence of four years, a list of specific offences would undoubtedly have been more important and better. the main concern is that this agreement will be the basis for negotiations with the usa, not because the agreement is so bad, but because in australia the data is processed at least by the customs authorities when it arrives there, whereas in the usa it is the uncontrollable black box of homeland security. the agreement makes innocent people the objects of suspicion and erodes basic freedoms. my group will not be involved in this.
president of the european council. − mr president, dear colleagues, good morning, as i said to the journalist only a few hours ago. all the union’s institutions and governments have been expending significant political capital on dealing with the debt crisis. from a series of national debt crises, the situation was evolving into a systemic concern, threatening the stability of the eurozone as whole, and this threat had to be contained. this is what we have done. last night was a crucial political step which still requires, as after any such meeting, technical and legal follow-up. sometimes i hear complaints that markets do not give democracies the time we need to get things approved. there is some truth in this. but i am deeply convinced the markets will give us the time we need when they see a clear direction and a clear determination. we therefore took – yesterday and on sunday – important decisions on the five fronts where action is needed. the first front: a sustainable solution for the greek debt. we want to put greece on track so that, by 2020, it will have reduced its public debt to 120% of gdp. since july, market conditions have worsened. the new programme includes an extra effort by the official sector. a new eu imf programme of up to 100 billion will be put in place by the end of the year. it also includes a voluntary contribution by private creditors who had lent to greece. it was agreed by them last night and amounts to a nominal discount of 50% of the greek national debt. the second front: a sufficient firewall against contagion, thanks to an agreement to multiply up to five-fold the firepower of the european financial stability facility rescue fund. the leverage could be around one trillion euros, under certain assumptions about market conditions, the set-up and investors’ responsiveness in view of economic policies. we have identified two approaches for the efsf. the first one aims at giving credit enhancement to sovereign bonds issued by member states. under the second approach, the fund could set up one or several special purpose vehicles to finance its operations. each option could lead to leverage of up to four or five times. they can be used simultaneously, so as to increase the robustness of the financing strategy. the third front: we foster confidence in the european banking sector. we approved a coordinated scheme to recapitalise banks across europe. the ratio of highest quality capital will be increased to 9%. this will enable the banks to withstand shocks, which is important in the current exceptional circumstances. state guarantees to improve the longer-term funding will safeguard the flow of credit to the real economy. this is essential for the prospects for growth. the fourth front: further fiscal consolidation by those member states which need more sustainable public finances and more structural reforms. in this context, the euro summit welcomes the clear commitment of italy to achieve these objectives and to abide by the timetable it set itself. this ambitious package – in particular the measures to increase competiveness and to liberalise the economy – now needs implementation. we also commend italy’s commitment to achieve a balanced budget by 2013, and we take note of the plan to increase the retirement age to 67 years by 2026. the way to achieve this should be defined by the end of this year. finally, there is a raft of measures taken at union level to stimulate growth, about which i will say more later. i have worked hard with all the european council members – and in particular the president of the european commission – to achieve this result. together, the five elements constitute a comprehensive package and are all interrelated. for instance, the banking problems and the sovereign debt tensions were feeding each other; and we should consider the fact that achieving growth is the best way to reduce public debt. everything is in everything and vice versa. let me take one step back. i should like to underline that the decisions taken by the four summit meetings since sunday are part of a process which has lasted for more than a year. all along we had a double duty: dealing with the current crisis and preventing a new one from arising; taking emergency actions, like setting up rescue funds, while also putting together, step-by-step, a new economic governance to help avoid future problems. you too have participated in that process, for instance through the legislation on the supervision of the financial sector and, more recently, the ‘six pack’ on economic governance. your debates and the work of your committees have also furnished many of the ideas that have shaped this process and, in some cases, decisively improved the outcome. why the acceleration over these past months? before the summer, monetary union was also in a difficult situation. that is why i convened a euro summit on 21 july, which decided on a significant package to reduce the debt burden for greece and to stop the risk of contagion, thanks to more flexible use of the efsf rescue fund. the immediate political reaction to the july package was positive. however, during the summer, some doubts crept in about the package’s implementation. although these proved unfounded in the end – all 17 parliaments duly approved it within three months – the harm was done. market volatility began to grow, and this during the very days when brinkmanship in the us congress about their potential default was adding to the flames. market speculation can sometimes become a self-fulfilling prophecy. on top of this, we have had to work since july in a different economic climate. global economic growth is slowing dramatically, not only in europe but also in the united states and some emerging countries. it became necessary to take further measures, both for greece and to stop contagion, as well as to address weaknesses in the banking system. i should also like to underline that stimulating growth is an essential part of the package. sunday’s european council discussed this extensively and adopted measures to stimulate growth and create jobs. beyond the immediate crisis, we have all along kept sight of the broader picture. in the end only sustained economic growth can bring back confidence, create jobs and absorb deficits. let me come to some remarks of a general and institutional nature regarding all the economic measures. first of all, the european union is putting in place a multi-faceted reform of economic governance. people who only focus on one or other aspect, and rush to denounce them as insufficient, miss the overall picture and the interactions between the various elements. it is the overall combination of institutional pressure, peer pressure and market pressure that will help us to avoid getting into such difficulties again. all three forms of pressure have been enhanced: institutional pressure above all, thanks to the financial sector supervision and the six-pack legislation strengthening fiscal and macro-economic surveillance. i am very happy about this achievement and your improvements to it. we took a further step last night in agreeing that, for euro area member states in an excessive deficit procedure, the commission and the council will be able to examine national budgets and adopt an opinion on them before their adoption by the relevant national parliament. peer pressure has also become more effective, not just because of the new instruments, such as the european semester, but also as a result of events. today, no government can afford to underestimate the possible impact of public debts or bubbles in another eurozone country on its own economy; they would be punished by the voters. if one compares this situation with that of ten years ago, the pressure which leaders put on each other has become much more intense, as we have seen in recent days. thirdly, market pressure has also increased. markets will never again treat all sovereign debt in the eurozone as equal. they were asleep in the euro’s first decade and, even if they are currently overreacting, the markets will not go back to sleep again. let me stress that these three types of pressure to induce responsible behaviour reinforce each other. in fact, there is already a powerful interplay at work. to be even more explicit (knowing some of your fears), political pressure within the european council or the council does not undo the institutional or market pressure; no, it strengthens their impact. the president of the commission and i both have this experience. we all work in the same direction: sound budgets, lower debts, sustainable growth. that is the result the citizens expect. my second institutional remark concerns the eurozone summits. some have expressed the fear that these will lead to divisions between member states. my reasoning is simple. it is perfectly natural that those who share a common currency take some decisions together. in fact, one of the origins of the current crisis is that almost everybody had underestimated the extent to which the economies of the eurozone are linked, and we are now remedying that. moreover, monetary policy is at the heart of economic policy, and the 17 have a common monetary policy. yet we need a policy mix. monetary policy alone is not enough to deal with the situation. we cannot have a common currency and a common monetary policy and leave everything else to the states involved. that is why the 17 will have to go further. let me be clear: the eurozone is not a derogation from the european union, it is part of it. the treaty is quite clear: it is the member states which have not joined the euro which are referred to as ‘member states with a derogation’. and, of course, most of them will in due course join the euro. however, it is vitally important to safeguard the integrity of the single market among the 27. it gives the union cohesion and is the very basis of our prosperity. so we must keep the two configurations as close as possible, in a spirit of trust. i will personally do my utmost to avoid divisions between the 17 and the 27. not only is it my intention to organise euro summits, if possible, immediately following a european council meeting, but it is also the case that the commission and parliament will continue to play their roles. a third and final institutional remark: the euro summit decided to reflect on a further strengthening of economic convergence within the euro area and on improving fiscal discipline and deepening economic union, including exploring the possibility, should this prove necessary, of limited treaty changes. the full european council will revert to this issue in december on the basis of a report by myself, in close collaboration with presidents barroso and juncker. of course, any proposal for a treaty revision would also be a matter for your parliament to consider, as indeed are other possible measures. my intention is that we discuss first the ‘what’ before we discuss the ‘how’. first we should examine the goals and only afterwards the legal instruments required to get there. treaty changes are difficult. improvements are possible, and it can be useful to give the public and the markets a sense of our medium-term direction. but a treaty change is not the right way to deal with an immediate financial crisis. so we have to get the different time perspectives right. this brings me to my concluding remark, on our use of time. the european union is often charged with coming up with too little too late. the markets have the luxury of moving at the speed of a click of a mouse. political processes, even if they are working at their most rapid, cannot deliver so speedily. approval of the july package by the 17 national parliaments in two-and-a-half months is impressive by political standards, even if it is slow by market standards. as a parliament yourself, having been in a position to use several months to bring the six-pack negotiations to a favourable conclusion, you will appreciate the importance of sound parliamentary scrutiny and negotiation. moreover, at some point the request to always be faster is just not credible. in politics one needs time to bring everybody on board and tie diverse interests together in a solid package. time is the politician’s cement. yet it is crucial that we put in place rules and procedures that will anticipate problems in the future and prevent them from arising. and it is also crucial that we develop emergency procedures enabling a more speedy and flexible reaction. improving europe’s capacity to act is the best sign of mutual trust we can give to the public, the markets and ourselves. (applause)
, president of the commission. − mr president, president of the european council, honourable members, following a long but constructive meeting that was concluded just a few hours ago, i am pleased to stand before you this morning and confirm that, today, europe is closer to resolving its economic and financial crisis and getting back on the path to growth. the euro summit took solid and substantial steps that should enable europe to turn a corner. ahead of this european council, the commission demanded a comprehensive approach. we insisted that the different aspects of the crisis should be tackled together and not in a piecemeal, purely reactive fashion. we set this out in the roadmap to stability and growth which i presented to you on 12 october and also sent to heads of state and government at the same time. this roadmap was very largely supported by this parliament, for which i thank you; i am pleased to inform you that its five elements have been comprehensively addressed at this european council. we know that agreements are not an end point. they mean the beginning of a long path of hard work. but today we have a more ambitious platform on which to build europe’s future growth. let me take the five elements – briefly – one by one. first, on greece, the solution found this morning includes a credible and appropriate degree of private-sector involvement. this will ease market pressure on greece and allow the country to continue its programmes of reforms. we are determined to conclude work on a second financial assistance programme by the end of this year. second, the agreement on the leveraging of the efsf means that we have also maximised the potential of our backstops. the mix of providing credit enhancement and maximised funding arrangements will increase the efsf’s leverage effect up to four or five times. the european commission had concretely proposed, since january of this year, that the efsf should be reinforced and provided with more firepower. increasing the credibility of our firewalls is the single most crucial element of our crisis resolution efforts: the element that underpins the credibility of all our other actions. third, on banks: the decisions taken yesterday by member states will pave the way for a restoration of confidence in the european banking sector. we are working to design an approach for medium- and long-term funding of banks, while also requiring banks to hold a significantly higher capital ratio after taking account of sovereign debt exposures. the commission will continue to work hand-in-hand with the european banking authority, the ecb and the eib to implement these measures through a fully coordinated approach at european union level. i am also pleased that italy has given strong commitments to undertake further structural reforms. this is confirmed not only in a letter that the president of the council of ministers of italy sent to president van rompuy and myself, but also in the very clear conclusions endorsed by all the heads of state and government of the euro area. it is now imperative that italy implement these commitments fully, and according to a clear and coherent timetable. the commission was specifically entrusted with the responsibility of monitoring these efforts. this is where we stand on the most urgent issues. the summit decisions give us a solid platform from which to continue our work. i am also particularly pleased that the summit conclusions highlighted the role of the community method and of the commission in economic governance. in effect, heads of state and government have pledged to build on the measures of the ‘six pack’ and the european semester by strengthening the commission’s role in assessing, monitoring and coordinating national economic policies and budgets. but we will now go beyond the legislation recently adopted by this parliament. the commission is committed to a true economic union through increased convergence. today i can announce to you that, next month, we will present a comprehensive package on further deepening european union and euro area economic governance. this will include: a codecision regulation linking surveillance with efsf and esm assistance on the basis of article 136 of the treaty; a further codecision regulation on deeper fiscal surveillance, also based on article 136 of the treaty – which means it is up to the european parliament to decide, with the council, on the basis of our proposals; a communication on the external representation of the euro on the basis of article 138 of the treaty, and a green paper on euro stability bonds, as announced in my state of the union speech. we will also anticipate, in this package, the annual growth survey, to give even more coherence and focus to the preparation of next year’s economic policies. this package will give direction to the moves towards integration and convergence. it will give energy to our joint efforts – the efforts of all the institutions – and it will do so while upholding the principle of prioritising the community method. in this context, the independent and objective authority of the commission is even more important – a view often expressed by this parliament. today, i can announce to you that i intend to entrust olli rehn with a reinforced status and additional working instruments. he is to become commission vice-president for economic and monetary affairs and the euro. this is the best way to guarantee independence, objectivity and efficiency in the exercise of the commission’s responsibility of coordination, surveillance and enforcement in the area of the economic governance of the union and of the euro area in particular. i think it is also important and relevant, not only from a substantive but also from a symbolic point of view – and symbols are important – that by having a commissioner especially dedicated to the euro we assert that we want euro governance to take place within the community method, and with the community institutions. (applause) at the same time i believe that it is also important to ensure the credibility –and further reinforce the independence and objectivity – of all our technical work, not only in terms of economic preparations, but also in terms of the independent collection of statistical data. i will therefore entrust responsibility for eurostat to the commissioner responsible for audit, algirdas šemeta. these decisions will be transmitted to this house before the november plenary session, and both olli rehn and algirdas šemeta are ready to appear before the relevant parliamentary committee. financial stability, economic governance: all this is of paramount importance, but we should never forget that our goal is to promote inclusive and sustainable growth and employment. on sunday the european council devoted a great part of its work to this, and i am pleased to have presented my vision – the vision of the european commission – to all the heads of state and government. i am happy to say that most of these proposals are now reflected in the conclusions of the european council. the commission is now working on the proposals i presented in my state of the union address and in my announcement to this house of the commission’s roadmap to stability and growth. they include: getting agreement on the single market act by the end of 2012; fully implementing the services directive, and rapidly adopting our proposals to temporarily increase co-financing rates in countries under adjustment programmes. i am happy that the council has now reached this agreement, which is so important for the more vulnerable countries. i take this opportunity to urge the council, once again, to reach agreement on the programme for food aid for the most deprived persons. (applause) i think it is unacceptable that a time of social crisis, such as we have now in so many areas of europe, is precisely the moment when, because of lack of decision on this matter, we put some of the most vulnerable people in our societies at risk. for its part, the commission has also pledged to fast-track a number of proposals. for instance, on 30 november we will put forward a proposal on facilitating access to venture capital as part of the single market act. on 13 december we will propose the modernisation of the recognition of professional qualifications. before the end of this year the commission will propose a youth opportunities initiative to boost youth employment, also building on the resources of the european social fund (esf). so fast-tracking these measures – we are, for instance, very committed to speeding up everything regarding our digital agenda – is not just about recovering the growth we have lost over the last three years. it is about giving millions of europeans hope in their future. it is about restoring their trust and confidence in our social market economy. working in close cooperation with the president of the european council, herman van rompuy, and the president of the eurogroup, jean-claude juncker, i will contribute to a report that will also include some options for treaty change. i will consult widely with this house on the issue. i will meet the committee on foreign affairs and take part in other debates, as discussed earlier this morning by your conference of presidents. the european parliament has to be fully involved in such major changes. the commission has argued for many months that, to complete our monetary union with an economic union, we need stronger governance in the euro area. we need more integration, more discipline, more convergence. i have always stated that any possible treaty change should not be seen as the immediate solution to the current crisis. but it is true that, by working to embed stricter discipline and stronger governance into the euro area in particular, we may help to prevent a future crisis. while deeper integration of the euro area is essential, it must be done in a way that keeps the entire european union strong. we do not want artificial divisions between the member states of the euro area and all the other member states of the european union. the euro should remain open to all member states who may join in the future. the reinforcement of the governance of the euro area must be done in a way that ensures the integrity of the single market and the whole community acquis. this coherence and compatibility can only be achieved through the community institutions, because they are the ones mandated to act in the interests of all our member states and our citizens in a rule-based – indeed treaty-based – way. i am particularly pleased that the role of the commission in ensuring coherence between the euro area and the 27 member states was clearly recognised in the european council conclusions, particularly as regards the need to maintain a level playing field in the internal market. the bold decisions taken over the last days, and indeed over the last weeks and months, allow us to take a message to our partners at the g20 summit in cannes of a europe that is determined, that is responsible, that is united. europe will push, at the g20, for an ambitious action plan that can address the challenges and imbalances that are still hindering growth at the global level. europe strives to lead the global crisis response at the g20 but, of course, we will not have the credibility to lead if we can not show – as we have shown – that we are able to move towards a real solution for our own problems. by the end of this year, the commission will have presented all its proposals on overhauling the banking system, in line with our g20 commitments. that means over 30 pieces of legislation, all of which aim to make the sector more responsible and to restore its position as a service to the real economy. i know how much this parliament is committed to this agenda, and i thank you for your constant support. europe is also the first constituency in the g20 to have proposed a financial transaction tax, which we shall present at the g20 summit in cannes. i believe that the protest movements we have witnessed in recent weeks, from madrid to manhattan, show that this is the kind of action people expect from their leaders to ensure that the financial sector contributes to society. (applause)this type of response is of course most effective on a global scale, where it can be used to address global challenges such as the fight against poverty. this is a message i will push strongly for in cannes. to close, i would like to say that today the european union is showing that we can unite in the most challenging of times. we will demonstrate our unity, our solidarity and our determination for a european renewal. it is clear that growth and prosperity will not be restored in a day. as i said in this parliament in my state of the union address, this is a marathon, not a sprint. but today we are witnessing a level of determination that should give hope and confidence to us all. the commission will continue to make proposals for a community way out of this crisis. i know i can count on your continued support and i thank you for the support you have already shown. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. what are the realities? the realities are three decisions which are not final decisions but which are still awaiting implementation. this summit was a breakthrough, but it has not yet brought the solutions. the commission notes that the bank has not provided any evidence that the bank has been able to restore its long-term viability. the bank of england has agreed to a 50% debt reduction, but the banks have yet to agree. so there is no solution. the leverage effect of the efsf two options in the discussion, which, according to point 19 of the conclusions, are to be worked out by the eurogroup in its modalities by november. these are the three main decisions that came out at the end of the night. these are three major advances. the president-in-office of the council is telling us that a process which has lasted for more than a year has come to an end. yes, that's right. if you, mr van rompuy, and the 17 heads of government of the euro area had taken the measures a year ago, we would not be where we are today! that is the problem in this europe. (applause from the centre) the social imbalance we have in europe is being perpetuated. i read in paragraph 5 of the conclusions that it is of fundamental importance that the budgetary adjustments are carried out as planned. i'll take that. i would have liked to see it included, that tax evasion in europe is being fought relentlessly, and that the financial transaction tax is being introduced relentlessly. (applause from the centre) we will not build europe on the basis of social inequality. because this summit is an intermediate step, my appeal is this: the same heads of state and government who have now, at very short notice, under the pressure of actual circumstances, once again decided on enormous sums of billions - hundreds of billions - to stabilise banks, will be faced with a crisis if we demand a slight increase in the social or globalisation funds in the eu budget. these are the signals that are deeply unsettling the citizens of europe. (applause from the centre) you, mr barroso, have spoken of cooperation with parliament. you mentioned the community method. i was able to watch the president of the council as you said that. that elicited a gentle smile. i believe that this is also the attitude which prevails in the council. article 3 of the eu treaty states: 'the union shall establish an economic and monetary union whose currency is the euro.' two countries have opted out: denmark and the united kingdom. all the other countries have committed themselves to adopting the euro. what is the point of creating 17 but not allowing the others, who must all submit to the rules of the 17, to participate in the formation of the will? this doesn't make any sense! i therefore understand the cdu in germany, which says in its paper: 'if you combine the positions of barroso and van rompuy, you have solved this problem!' we are facing an institutional crisis. you made three institutional remarks, mr president-in-office. the first is cooperation between the commission and the head of the eurogroup - that is, you yourself - to intervene in the budgetary sovereignty of national parliaments in cases of excessive deficits, as in italy, for example. third institutional remark: amendment of the treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but one institution is not mentioned in your reflections: the european parliament, the platform of european democracy. and now i say to you, not only on behalf of my group, but i think on behalf of most of the members of this house: whatever you want to do in europe in terms of treaties, whatever you want to do in terms of executive powers, you need the european parliament for that! and since it is an interim summit, take the president of the european parliament into your deliberations, take him seriously! without this parliament there will be no treaty amendments! (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, i don't want to be in conflict with the institutions. we need the complementarity of the institutions. the institutions in europe must work together. parliament with the council, the council with the commission, the commission with parliament. but if that is so, i ask you why the european council's conclusions do not even mention the term 'european parliament'? we're ready to work with you. i hope you're willing to cooperate with us. if not, you will have to learn that the european parliament will make extensive use of its rights under the lisbon treaty! (parliament adopted the resolution)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i expressly share the feeling of relief described by mr verhofstadt, and i must say that after the crisis summits to which we are accustomed, we are almost relieved when a decision is taken. i still miss before you give us a glimpse of the eurozone summit taking over economic governance in the future an analysis of the failure on your part. i have not heard the heads of state or government ever say to greece that the programmes they have decided on over the last year have actually driven greece deeper into the crisis. my skeptical assessment is not limited to what we have seen in the last few months. i would like to reiterate my sceptical assessment of what was decided yesterday and finalized tonight. if it doesn't turn out as well as it's being described, no one should say that it wasn't imagined. because i think that you have not yet gotten away from this pattern, that you have not made enough decisions in terms of capitalisation, that the debt gap is not large enough and that the processes are too slow. the debt ratio for greece was said to be closer to 60% last week - that's what the troika said. why is it 50% now? you would also have to explain why you are betting that the creditors, who are now finally to be more heavily involved in the burden, after not having implemented the 21% debt cut voluntarily agreed in july, will now implement 50%. i still don't understand where this hope comes from. the second point concerns the recapitalisation of the banks. i think we can all agree very quickly that this is a process that cannot be trusted. at least it'll be too slow. i dare predict that dexia was not the only problem case, but that other cases like dexia will come. on the efsf leverage, which was the focus of the debate before the german summit: i am amazed at the confidence the eurozone council has in the markets' constructive handling of the leverage they have decided. i think it's a very risky hope that markets will suddenly be constructive. and i also don't understand why we are now limiting ourselves to a trillion in capital for the efsf, when we were actually sure that we needed two trillion. what you have completely ignored so far is that the economic data for the european union as a whole is negative. the economy is going down even in germany. the prospects for a stimulus programme for the sustainable development of the european economy, especially in the deficit countries, are so far very slim. this is also demonstrated by the fact that you have continued to place great emphasis on austerity and have not addressed the revenue side at all. mr schulz has already said enough about the great problem of tax evasion. this is something where you're just still not really consistent. (applause from the centre) i began by strongly criticising the functioning of the summits you are chairing, mr van rompuy. it is also important to note that despite the very deep gulf that has been explored in recent weeks, thanks to the troika and the markets, you are still not operating consistently, that more and more crisis meetings are needed and that you are taking too few decisions in the end. i therefore share the view of those who say that it is totally unthinkable that an economic government can function in the context of the eurozone summit under your leadership, with meetings taking place every six months. in my opinion, after what we've seen here in the last year, it's almost a threat. i am counting on the council to make more progress in the debate on the question of greater powers, including for olli rehn, than it has so far done. we cannot continue to make politics in this crisis with this non-transparent eurozone summit, with the undemocratic approach, with the strategy of half-truths to the citizens! (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we were promised a big break, a comprehensive solution to overcome the debt crisis. what did the summit accomplish? the greek debt crisis has entered a new phase with the agreed debt cut of 50%. this step is welcome in that it relieves the country of a significant part of the public debt. this is a positive signal to the outside world and makes the situation easier for the greek government. this step does not mean that the downward spiral of the greek economy has been reversed. the country's financial needs by 2020 have now increased to at least 250 billion euros, according to experts. nor does it reduce the catastrophic impact on the citizens. the greek banks are particularly affected by the cuts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the people of greece, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the people of greece are not left behind. as much as i welcome the fact that the main causes of the debt crisis are being used more intensively to pay off the debt, this can be risky, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises and for many ordinary savers. what assets are being taxed by the banks? i think that a socially just solution is more likely in the case of nationalised banks, whereas a rescue or the capitalisation of banks should in any case only be made subject to direct participation and even more effective control by the state. to the extent that french, german and other banks are capitalised, this should also apply in these countries. but will debt relief bring the promised lasting solution for greece and the other vulnerable countries? can this help to restore the lack of confidence of citizens and investors in international financial markets? i can only answer with faust and his famous saying: "the message from the summit i hear well, alone, i lack faith". and when i think of the general strike and the further mobilization of the citizens, i know that the greek people have lost their confidence massively. moreover, democracy itself is in grave danger, for how long can a government act against the majority of its people? this is a question which must also be put to the imf, the ecb and the council - the so-called troika - which has put greece under austerity. my doubts also relate to the financial trick to leverage the bailout fund. this will certainly raise more funds, but at what cost? the states play by the rules of the financial markets and think they have the upper hand. this is, with my permission, an illusion. the sovereign debt crisis can not only spread very quickly, but the stakes are being massively increased. and that multiplies the risk to the taxpayers. the power of international finance must be firmly put in check or the crisis will continue to develop. that's what's at stake!
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the result is indeed a good interim result, but the institutional crisis has not been overcome. we have to find out. i therefore have five comments to make in my short time. firstly, democracy takes time, mr president van rompuy. you're absolutely right. but democracy also needs clear decision-making structures and parliamentary control and it is failing to do so. second, markets are reacting quickly, faster than politics and democracy. as long as markets are driven by fear and greed and not by clear rules, we will only delay the problem, not solve it. that is why we need these clear rules, both within the european union and worldwide. that is the responsibility, in the uk, in the us and in other countries. this includes tax evasion, the abolition of betting on anything and everything and the containment of the financial market. thirdly, the responsibility for the debt crisis lies with the states themselves. this excessive debt has not been sanctioned over the past 10 years, either by the markets, the eu commission or the stability and growth pact. institutional changes are needed. inflation - as some believe by printing money - is not the answer. this is not just about dispossession, it is about the poorest and most vulnerable. inflation is an anti-social solution! fourthly, cohesion policy has failed. the structural and cohesion funds were designed to improve competitiveness. you did the opposite. one more "so" is not enough! fifthly, we must make more substantive changes to the treaties. i do not want to go into detail on each point. it is not enough, mr rehn, whom i hold in high esteem, to give him new powers. in this cdu paper, which has been quoted, we want the right of initiative for parliament and the council because the commission has been too slow and has been dependent on outside influences to take its decisions and to put forward its proposals. if we have a broad consensus there, then we will move forward. (the president cut the speaker off) ) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 19 (8) of the crp). )
mr president, that was not a question, that was a statement. we, the christian democrats, live by these values. that is the basis of our political work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we all wish that joseph daul was right when he said that it was hopefully the beginning of the way out of the crisis. but the litmus test for this question is not today's headlines, but the economic developments of the next weeks and months. paragraph 3 of the resolution reads: 'the european union must improve its prospects for growth and employment.' that is indeed true! what is missing from last night's document, however, is the question of how it intends to do this, what it intends to do to improve the prospects for growth and employment. somewhere much later, in paragraph 25, it says that the appropriate strategy is to be worked out. i hope they do. but one thing is clear, mr president of the commission and mr president of the european council: saving without investing will not get you through this winter. we are in fact in a state of stagnation today and recession tomorrow! this will be paid very dearly, mr barroso, by the people you have mentioned, who will then be without work and without income, and who will be at the end of the chain of these bad decisions. the question today is therefore: when, mr van rompuy, will you come to this house and put these proposals before this house and have them approved? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we must take responsibility for this in a situation where you are obviously prepared to limit the responsibilities of the national parliaments. that's the day's work. we'd like an answer to that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. what we are experiencing here is something we have been announcing in sunday speeches for many years. we are leaving a mountain of debt to future generations. it's not responsible. that's what all the political parties have been saying for years. we see in greece that this is not waiting for the next generation -- it is this generation that is facing this, and we see what this means. tightening the belt is painful, but we must move towards a union of stability. there's been some things that work well where it runs. ireland is on the right track. we have introduced a budgetary tue, the european semester. we have agreed a stability pact with the teeth that's good too. last night was an important step towards this stability union. we decided that the banks must be sound. they are being subscribed, they are being recapitalised, but they have to be sound with 9% equity. greece gets the debt cut. it was clear that this had to happen. and there will be a permanent monitoring of the reforms in greece. italy has announced a pension reform. we have to be clear here: we are still on the way to the stability union. all this must be implemented, realized, then we will move forward. i would like to conclude by congratulating olli rehn on his appointment as vice-president. i am quite sure that this will be an important task on the road to this union of stability.
i have to say, madam president, today's vote by the european parliament on the fight against internet pornography is a landmark for the protection of our children. we get more protection for the victims and better prevention. the measures adopted will help to prevent any abuse of children, in particular the growing phenomenon of child pornography on the internet. national laws are not enough to combat child pornography on the internet. the european union offers us a chance to prevent these atrocities throughout europe. as a young mother, it is particularly important to me that child pornography be removed from the internet immediately. i am therefore very pleased about the decision to impose the deletion as a matter of course. the new rules also create a higher level of protection for victims across europe through stronger and higher penalties for offenders. i can fully support the overall approach of the directive. the legal framework is as important as education and prevention. with this law, we are on the right track to ensure the protection of the youngest members of our society.
i have to say, madam president, i am glad that the years-long blockade by certain forces in this house against the study of the situation of christians in the east has been lifted and that we are now doing this systematically. the christian minorities in the middle east and north africa are in danger, even in countries which are happily democratizing. and who should take care of these minorities if not us europeans? we europeans are the natural protectors of these minorities. but this obligation is also incumbent on the majority companies. it was a glory of islam that these christians could not only survive but play a leading role under its rule for centuries. in the 21st century, these minorities are in danger of disappearing. democracy is majority rule, but its litmus test is the fate of minorities.
i have to say, madam president, i think that this resolution is very important because, unlike some of the other drafts, it clearly speaks of rapprochement between the eu and ukraine, not of rapprochement between ukraine and europe. ukraine is europe and always has been europe! if yesterday a leading representative of the eu said in the smallest circle that the governments of the member states could not agree whether ukraine was a european country or not, that is a scandal! unlike turkey, it is clearly a european country. but of course, she cannot join in any way at the moment. and it is a country that is, unfortunately, going backwards. it is the european parliament's job to speak clearly about this. it is not just ms tymoshenko who is being persecuted in an unacceptable way, but the opposition as a whole is being discriminated against and persecuted. we cannot accept that. it is precisely because we consider ukraine to be a european country that we are taking a critical and clear view of the developments in this important country.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in recent weeks and months, there have been many attempts - including by the heads of state and government, mr barroso and mr van rompuy - to bring the rule of law to ukraine. mrs tymoshenko and others are in prison, being prosecuted on legal grounds that no longer exist in any state of law, on the basis of a law introduced by joseph stalin in 1927, probably against leon trotsky. we must also recognize that this is a systematic attempt to discourage the opposition from running candidates and entering into democratic competitions. another step after last year's rigged elections and now obviously wanting to change the electoral system, against the wishes of the venice commission. ukraine is a european state with a european perspective. we want an association agreement with ukraine, but for that ukraine must go in the right direction and not systematically persecute the opposition and eliminate the rule of law. that is why the fate of ukraine and its citizens is in the hands of president yanukovych.
in writing. the institution of the european ombudsman turned 15 in september this year. during this period, more than 36 000 complaints were dealt with. both figures are proof enough to me that the institution of the ombudsman plays an important role in making europe more tangible and understandable to its citizens. i would like to congratulate mr diamandouros on his work. by dealing with complaints from citizens, businesses, associations and others, the ombudsman is able to identify precisely where there are areas of friction or where there are opportunities for improvement. i wish the ombudsman to continue his good work and, where possible, to improve it. for example, communication with citizens should be further improved. the commission should also try to reduce the time taken for the completion of investigations. i wish mr diamandouros every success and hope that we will continue to work well together in the committee on petitions.
in writing. − sexual crimes against children constitute one of the most abhorrent crimes, and we must do our utmost to prevent them from taking place. this report provides tools to do just that, and i welcome many of the new provisions. the main reason why i could not support this report is because it also introduces provisions which allow for access to certain internet web sites to be blocked. i wholeheartedly agree that the mass dissemination of images of abuse through the internet must be stopped; however, this can only be achieved through the removal at source of such material. however, if we want to allow blocking as a complementary measure, we must ensure that the conditions and safeguards for blocking are stringent and in conformity with our fundamental rights. this is particularly important as such provisions are being introduced in eu legislation for the very first time, and therefore set a precedent. however, the current provisions fall short of these standards because they are not stringent enough and may, therefore, pave the way for restricting internet users on a broader scale, thus leading to the censorship of the internet on the basis of intellectual property rights breaches or other minor offences.
in writing. − sexual crimes against children constitute one of the most abhorrent crimes, and we must do our utmost to prevent them from taking place. this report provides tools to do just that, and i welcome many of the new provisions. the main reason why i could not support this report is because it also introduces provisions which allow for access to certain internet web sites to be blocked. i wholeheartedly agree that the mass dissemination of images of abuse through the internet must be stopped; however, this can only be achieved through the removal at source of such material. however, if we want to allow blocking as a complementary measure, we must ensure that the conditions and safeguards for blocking are stringent and in conformity with our fundamental rights. this is particularly important as such provisions are being introduced in eu legislation for the very first time, and therefore set a precedent. however, the current provisions fall short of these standards because they are not stringent enough and may, therefore, pave the way for restricting internet users on a wider scale, thus leading to the censorship of the internet on the basis of intellectual property rights breaches or other minor offences.
in writing. −antibiotics are very specific medicines. we need to be able to see the effects. only by using it sparingly and responsibly can we ensure its effectiveness. antibiotics are used in both human and veterinary medicine. our main objective is therefore to maintain the effectiveness of antimicrobials in the fight against diseases in humans and animals. sustainability can only be achieved through greater research into hazards and risks. innovation and development must lead to new means. we adopted the resolution on antibiotic resistance in animals by a large majority in may. today's resolution is an addition to focus on the public health threat of antimicrobial resistance. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the assessment of the resistance situation, including post-authorisation, must be continuous and objective and consistent across the eu. when animals get sick, they have a right to treatment. it must therefore be possible, under certain conditions and in special cases, to treat sick animals with antibiotics.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have only one question to ask mrs de keyser: why did your group then vote in favour last week and on monday when we put this on the agenda? at that time, an eu-china summit was to be held this week, to which we wanted to make a specific reference.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. i expressly share the position of the three speakers and not that of mrs de keyser. this is absolutely the right moment for such a debate. the situation in the tibetan kirti monastery is still alarming. nine monks and one nun have burned themselves in despair. they wanted to put a flag so that we would look and not look away, so that we would talk and not be silent. eyewitnesses have reported how chinese security forces surrounded the monastery, blocked supplies of food and water, and took the monks away for so-called patriotic re-education. in april, i wrote to the high representative/vice-president of the commission, on behalf of the tibet intergroup, calling for the eu to work towards an end to the untenable situation. the service acted and received a reply from the chinese ambassador in may. he said the monks were solely responsible for the social unrest. the value of religious freedom and human rights still seems to have eluded china's political leaders. we need a detailed account of the events, including the fate of hundreds of monks who have been taken to unknown locations. the dialogue with the representatives of the dalai lama must finally be resumed and the issue of tibet is high on the agenda at the eu-china summits, which cannot always be cancelled. the monks' cries must not go unheard! the sacrifices must not have been in vain!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not today's newspaper says: "china's self-immolation again". the incidents we criticise in our resolution have taken place in the last three months. today is supposed to be the eu-china summit. next week, the chinese president will visit europe and meet the g20. yes, when is the right time to discuss these matters? it reminds me a lot of the time before 1989. there were many here at the time - and i was able to work on it - who were fighting for human rights behind the iron curtain. and it's always been the wrong time for certain people. if it was going after these people, today wouldn't be the right time. i therefore appeal to the social democrats, whom i regard as an important and constructive group in this house, to return to our community and join us in clearly defending human rights, no matter who violates them and at what time they are violated.
the commission has already done so. it has already been said here: china is a great power and therefore also very important for the member states of the european union. i know that sometimes when we discuss human rights abuses in china, some people say, "leave the chinese alone. they have a different culture, they don't have our values, we shouldn't force that on them. but when it comes to people voluntarily burning themselves, when young people, 18 and 19 years old, who just want to live their faith, have no choice but to take their own lives, then it's really not possible to keep quiet about it. it is also true that the representatives of the dalai lama are the ones who keep on calling on us and who are placing their hopes in the european parliament, even though they know that if we discuss it here, nothing will happen and nothing will change. we can only point out again and again the injustice that is being done there and appeal to all those who have contact with china to keep this issue on the agenda. because i think one thing is clear: if everyone is talking about this issue again and again, china cannot escape it, and then something has to happen!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, if mrs rafah nached is now sentenced, then this is indeed a sign of the arbitrariness, the brutality, but also of the helplessness and the paranoia - as has already been said - of the syrian state. because how can a state be afraid of a woman who is old and sick and just doing her job and helping traumatized people? what's dangerous about that? it has been accused of destabilising the state. but in this case the government, the dictatorship, knows neither one nor the other and tries to send signals which are completely misguided. it is not real any more, it is really surreal, as my colleague preda said. we have all been very happy about the arab spring and the democratization that has taken place. of course, we europeans are happy about this and we are trying to support it, also through various contacts. but we must also fight for individuals to be imprisoned for no reason. this is a real violation of human rights, and it cannot be tolerated!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sorry, i didn't hear you right. the interpretation once said that the vote on the fleckenstein report would be postponed to the mini-plenum and once it said that the debate would also be postponed. i would ask you to clarify this again.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs serracchiani. it was a herculean task to give new impetus to the stagnating process which, for the first railway package, had made virtually no progress for ten years. it is simply necessary that we mobilise crossborder transport, that competition be allowed on the railway, and that is why it is also necessary that we from parliament concentrate on the corresponding priorities in contrast to the commission's proposal. the first point i would like to mention is a strong and independent regulator, a regulatory authority which ensures fair competition, that all railway companies which are authorized also have access to the network and can provide transport services there. the decisions that are made there must not be made in 12, 24 or 60 months, but decisions must be made in a timely manner, possibly in one month, as to who is admitted and who gets a share. secondly, the financing of the necessary infrastructure measures. this is very important and we are asking the council, as mr leichtfried has said before, to agree to provide the appropriate financial resources to expand the infrastructure, whether it is the railway or the signalling, emts and security. the seven years to which mrs serracchiani referred are important to us. the calculation of track charges: fair conditions for all, clear definitions of the components of the infrastructure what are fixed costs, what are variable costs , but also the transparency of financial flows between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking, i.e. the operator. this is a crucial point for us. but it must always be ensured that, if i have to provide capital service, i can also pay reasonable interest on the income i receive from the price of the trace. we must not take an apodictic or ideological approach to this. we need in the future - and so does the commission - electronic ticketing, interoperability. no one can hide behind technical barriers any longer. safety with emts, noise reduction the aim is to get more freight and more passengers on the railway so that we can work here in an environmentally sound way with little energy and good distribution.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i also thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the complex discussion we have had. we greens are in favour of opening up the networks, not for ideological reasons, but for ecological reasons. we need to shift traffic from road to rail to stop climate change and save life on this planet. we know from experience in freight transport that the countries which have opened their railway networks have had positive experiences, in the united kingdom plus 60%, in the netherlands plus 40%, in poland plus 30%, in germany plus 25%. and in the countries that have closed, that have waited until the last minute - for example, france had a 28% loss - those vehicles are now on the road, and jobs are lost. this can't happen again. that is why we are in favour of opening up the networks. it has been pointed out that the ecj decides which model is decisive, whether the spanish model shows the future, where we have a strict separation of network and operation, but a closed network, or other countries such as belgium, the netherlands or germany, where there is still a connection. that is for the ecj to decide, and the commission will continue to do so. i would also like to ask the commission why it has waited for more than ten years and watched existing european laws being constantly violated. you should have acted earlier, not you personally, mr vice-president, but the commission as a whole has been ignoring breaches of contract and breaches of law for too long. we want the strict regulatory authority now. we know this is crucial. she needs to be strong, she needs to make decisions quickly, and she needs to be independent. we know that in germany the decision must be taken within two weeks, in italy within two months if the questionnaire is correctly completed. since this is never or very rarely the case, nothing happens there. in france, you don't get an answer for two years. that is why we need a strict regulatory authority, which is quick to take decisions, independent and guarantees openness. we want a european rail network and not nationalist companies. that is the past, we really have to look to the future. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it depends on where we invest. with large projects that are maybe 70 percent complete by 2050 or 2060 or 60 percent or 40 percent, we're not going to improve the grid. we need quick decisions where efficiency can be seen quickly and where the shift can happen. we know that italy is involved in three major projects for which cofinancing has not yet been secured. we do not want to bury money, either between lyon and turin or in the brenner base tunnel or at the bridge over the road from messina. we want efficiency as soon as possible to save the climate! we don't have time to waste. that is why we are not against large projects per se, but we want to put the money to better use. this is not only true for lyon versus turin, but also for stuttgart 21. we have seen it in germany: 20 years of construction, money is wasted, but we have no effect. this must be avoided. we must learn from the past!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the first railway package is clearly designed to ensure the profits of private railway companies. the possibility of subcontracting, privatisation of marinas and maintenance works and their operation by private companies outside the sector is intended to destroy the integrated public railway companies. although the uk experience has already shown that this is the wrong way to go, this is the way to go across the eu. this policy is not only detrimental to railway workers but also to passenger safety. i am firmly opposed to the right-wing in this parliament wanting to attack the right to strike with minimum services, despite the will of the majority in the committee on transport. the railway sector is a coherent whole which cannot be broken down into market-driven and profit-driven parts. this must not happen in any case, so that the railway sector can continue to be managed socially, economically and ecologically in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these not only provide social security for the workers, but also guarantee that more transport will be provided by rail.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the proposal before us has taken another step towards a simpler and better common rail policy. the significantly strengthened regulatory authority and multiannual financing plans will make rail more competitive and reliable. i am also particularly pleased that the rapporteur has succeeded in bringing social aspects to the fore in her report, because an integrated railway market must offer workers the same high standards of work as in the european union as a whole. in this context, it is true that the right to strike has not remained unaffected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the community's energy policy. we are now awaiting the european commission's legislative proposal. in conclusion, i would ask you all, and recommend you all, to give our rapporteur a mandate with broad support so that she can enter into the discussion and negotiations with the council. it's a good way to prepare. in this context, many thanks and good luck to the rapporteur.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs serracchiani. it was a tough piece of work for her, because this is a really difficult file. it has been mentioned: ten years ago, the first railway package was adopted, and all the member states had already agreed on how to open up the railway market in europe. the crazy thing is, in 2009, when we looked at the inventory, we found that only four states actually met that. two are from the tailor, they have no railway. so the others all failed to follow their own decisions. so we had to get back to work. it is important to note that we need a continuous railway sector in europe for the internal market and for the people. there are not only missing tracks and incompatible systems, but also legal and organisational obstacles, and we have tried to remove them in this case. the good thing is that we now have a strong regulator at european and national level. he must be independent and really able to intervene quickly. many people have said that. we also noticed: the separation of the network and the operator is a possible solution, but there is still a lot of comparison to be made of what this separation should look like in order to make it really fit in all parts of europe. that is why we are going to do it next year, but it has to be done urgently. the liberal group disagrees with one point - mr tremosa has already said so, and we have also asked for a separate vote - and that is article 6 (4). mr kuhn has already mentioned that he wants transparency in financial flows. we do not want public money to be invested in infrastructure, but in other ways. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. that is why we must vote against the last part, otherwise we have no transparency. this is not in the interests of progress in the railway market.
i have to say, madam president, the simplification of the law in this area of mutual recognition of professional qualifications is of the utmost importance. we want to make politics for the people. we want citizens to be able to move freely within the european union in their professions. there are still far too many problems and obstacles, mainly from the member states, but also difficulties arising from european law, and it is important that we address these. however, i am very grateful to mr barnier for pointing out that deregulation of regulated professions is not necessarily the answer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i wonder, should it be the doctors, the engineers or the architects? i don't know, man. in any case, regulations are important and necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the right to vote. it was the engineers and doctors who were the first to say: we need something like this to enable us to move more freely in this europe we call political union, and that is why we must say yes to it and do it as soon as possible.
the commission has already done so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. it must be easier to find a competent authority for the recognition of professional qualifications. a faster and simpler procedure for recognition is needed. it is not possible that an applicant will then have to wait several months for recognition of his profession. it is right that the knowledge of the language of the country in which the profession is to be practised should be checked. this is particularly true in the area of health and care. the same standards for professional image will certainly make mutual recognition easier. a voluntary professional card and a certificate of qualification may be useful. they also provide information on the skills acquired. such a card can also provide a basis for the knowledge that is still lacking. clearly defined checks should be possible to ensure that standards are maintained and that a professional qualification can then be recognised in another member state.
in writing. the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired abroad is an essential element of integration into the labour market and an important step towards the realisation of equal opportunities in european society. many member states have not yet transposed the directive and there are still far too many problems with recognition. this is also reflected in the commission document which forms the basis of this own-initiative report. i very much welcome this report, because it prepares the european parliament's position for the revision of the directive which is to be announced early next year. i would like to stress once again, from the point of view of employment policy, that we must put an end to the abusive practices in the member states as soon as possible! it is not possible that the non-recognition is often due to strategic considerations in order to implement a lower remuneration. there is clearly a problem of maladjustment suffered by migrant workers. the principle of equal treatment is not only violated, but the mobility of workers is also severely restricted. the european parliament should take a clear position on this when the directive is revised. i look forward to another good cooperation.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs who, through their excellent cooperation, made this report possible. the committee voted overwhelmingly in favour of the report, with 30 votes in favour, one against and one abstention. online gambling now serves a cross-border market that is growing rapidly every day. consumers can easily play online with providers that are either unregulated or licensed in other countries with different rules. this means that individual member states are no longer able to guarantee adequate protection for their consumers. children and young people or victims of gambling addiction are particularly affected. in addition, member states lose many millions of euros in tax revenue each year because of often illegal competition from abroad. this is at the expense of promoting charitable activities, combating addiction and supporting outdoor sports. finally, legal uncertainty makes it difficult for gambling to be offered across borders in the internal market. in the absence of european standards for licensing, it is necessary to decide on a case-by-case basis whether member states' practices are in line with european law. the extent of legal uncertainty is illustrated by the large number of infringement proceedings in recent years. the gap between legislation and reality must therefore be closed urgently. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has reached a clear conclusion. the member states must cooperate much more closely on this issue. but this is not enough to solve the problems i have described. the european union will also have an important role to play in the future. this is what our committee has demanded by an overwhelming majority. among other measures, consideration should be given to an eu directive setting common minimum standards for consumer and youth protection and the fight against crime in the field of online gambling. the committee stresses that the principle of subsidiarity is underlined in the report on online gambling, but that member states should regulate online gambling on their own territory as far as possible. however, according to the case law of the european court of justice, certain rules must be observed: restrictions on the legal supply of gambling, such as those imposed by state monopolies, are only permissible if they are coherent and proportionate. it is not possible for a state to justify its monopoly by protecting consumers from the negative consequences of gambling and at the same time to promote its state offerings. the best example is germany, where we have a state monopoly on gambling and lotteries, but advertising always points out how big the jackpot is, and this, of course, encourages players to invest their money in lotteries. in order to avoid such cases in the future, the european union should define uniform quality standards for state licensing models. if a member state chooses a public licensing model, it must respect the principles of transparency and fair competition. thus, all operators of games of chance who fulfil the conditions imposed on them should be able to apply for a licence. at the same time, trust between national regulatory authorities needs to be strengthened in order to achieve enhanced cooperation. the commission is also invited to examine how to prevent the flow of payments between illegal providers and their customers by law. this could be done, for example, by each member state drawing up a white list of gambling operators licensed in its territory. banks and credit institutions would then be expected to only authorise transactions with these authorised operators. i think this is a sensible and workable alternative to blocking websites that we as liberals reject. in addition, this measure would make an important contribution to safeguarding tax revenues from legal gambling, combating organised crime and protecting consumers from unregulated gambling. the measures called for in the report would benefit everyone: regulated providers, public authorities and consumers. nevertheless, the european commission needs the full backing of the european parliament to be able to put forward the necessary initiatives. i therefore hope that a broad majority will be found for tomorrow's vote with a clear mandate for the commission to act. commissioner barnier, please take over.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i am not going to go into detail. demographic change is one of the mega-themes of our time. for example, in germany, one in two girls born today will live to be 100 years old. my 13-year-old daughter is thrilled. but of course, the policy must also respond to this very circumstance, draw consequences and set political conditions. my report, which we are voting on tomorrow, deals with some of these consequences and conditions. it is not about social issues such as pensions. the regi committee simply does not have the authority to do that. but it is about what european cohesion policy can do and how we can shape the cohesion policy of the future to address the important issues there. i would like to mention four areas which we have mentioned in the report. firstly, we need to make european cohesion policy more responsive to demographic change than it has been in the past. the europe 2020 strategy and legislative proposals do, however, play a fairly important role in demographic change. now, when implementing, we must also ensure that the issue remains on the agenda. secondly, the infrastructure sector: we need an infrastructure that is suitable for the elderly in order to avoid social exclusion. this includes, for example, the accessibility of public buildings. and besides, other groups of people will also benefit - families with small children, for example, or disabled people. at the same time, we must make areas affected by migration more attractive, especially for young families. the third area is the elderly, children and families. the number of older people living in europe's regions is increasing. regional policy must also respond to this. i believe that this includes the promotion of so-called multi-generational houses, but also erdf and esf support in the social, health and care sectors. and when it comes to preventing migration, i think that qualified full-time childcare is very important. it's a pity that the majority of the committee opposed the demand to offer free childcare. i wish i had more courage. the fourth is employment. the fight against unemployment among women and young people must be the priority. we have a generation of young women who have been the best educated generation in all of europe. if these women do not have a chance, we will, in a sense, be producing the skills shortage ourselves. it is also important that we make much more use of the knowledge and experience of older people than we have done in the past. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i think we can all agree that we need to actively shape demographic change, not manage it. european regional policy can make a major contribution to this. i thank all the members of the committee who have contributed to this report. it was a long journey, and some of us have grown old, some have even retired. but the work paid off. i think we have produced a good report and i hope that the plenary will adopt it by a majority tomorrow.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. public services are a fundamental pillar of our european social model, playing a crucial role not only for the individual citizen but also for the prosperity of our whole society. the revision of the eu rules on aid for services of general economic interest should therefore focus on the following question: what are the conditions for ensuring the highest possible quality of these services and universal access for all sections of the population? the provision and organisation of such high-quality public services is based on the need to ensure certainty for service providers and public authorities as regards the legal framework and to ensure greater proportionality of the rules, so as to take better account of the diversity of public services and thus reduce administrative burdens. reform of eu state aid rules can therefore only take place in the light of the specific function of public services and in strict compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european network of national authorities for the protection of the environment. the legal basis for us social democrats would be article 14 of the treaty of lisbon. but as we know, positions in the european parliament have been very different on this point for years. nevertheless, in keeping with the subject of this report, we have succeeded in finding a compromise acceptable to almost all parties. the administrative burden of compensation to public service providers is currently too high. this is particularly true for small public authorities and service providers. the increase in the thresholds for exemption from the obligation to notify the european commission in the event of compensation being claimed, which we are calling for, would provide a first relief. the aid rules must be designed in such a way that the administrative burden for local authorities and service providers is proportionate to the potential impact on the european internal market and competition. the special de minimis arrangements we are proposing, i.e. a general derogation from the rules on purely local services and social services, are an important basis for this. in order to better reflect the special role of social services, we call for their role and character to be clearly defined and protected. in addition, this report clearly rejects the european commission's proposal to introduce efficiency criteria in the provision of services as a condition for compliance with eu competition rules. the european commission is overstepping its bounds here, since its sole competence is to control aid. the economic conditions are the responsibility of the member states alone and can only be regulated at european level with the involvement of the european parliament. i would like to conclude by thanking my colleagues on the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for the excellent inter-party cooperation they have shown in this connection. the clear vote in committee for my report is evidence of this results-oriented and solution-oriented cooperation. i am therefore confident that we will also succeed together in sending the european commission another strong signal from the european parliament for a sustainable and future-oriented framework for public services at the vote in plenary tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the crisis is precisely the moment when we are showing what kind of european union we really want. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it in the future. do we see ourselves as having a shared responsibility to fight poverty and social exclusion? or are we going to opt for a union such as has just been outlined by the colleagues of the extreme right of this parliament? i sometimes think that the attitude of the member states, and in particular of some of the governments of those member states, is dangerously close to the vision of a european union as it has just been formulated by the extreme right. we have to make sure that the european union is not a mere mere institution. spongy phrases wherever you can. their report makes this very, very clear on many points, and i think we need to be much stronger here. what we need is an immediate halt to the sell-off of public goods, the sell-off of social security systems. we need minimum social and environmental standards. with winter coming, we must not allow the rise in energy prices to force people onto the streets, evict them and freeze them to death. we have a common responsibility here, the responsibility of the european union. we must stand up for this and not for this nationalist nonsense we have heard from the right.
i have to say, madam president, one hundred million people in the eu are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and one in five are unable to meet basic needs. there is a lack of financial resources for food, shelter and clothing. the past year of the campaign against poverty and social exclusion has created a new awareness of the situation of those affected and provided a variety of impetus: decent work, the introduction of minimum wage levels, access to affordable health services, actions in socially vulnerable regions, integration projects for migrants. the member states have the primary responsibility for establishing solidarity with the most vulnerable. but at european level, it is about funding, it is about coordination. the european platform is part of the europe 2020 strategy and one of seven flagship initiatives. the savings measures taken in the wake of the economic crisis, which are necessary to safeguard the future, must not, however, be at the expense of employment and social protection. the efforts to promote basic education, training and integration into the labour market must continue. we all have a responsibility to make sure that the weak don't look like losers. that is why we must not stop, even in difficult times, from putting into practice our fundamental values of solidarity and justice.
i have to say, madam president, the report is a good report and an important step in the right direction. the fight against poverty and social exclusion is a responsibility of the member states, but in the past national governments have not acted with sufficient ambition and there has been too little concrete action. warm words are not enough. the current austerity policies in europe, at the expense of social budgets, are also creating new and more poverty. in the employment guidelines and the europe 2020 strategy, we have committed ourselves to reducing the number of people at risk of poverty by 20 million. i believe that a key element in this is employment, and good employment. 8 per cent of european workers are poor despite working, and 22 per cent of people at risk of poverty in europe are employed. that's a quarter of all people. that is why we must work towards fairer labour and social standards and minimum wages.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the cohesion policy is of great importance to all regions in the future, with great agreement in both parliament and the commission. i would like to ask the commissioner how the commission intends to ensure that flexibility in the regions is actually guaranteed, with the particularities of each region and its different developments, when everything is actually regulated in the regulations with a precise percentage and there is little scope for the actual specificities of the regions.
does this mean that a region which has already made a great deal of energy efficiency is not obliged to do so, but could invest in research facilities, and this could then be set out in the partnership agreement?
my question is addressed to the two commissioners on the structural funds and the esf. question to mr hahn: i welcome, also on behalf of the greens, that you have the percentages for the low-carbon economy, but what about mainstreaming for climate protection? and my question to mr andor is: do you have the courage to give the member states percentages in relation to the esf? we greens would welcome that. we believe that investment in minds is urgently needed, but it seems that even this is not very convincing in this house, even in the social democratic ranks. i would like to ask you to give us some reasons why you are setting these percentages and why you are setting these new priorities.
your proposals strengthen the social partners and civil society. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how will they be able to do this work before the new regulation comes into force?
member of the commission. − first, a word about the peace programme: you can assume that all three donors are in this together. i'm confident we have a solution. there is no need to call each other on this. all those involved know how valuable the programme is.
member of the commission. - i am well aware that the common agricultural policy is the only economic policy that is truly community in character, the legislation we are going to decide together at european level will have a wide impact right down to the farmer and that therefore all this diversity of 27 member states must be taken into account. - this is the first time that this reform is being done for 27 member states - and that therefore until the end of the decision-making process, we will have to sit around the table several times. but i think we have already made a good start with some legislative projects under codecision in the framework of the common agricultural policy, including the dairy dossiers which you are running, and with this experience i think we will be able to harmonize the proposals put forward by the commission in the coming months of 2012. but i'm well aware of that. we'll sit around the table as many times as it takes.
member of the commission. − but as i explained this type of ceiling applies to large agricultural enterprises since from 2014 the justification for these direct payments which were previously based on historical references, i.e. on the level of the subsidy received in 2003, during the last reform, is a basic support to farmers' incomes, given the specific economic situation of agriculture in that period. but starting from a certain amount, we cannot justify that for very large companies we give more than 300 000 euros, 400 000 euros, 500 000 euros, or even 1 million euros as basic income support, because that is already the return on capital. such a company can be efficient by using, in addition to this direct support, which will be limited, other financial instruments of the common agricultural policy, such as investment and modernisation aid, to make them efficient. so it is precisely to meet parliament's request for more transparent, clearer and better targeted financial support that this proposal has been made. but the money that is released from this ceiling remains in the respective member state, so the member state that has large farms is not affected from a budgetary point of view because the money remains in the member state and goes into the rural development programme under which the member state can finance large enterprises, small enterprises, agri-environmental measures, investments, etc. so it is just a matter of more transparency and more flexibility and more efficiency in the use of community money.
member of the commission. - i do not think that large farms will be discriminated against by this measure, since it applies to all large farms, whether in eastern or western europe. it cannot be said that a large farm is discriminated against against a small or medium-sized farm, because the role of this direct aid is precisely to support farmers' incomes. for a large operation, from 300,000 euros if it has jobs, these will count. for example, if a farm has 20 jobs, the cost of maintaining these jobs will be added to the eur 300 000. this supports employment in rural areas. if a farm goes into agriculture just to get subsidies, and if it splits up to get even more subsidies, i think there is an economic problem at the farm level that has other objectives than economic performance. if the objective is to hunt for subsidies, i think there's a problem. on the other hand, if a holding wants to be economically efficient under the common agricultural policy, it can be supported, as i said, by other types of measures which specifically target economic performance, reduction of production costs, promotion of products on the market, etc. the common agricultural policy does not only provide subsidies, but also other measures which will enable farms, including large farms, to adapt more effectively to the current economic situation.
i have a question to commissioner hahn concerning the delegated acts. these delegated acts play an important role in the cohesion documents and i am also aware that delegated acts are necessary to implement many issues. there is also the possibility of withdrawal by parliament and the council - all is well. but i think that it is a little bit out of date and that such things are being done on matters which we as parliament should be deciding together with the council. an example is the common strategic framework, articles 10 and 11 of the general regulation, which sets out objectives for support from the cohesion funds, major challenges at the territorial level and central actions. my question is: why, for example, did you choose this delegated act over the ordinary legislative procedure in such an important document? but perhaps you can say something in this context about the problem of delegated acts in general.
member of the commission. − we are careful about this instrument and apply it where we need to be operational. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we must look at the substance of the proposals and concepts we are able to develop and work out here. i'm very confident. it is the first attempt to bring together the various funds with shared management under one roof. we should look at what proposals we can put forward here - i suspect next january - and then see what the treatment is going to be. i also expect that we will at least discuss the substance of this question in the relevant committee of the parliament.
commissioner hahn, you have already said a great deal about macroeconomic conditionality. they say it's probably not going to be used or just in case of emergency and such. but i ask you: have you put a safeguard in place, or can it be prevented that particularly disadvantaged regions, which in the event of such a conditionality, if it occurs, and indeed if the money is lacking, do not actually suffer disadvantages?
member of the commission. - there is no guarantee that this will not happen. i would like to stress once again that it is an absolute ultima ratio if all the measures at the top do not come to fruition. i am confident and expect - and this is the experience we have had so far - that the countries concerned will respond to the proposals and guidelines put forward by the commission and then by the council and will try to improve the situation. that is precisely the basis for not implementing this measure in the first place. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is also clear from this proposal that when this instrument is applied, it must be applied in a proportionate and appropriate manner to local conditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this too should be taken into account when applying this instrument. but again, and this is my unequivocal belief: it is a last resort instrument. this must also be seen against the background that we have here, in the context of the six-pack in the eurozone, an opportunity that does not include the other non-euro countries, and that it was also a requirement of fairness and balance to propose and create an instrument that, in theory, can ultimately include all 27 countries.
member of the commission. - i don't have the exact figure to tell you who reimbursed how much but i can tell you that there is a very precise follow-up on this use. member states must pay these penalties from one year to the next in the clearance of accounts. each member state subject to penalties shall be monitored. in certain situations, where the amounts are very high and the member state concerned cannot repay all at once, a phasing over a certain period may be proposed. this is the case, for example, in greece. but the situation is still being monitored very closely. if you are interested in more precise information, i can give you, possibly in writing, the exact situation in which we find ourselves. in any event, the commission submits a regular report to parliament on the execution of the penalties.
member of the commission. − the main control element we use for direct payments is the parcel and farmer database. on these issues, the checks carried out by my services in the member states concern both the quality of the checks on the ground and the quality of the reference database for these checks. for those member states where we find a problem with the quality of the database, we apply, in the first few years, penalties proportionate to the level of error found through the audit carried out in the field. if at the end of the second or third year we find that these errors persist, we ask the member states for corrective plans and if these are not implemented, we block the funds. we've had situations where we've blocked funds. for each member state we have these very precise monitoring instruments. we can go as far as to withdraw the accreditation of a payment agency that does not have the correct databases or does not have the capacity to do checks; but in any case, as soon as we see that the level of error in the field exceeds a certain minimum ceiling, we take these measures: payment of penalties, first, then the demand for an action plan, second, and finally the blocking of payments, third.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's very nice that we have the opportunity to discuss with you both today. i would therefore like to ask about the approach of the multi-fund system, which should be possible in the new financial period, i.e. that projects be designed jointly by both the structural funds and the rural development fund. what are your thoughts on how this could be done in the application and design? what ideas do you have to avoid bureaucracy and to ensure that the checks are carried out? as regards the question raised earlier, is the obligation to pay a fixed price relevant here too? it is a very good approach, but i think we have to think very carefully about how it can be designed and how people can then be involved so that they see this as a plus for europe.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. this multi-fund approach refers to the possibility of joint use within an operational programme, in particular between the regional development fund and the social fund. it is not intended that there should be an operational programme where the rural development fund is also integrated, but the multi-fund concept refers to the two funds i have mentioned, the erdf and the esf. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. in this respect, it should therefore be a bureaucratic and processing improvement for the end user, by making it clear what is used for what and by avoiding overlaps in the programmes, so that the additional element is guaranteed. but as i said, multifund in the strict sense of the word refers to the two programmes, erdf and esf, which can be used within an operational programme.
member of the commission. − as regards the coordination between the rural development instrument and the other structural funds with the partnership contract between the commission and the member states and the regions, this will enable us, in the strategic development phase for the use of this fund, to ensure that a region can clearly ensure the complementarity between these different programmes to cover the problem it has to solve. in this case, member states and regions will have to develop indicators to show how they will achieve certain objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy by using the different funds in the different sectors of society's economy. this will enable us, in the strategic planning phase, to ensure that coordination and to discuss it clearly at the level of the commission services with the various services of the respective member states. this is where coordination with the partnership agreements will be better from 2014 onwards than it is at present. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the community's activities is not undermined. in agriculture, however, it was decided to make the granting of these subsidies conditional on compliance with legislation which already exists. but here too, with the legislative proposals now on your table and that of the council, an attempt has been made to simplify and clarify the ecological conditionality measures applicable to farmers. whereas previously these measures were contained in different directives and regulations, we have now grouped them together and specified what is required of farmers and what is required of the authorities to check. the number of measures has also been reduced by eliminating those which were not of environmental or economic relevance and interest but had a higher administrative cost. the simplification document, which i have already sent to the members of parliament's committee on agriculture, contains all the details relating to the simplification of cross-compliance.
thank you very much for this first reply. the additional question concerns the continuation of the interreg programme. how much weight do you give to how important it is to you and how important it should be to all of us to have crossborder action in the programmes? in this context, the situation with regard to a danube strategy: what possibilities for programmes and weighting do you give to this strategy?
i have to say, madam president, we are all aware that demographic change presents us with numerous challenges. it is now up to the rural areas in particular to develop concrete measures to take advantage of the opportunities that this change will undoubtedly bring. the aim is to make rural areas as attractive as possible. this means, first and foremost, that sufficient jobs must be available for young people to counteract trends towards emigration. in addition, the public institutions must also adapt to the ageing society. our rural regions should be and remain a home. cohesion policy must make a major contribution to this in the future. and yet, in future too, it will be a question of balancing between demands that we can meet and demands that we simply cannot meet.
i have to say, madam president, no one would think of taking out fire insurance on a house if they don't own a house, unless they're interested in seeing their neighbor's house burn down because they want to collect the insurance premium. and then you would call such a man a fraud, he would be imprisoned. i think what's true in real life should be true in the stock market. i am therefore very pleased that the regulation we have adopted today has severely restricted the sale of short selling throughout europe. the highly speculative transactions in government bonds have in the past demonstrated the dangers they pose to our financial system. what you don't own, you can't sell, or what you don't own, you can't insure. it is therefore particularly important that we now have agreed uniform rules for all of europe to deal with these transactions. the new regulations must now enter into force as soon as possible and be strictly monitored. and the call is not just for europe to ban these things, but for the world to ban them.
i have to say, madam president, fruit and wine production is of great importance in the european union. i am very grateful to mrs nedelcheva for the fact that it has been possible to simplify the rules on statistics on permanent crops, because statistics - we all know this - are necessary, but they are also a source of pleasure for those concerned, our farmers, not only because they are also associated with a great deal of bureaucracy. it is particularly important to me that micro-holdings have been excluded from this statistical system and that the administrative burden has been kept as low as possible for all the holdings concerned. our stated aim is to make agricultural policy simpler and more transparent. regulations that are not sensible or out of date must be abolished. we have made some progress with today's report, but we will of course have to continue to review our own rules, our own regulations, on this point, namely the reduction of bureaucracy.
i have to say, madam president, i have of course just taken note of your statement with great interest. i would like to point out, however, that i indicated to you by hand before the debate on the reports began that i wished to speak. i don't know why you didn't see it. your employee just told me. the question is whether this really has to be in writing or whether you can do it orally.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank you very much for the interpretation of the rules of procedure which is so friendly to members, and i would like to add to the progress of mrs mcclarkin's report on the implementation of the recognition of the vocational qualifications directive: i believe that the report we have adopted today also reflects the concern expressed by mr tannock, because we attach great importance to the creation of greater mobility in the european internal market - greater mobility for the professionals who want this mobility - because in the long term we can only really create a common monetary and economic area in europe if professional qualifications are universally recognised and if those who hold professional qualifications can really move freely in europe. the commission has to make a number of proposals to maintain automatic recognition and to ensure that the internal market information system, which is used by the member states to recognise professional qualifications, can be relied on. there's still a lot of work to be done here.
i have to say, madam president, this report goes a long way towards saying that the single market is just around the corner. many mayors, many authorities, many officials underestimate the importance of the effects of the single market right down to the home. that is why we are moving in the right direction with this report. we are calling for a distinction between economic and non-economic services of general economic interest. this sounds very complex, but it can become very concrete in the end, when it comes to the fact that certain bus services, certain measures of social housing may in the end be supported in a small way by local politicians, but of course the general principles of the internal market must also play a role. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. secondly, i am extremely pleased and grateful that it has been possible to eliminate article 14 as the basis for the rules on aid. the european parliament has made a clear statement on this, thanks also to our efforts in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. this will be very helpful to the further development of the debate.
in writing. − the report provides an assessment of the current situation in air transport and makes a number of simplifications and improvements for the future, so that air transport between the eu member states and georgia can significantly improve and grow. as a reporter, i want to thank all the staff and the shadow reporters who supported me.
in writing. the report by mrs westphal on demographic change was not acceptable to the greens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the report is not a reflection of the citizens in particular. it is true that demographic change has a female face. in most member states, it is women who have to choose between children and careers, who do the most unpaid and unrecognised family care work and who are therefore the largest group of the poor in old age. the committee on women's rights and i, on behalf of the green group, have taken this into account in amendments. however, the rapporteur has rejected all these amendments and has favoured a completely outdated family picture. one where the women are the free care workers, as they used to be. the unilaterally restrictive approach adopted in the report on migration is also not in line with the position of the greens. we want to have a regulated but not restrictive immigration policy in europe. the compromise amendments on urban development and areas of emigration also contain our amendments. that is why we abstained from voting.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of 'demographic change' is of enormous importance for my home region of saxony and for the eu as a whole. saxony lost 13% of its population between 1990 and 2005 and will lose another 11.4% by 2020. the reason for this is migration, but above all low birth rates. demographic change affects almost all areas of life, especially the economy: the continuing vocational training of younger and older workers is becoming increasingly important. but of course the infrastructure sector and many services are also affected. many regions of the eu are affected, not just us in eastern germany. the eu's structural funding is therefore an important aid. in the current funding period, some eur 30 billion is earmarked for this purpose in the regions' ops. this must also be taken into account for the new funding period from 2014, as the report i have endorsed calls for. this can be support for the training and further education of young and old people, support for young families, or adapted urban and regional planning, such as promotion of buildings suitable for the elderly. we now need to ensure that the distribution of funds takes account of these challenges and that the regions are given sufficient scope to shape their own policies accordingly.
in writing. - i have approved the report. for the first time, it sets out rules and limits on short selling, which is something that the majority of the eu population cannot imagine. this is the right way and the beginning of an orderly, though no longer entirely free, flow of money. regulation is important because this is where the much-vaunted markets have failed completely. if, on the contrary, the taxpayer and therefore everyone else has to bear the risk, we also have the political right and even the responsibility to intervene in a regulatory way.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report and i think that the content and ideas of mr creutzmann are correct. i am not sure that we will be able to keep servers and operators from third countries out of europe or to regulate them. the future will tell us how far we can get away from more or less illegal gambling, or whether new avenues will open up.
in writing. - without enough bees, we can hardly imagine successful agriculture in the future. because bees are valuable insects, without which there would be no pollination of crops and therefore no food production. for this reason, we must take the steady decline in bee populations over the years as a clear warning signal. the bee is important to us humans and our ecosystem. so it's our job to protect the bee. investment in research to identify the causes of bee mortality is urgently needed to enable appropriate countermeasures to be taken. we must also work with beekeepers so that young people in the future will also want to pursue this profession.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have too often led these debates on the commission's work programme to say that i am impressed. i have the impression that there is a lot of business as usual in this proposal for a work programme and that it does not really do justice to the situation in which the european union finds itself just 14 days after the last crisis summit, which was supposed to bring about a breakthrough. the fact that we now have two old european countries that have to be run by technical governments is an expression of a decline in democracy within the european union that simply needs to be appreciated and also needs to be appreciated in a self-critical way. i think that this is also a community debt, and laissez-faire towards markets, laissez-faire from brussels towards deficit countries, but also towards surplus countries, is also your responsibility. a credible programme of work needs an introduction to this situation. i do not think that papandreou, for example, has failed only because of papandreou, but also because what was decided in brussels on crisis programmes was too one-sided and that we must acknowledge - and we must, damn it, finally do so - that programmes which rely solely on austerity and which do not seriously tackle economic development for the deficit countries at the same time are doomed to failure. this will be no different for technical government - not in italy and not in greece - than it has been in the problem countries. we all like to hear your ideas on the community method. but i'm supposed to believe that? i think the appreciation of olli rehn and that he should have more to say is good. but what does that mean if herman van rompuy is also being promoted? so we are always taking a step towards the community method, but at the same time the summits are also taking two steps away from the community method. and if all the crisis instruments are outside the treaties, how is the community method supposed to work? it is also necessary to talk about this when you are here promoting your ideas on the community method. i have heard of you for a long time now in the energy and climate sectors. i do not want to repeat what i have said many times. we are in a very bad way before durban! we have not taken any measures that would serve to achieve the 2°c target that you have so often invoked. i have already said in the small group the other day that green growth in agriculture, for example, does not mean what the good commissioner cioloş wants, but that means more concentration, more large farms, fewer farms, fewer jobs, more mass livestock farming, more monocultures, less value added for individual farms, more environmental pollution, more dependence on imports! this is not what i envision in green growth. i believe that green growth in this programme of work is a real etiquette fraud because it is not at all consistent with the individual regulations you are preparing. to joschka fischer, very distinguished colleague: i fully share your assessment as a green. i cannot take seriously anyone who is making such arbitrary pirouettes and speaking of the united states of europe and then coming up with this petty proposal a week later.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i must say frankly that i am increasingly disappointed in the work of the commission and also of the president of the commission, because in the difficult situation in which we find ourselves i still lack the european conviction and really the initiative for new ideas. you know, i'm third generation since world war ii. my two- and four-year-old children are the fourth generation. we've learned that the worst disasters in this world are quickly forgotten. i first heard about this when we were in japan with the international trade committee. there are warning stones all along the coast, reminding of the great tsunami disasters of the past. everyone knows that tsunamis strike everywhere, that they go deep into the interior. but they built nuclear power plants and other things. tens of thousands of people died in the earthquake and tsunami because people knew about all the bad things that happened in the past, but they didn't take them seriously and didn't act on them. i worry that here in europe, three or four generations after world war ii, we're doing the same thing. mr president of the commission, we are really in a crisis and you are presenting a commission work programme which is almost identical to that of last year. i am convinced that you are not going to make any substantial changes. when will we finally enforce european law? when will we, for example, force countries to finally comply with european standards? if we are discussing the euro, for example, why has no one asked sweden to finally adopt the euro? the european treaties could be enforced here! why don't we start initiatives that tackle new issues, that set up a european union in a way that involves citizens, that creates new initiatives and that doesn't just go on as if nothing had happened. i must say i'm very disappointed. the work programme for next year is also a disappointment. i'd be very grateful if we could make some improvements here.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to say, as many of my colleagues do, that the commission's central task for 2012 is nothing less than to preserve the european union. to do that, we need to develop them together. yes, we need more europe! we must stand together in the interests of our citizens and not allow individual member states to be attacked by financial capitalism. but this more europe must not mean less democracy. the year 2012 will undoubtedly be the year in which the foundations will have to be laid for the future development of the european union, which may then already be close to a state. but in this europe of states, the council and the commission cannot decide by decree. the commission's contribution to the 2012 convention must not be a disempowerment of citizens and their parliaments, but a more democratic europe, focused on peace, ecological change and social progress. do you not see that you, mr barroso, and the commission are increasingly being seen as the enemy of the people of greece, portugal and italy? the council has successfully made you a scapegoat. brussels is ordering the privatisation of social property, the reduction of wages and pensions, the abolition of protection against dismissal - pure neoliberalism. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission must be made the ally of the citizens. protect the people from the effects of greed, join us in 2012 to finally ban the business model itself, to drive entire nations to ruin with usury! stop feeding the predators and instead direct the funds to much-needed investments for the future, and make the financial transaction tax a touchstone!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the commission! the commission's work programme speaks very clearly about the challenges we face, at least in the headings. but the crucial challenge today is to keep the europe of 27 together. and here i think we must go a little further than the commission is proposing, and i can agree with what mr seeber has just said. i would also like to make a few specific suggestions so that the whole thing does not remain so vague. i believe that the commission needs better coordination of a horizontal nature before proposals are put on the table. there was a lot of applause earlier when the president of the commission mentioned the directive on general product safety. the only thing that has not been clarified is which directorate-general will be responsible for monitoring products in the internal market. should it be the enterprise and industry dg or should it be the health and consumers dg? something like that would be extremely helpful. and you have given examples of how effective coordination can work within the european commission with the single market act. the second point is that the proposals you make will only work if they come quickly and if they are actually used and implemented effectively. that is why we in the epp group want at least half of all the proposals to be in the form of a regulation, so that the member states cannot make any mistakes in their implementation. thirdly, mr president of the commission, we also want the programme to continue to reduce the burden of red tape on small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has done a good job, 25% is gone. but this process can certainly be continued, even if the rewards are now a little higher. finally, mr president, i believe that we also need to pursue infringement proceedings consistently in the area where member states have failed to fulfil their obligations under the european treaty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am particularly looking forward to your dossier next year, commissioner, namely the reform of the staff regulations. i hope that we can take some steps towards a more efficient european public service. i would like to say that we budgetary controllers have been accustomed for years to the fact that the question of budgetary control and the implementation deficit plays too small a role in the commission's work programme. 2010 the last year that the european court of auditors has now audited we now have ten years of serious enforcement deficits, because two countries are at the top with a huge proportion of irregularities, i.e. of irregularities in the implementation of eu funds. it's been spain and italy for ten years. i wonder how many more years we'll have to go on like this, never changing anything. i therefore warmly and urgently ask you to take action on this very point. i mean, we can't go on like this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
a writer. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament is tabled this week with a resolution containing comprehensive proposals for global, international climate protection. mr president, i know your commitment to climate action and it would be great if you could come to durban with the parliament's delegation. but i know the constraints here in the house on the 2012 budget. but we have a strong delegation in durban to lobby and pressure to make sure that climate action does not come to a standstill, but that it does make progress. i thank the sponsors from five political groups who have prepared this resolution. i can tell you this: the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, with the participation of the committee on development and the committee on industry, research and energy, has reached a broad consensus on what should be done now. parliament has a clear vision of where the journey should go at cop 17 in durban. we don't have time to waste. the extreme weather events in this one year, 2011, the melting of glaciers and icebergs, tell us: climate change is in full swing. that is why we need substantial progress at cop 17. the aim of the parliament remains to make the unfccc a legally binding instrument for all states - a global climate treaty, if you will. now, that's not going to be achievable in durban, but we need more cornerstones, more mosaic stones on the way to a global climate treaty. the first is the implementation of the promises made in cancún last year. i am referring to the mechanism for the transfer of technology from the rich north to the poor south, or the institutions for the necessary climate change adaptation measures. but beyond that, there are open questions which can hopefully be settled in durban. an open question is closing the gigaton gap. in durban, everyone agreed that we want to stabilize global warming at 2 degrees celsius, but the commitments on the table are not enough. we end up at 3.5 to 4 degrees celsius - way too much, as we know. we therefore need to clarify how this gigatonne gap is to be closed - always according to the principle of common but differentiated responsibility for the stabilization of the earth's atmosphere. we in parliament believe that 2015 is the year of peak greenhouse gas emissions, which is very ambitious. but science tells us that we have to do it within this decade. and by 2050, we know that we're going to have to reduce about 50 percent of the greenhouse gases -- a huge task. the kyoto protocol is very likely to be the focus of durban. we must prevent a gap between commitment period 1 and a further commitment period 2. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. we know we don't have too many partners, but in europe, switzerland and norway, and australia and new zealand. i think with good climate diplomacy, we can get a critical mass where it's worth doing kyoto ii and, in parallel, pushing, above all, the emerging countries, but also the united states, to a roadmap where everyone comes together. here's the idea that then in 2015, we can have this kind of sweeping climate agreement. i want to mention what we know: the financing of international climate action - we hope that the green climate fund can be established in durban - that we know who manages it, who can join, how it works and also that we get a clarification on the sources of funding. parliament has several proposals on this: the revenue from emissions trading, levies on aviation and shipping or even the financial transaction tax, if it were to come. i will make it short: the economic crisis must not be an excuse for doing nothing. and the message from durban must be: climate change cannot control humanity, but humanity must have the will to control climate change. that is the message we are taking to south africa as the european parliament.
acting president of the council. - thank you very much, mr. president, for the welcome! we're less than two weeks away from the durban climate summit. this year's conference has a special role to play in the context of climate action, and poland, as the country holding the presidency of the council of the european union, is taking this issue very seriously. we know that the kyoto protocol's transition period ends in 2012. our ambitious task at the durban climate summit will be to ensure that the world continues to want to talk about climate policy and that some legally binding mechanism that guarantees climate action is provided. we had a difficult discussion in the council at the october environment council, but we managed to work out a single european union voice on how we intend to conduct these negotiations and how we intend to make progress in the negotiations. the two elements we will be working hard to achieve are openness to the kyoto protocol. as jo leinen has already said, the kyoto protocol is currently the only mechanism that binds countries on climate, so we need to keep the positive language around the kyoto protocol, to use the good and bad experiences of the protocol to talk about a legally binding new commitment under the convention. and that's our second goal, the kyoto protocol, as a kind of transition to a new, legally binding commitment, where all countries agree to join this mechanism and take a diverse but shared responsibility for climate issues. of course, there are also actions that come from work, from negotiations. this is the question of the implementation of the cancún agreement, the question of further negotiations on technology transfer, on adaptation to climate change, which is particularly important for developing countries, the question of mitigation, technology transfer and financing. financing will also play a very important role in durban, as it is important for developing countries. we have made some decisions, we have declared some amounts, so the establishment of an institution linked to the green fund will be a very important outcome of the durban summit, which we hope will be. transparency of countries, and here transparency of the european union, in the funding of 'fast start' will play a very important role. according to the reports we have, the european union will demonstrate this commitment and in 2012 the declared amount of over 7 billion euros will be presented to developing countries. in this respect, it is important that we as the european union maintain full transparency, full transparency of the actions that we will be presenting in durban. as the presidency, we are also taking a number of actions to put pressure on the world's major economies to join and agree to this european union proposal for further action to reach a global agreement on climate change. we have a lot of meetings at the political level, at the negotiator level, at the expert level. we have very good contacts with the developing countries, with the african group. several ministerial meetings have already taken place in africa. as regards the outcome of the durban summit, we have high hopes for china, which has recently shown a very constructive attitude. we hope that we can make further progress in the negotiations.
member of the commission. − president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss where we are heading for in durban. needless to say, the commission is trying to do whatever it can through outreach, through bilateral contacts at all levels, through proposing draft texts, suggestions, and by trying to find ways forward to ensure that we make progress in durban. we all know that durban is not going to deliver what we would like to see in europe – the internationally binding deal. that is not because of europe. it is because of others. the polish presidency already mentioned many of the issues that we are pursuing like how to close the gap, as mr leinen said as his first point. it is extremely important in durban to figure out how we can close the gap. we are discussing a lot of technicalities, but are we actually reducing emissions? this is what is at stake. we should never forget that this must be the key issue, so i agree with mr leinen on making that the first point. accounting rules, finance, new market-based mechanisms, a lot of things must be implemented that were agreed in copenhagen and which were agreed in cancun. but let me use this very limited time to talk a bit more in depth on one of the key issues that was not solved in cancun last year: the question of the legal form of whatever we can agree in the future. that will of course be on the table in durban. the eu’s goal remains an ambitious, comprehensive, legally binding international framework covering all parties. it is and it remains the best way to keep the global temperature increase below 2°c. and let us be clear: the eu is in favour of the kyoto protocol. the eu has taken targets under the kyoto protocol. we have not only delivered on these targets; we are actually on a path to overshoot our targets. we have built our own legislation up to 2020 in line with the kyoto principles. so when it comes to kyoto, europe is not the problem. we are doing, and will continue to do, whatever we can to get as much of the kyoto acquis and the rules established for the future. therefore, of course, europe is willing to take a second commitment period, but has already been mentioned, unfortunately not too many are following us there. japan, russia, canada, who used to be members of the kyoto family, have very clearly stated that they are not going to take a second commitment period. up till now, the kyoto family has accounted for around one-third of global emissions. there is the possibility that after durban the second commitment period family will account for 15% of global emissions. nonetheless, europe has said yes. we are open to taking a second commitment period, but because what matters to us is the climate, and because what matters to us are real reductions, we have also attached a condition. we say there are some things with the environmental integrity, aaus and lulucf, but we also need to have this put into a context where, together with a second commitment period, we secure the bridge to the future; that others accept we must agree on a roadmap where other major emitters engage in a broader framework and where kyoto rules are improved to ensure the environmental integrity. that means we are trying to find middle ground. we are open to this second commitment period, but in the clear roadmap that we want we also need to have a timeline. when will other major economies commit? and when will they commit in the same legal form as we do? that is going to be one of the main discussions in durban. as i said, we are not the problem there. we are the ones trying to secure our ambition. and it is fine for europe to make the bridge to the future, together with norway, switzerland and a few others that will take a second commitment period. but it is also a legitimate question for europe to ask: what is the point in making the bridge to the future if nobody will follow us into that future? if they are not ready now, then we need to know when they are ready. that is why the timeline is a key request for europe. i have spent my time explaining this because i think it is also key that others understand that europe is ready and that europe is not the problem. the problem is those who are not moving their position in order to deliver what must be delivered if durban is not just to be about process, but about really achieving something that can improve the climate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr president, i am delighted that you are chairing the meeting today. i support this resolution with all my political strength and i believe that we have done a good job. but, commissioner, as you know, i have been here for some time, and above all at the climate conferences we have held hands here and said that we want to go somewhere together and achieve a goal, but in retrospect we did not quite understand what happened in copenhagen or cancún. in cancun there were two or three good approaches, and we must implement them, there is no question about that. but the real question is: why can't the countries get along with europe? there's a very simple example. the american president came to copenhagen and said, "no money, no treaty". and then the chinese got up and said, "mr. president, we don't need your money". so we have to rethink whether our approach is right. i say, yes, the approach is right, but the leverage of how we handle it is not clear to this day. there is no question that we need a kyoto successor concept and that we need to develop lca further. but on what terms? when will you say yes to china when china presents you with a modified five-year plan? i took the liberty of saying the same to the president of the council. if i were in a private company, they would ask me: what is your strategy, and with whom are you on the way? this is very important if we are to succeed in the long run. we have a crucial movement in europe in recent years, namely the question of resource policy. i now believe that the global resource scarcity is at least as great as the climate of carbon dioxide. and i also believe -- as jo leinen says -- that we humans can influence that. this is why the question of resource efficiency should be used as a lever to find partners worldwide who will step up to the innovation ladder and try to incorporate more market-based instruments to bring industry in. the united states of america and its environmental and climate policies are not really something to be happy about. i really don't. but american industry has very well recognized that resource efficiency and efficiency policies are very helpful in international procurement. if we in europe do a proper air traffic emissions trading system, then the americans will have no choice but to build the necessary turbines, which will then be sold worldwide. so we are influencing that policy, and we should continue to do so. the same is true of china. the chairman of the chinese environmental committee told me, "karl-heinz, we are the largest committee in the world. and can you really imagine that there is any authority other than our great chinese people that would have our programs audited? other they will not, commissioner, and that is why we need other, more modern levers to influence them. i would like to encourage you to do so. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. no human can deny that. if we can do what you have done in many other legislations, that is, we can get to renewable energy and sustainability, force industry to buy cutting-edge technologies, then we will - i am sure - get an extra push into this policy. i would encourage you to do so. otherwise, you can assume that i will be very happy to support our resolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. 3.7% of the financial transactions of the eu budget were defective. that figure is too high, and it is the decision of this house from the liberadzki report that we are demanding a continuing downward trend in that figure. i am concerned that we are seeing a reversal in the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2010. after three years of declining error rates, the number is now rising again. unfortunately, european regional policy is responsible for this again, because the error rate has risen from 5.5 to 7.7%. interestingly, according to the european commission, the united kingdom is also the third country with the most errors, behind spain and italy. we know that the mistakes are made in the member states because of shared management, and we know which member states they are. we therefore call on the commission to concentrate its control efforts on these countries. shut down the programs or interrupt them, but reduce the error rate! let's take a look at the revenue side. one eighth of the european budget is revenue from external customs duties. here too the member states are not fulfilling their obligations. the customs duties are not being collected in a fair way, and it is italy and the united kingdom and the netherlands that are not collecting the duties in a fair way. i thank the european court of auditors, you, mr president caldeira, personally and your colleagues for this important document, which we will appreciate in detail in this forthcoming discharge process.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the court of auditors' report this year presents a positive picture, albeit one that is somewhat clouded by grey. the good news is that many areas are satisfactory, particularly the large area of agricultural expenditure, which mr fjellner has already mentioned. the bad news is that the predicted deterioration in the cohesion area has stopped and 49% - half - of all the audited cohesion payments were affected by errors. that's a lot of money. 90% of all problem payments are in the member states. we have already criticised the council's absence in our committee. i'm looking at the council bench. the council is not here again, and it is the council that should be here in this debate. two thirds of all errors occur in three member states. i would like to congratulate you, commissioner šemeta, on having the courage to name these member states in the committee. you said it was italy, spain, the czech republic. and that's also a new policy that we're supporting, namely naming and shaming. they are also following another request from the european parliament, for which i should like to thank them: they have suspended payments totalling eur 2.4 billion. that is the only way to bring discipline into the member states. so we must, after we have narrowed down the errors, also clearly name the sinners. key words are effectiveness, efficiency and economy. here again, there is a new chapter, where you, mr caldeira, in your report to the court of auditors, make it clear that the commission often fails to achieve the objectives it sets itself. mr šemeta, we are looking forward to the commission's evaluation report, which is due in december, but we also want to say: in times of financial crisis we must manage taxpayers' money even better, even more precisely, more precisely, more efficiently. that's our job. i want to thank the court for helping us with this task.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. mario monti is presenting his new government today. prime minister papademos faces a vote of confidence in the greek parliament today. both heads of government - the one in italy and the one in greece - are certainly facing historic challenges for their countries. i would like to say on behalf of my group that after this debate, which i think has been conducted in a very technical way, i would like to say: the solidarity of this parliament also extends to the men and women in these countries who are facing the greatest crisis. we are discussing treaty changes, the structure of the eu - when are we going to discuss that these countries need investment and growth, without which they will never recover? that would be the task we have to face here this morning. (applause from the centre) i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. yeah, he's got a point there. but markets do not give democracy time. what we are seeing is a race of democracies against anonymous forces that are putting these democracies at risk with their speculation. we are therefore well advised to do everything possible to stabilize those countries which, in my view and in the view of my colleagues, are not only victims of excessive national debt but also targets of speculation that this national debt can bankrupt democratic systems and make money out of it. we now have a lot of discussion about what the council does and does not do, what it wants to do and does not want to do, and what the commission does and does not want to do. i will tell you which institution in this europe is delivering: in six months this parliament has delivered the six pack, and the canfin report that we have adopted here, the ban on uncovered short selling - a tough measure against speculation - has been delivered in this house. i would therefore like to say to you, mr van rompuy: that we are a source of ideas and that's how you ended your speech thank you very much! but this parliament is not a think tank, it is the representative of the european citizens and it provides concrete solutions! (applause from the centre) we're discussing the revision of the contract, yes! i do not know whether mario monti needs a debate on the revision of the treaty. i do not know whether greece needs a debate on the revision of the treaty at the moment. we are discussing the revision of the treaty because angela merkel wants to insert the six-pack into the treaty. that's all i got! and you two, and you, don't have the courage to tell her to stop. even though everyone here knows you don't want to. this is the reality! i think that if there is this revision of the treaty because it is being forced, then i will tell you again what i told you last time, that you need a convention and then this parliament is involved. i'm telling you straight. without the european parliament, i would like to refer to what i said earlier, there will be no effective reforms in the european union. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because what we're seeing is the division of this continent. i have said it many times, there is this tripartism: the french-german du, the rest of the eurozone and the rest of europe. the fact that the heads of government of the euro countries must unite under the pressure of the markets and, if necessary, also take quick decisions in addition to the treaty, yes, we accept this one hundred percent. but what is now being tried is to make this exception the rule, and that is wrong. i'll tell you where this is going. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. is the community method still applicable or not? i am not defending the community method, nor are my colleagues here, because it is a technique, but because there is a philosophy behind the community method. the community method was the chance to balance the interests of large, medium and small states in community institutions, the great achievement of europe. if we abandon this and the heads of government of the eurozone are the economic government, then i wonder: how are decisions made? - you agree? if we have unanimity, we will wait for the result of the fdp primary vote in germany to decide whether a narrow majority of 60 000 fdp members will decide on the future of the euro. if a majority is required, germany and france will always have the majority. but then angela merkel and nicolas sarkozy decide what you have to do in luxembourg, or mr monti in rome, or mr papademos in athens. but this is not the european council, this is the congress of vienna, and we do not want to go back to that. (applause from the centre) mr president, before you go on without answering the shouting again, thank you for your attention.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as the example of italy shows, where the risk premium on government bonds temporarily rose above the critical 7% mark, the markets are relatively unimpressed by the decisions of the last european summit. the next eurozone country is already in their sights. the rise in interest rates in italy since october has not been matched by real economic developments. and as the experiences of ireland, greece, portugal and spain show in such a situation, concerted eu and imf assistance and the use of the efsf appear to be inevitable. this clearly shows that the measures we have taken to regulate the financial markets so far are not fully effective. i am afraid that this will not change much with the new plans to strengthen economic governance in the euro area. when i think of the package of measures announced by you, mr president barroso, containing the five proposals for closer economic policy coordination, i cannot answer the main question: do you have the courage and the ability to regulate the players in the international financial markets in such a way that speculative activity is avoided in the future? the ecofin discussions on the financial transaction tax showed that there is a lack of political will in the member states to take even small steps. finance ministers continue to respond to global challenges with national thinking and proposals for solutions in line with the interests of their national banks. how big must the crisis be, how many countries must be affected, and how much sacrifice must the people of the countries involved make before the necessary insight to act is acquired? they propose, for example, the publication of a green paper on eurostability bonds. as much as i stress the need for the introduction of eurobonds, i am amazed at the method. how long will you be discussing the specific arrangements needed to set up the mechanism? how will this period of the discussion process affect the markets? those are the questions for me. the commission has also proposed that the budgetary surveillance of the individual countries be reinforced. as if the imposed austerity measures were going to give a boost to growth! the first priority is to take concrete measures to improve growth and employment, and thus income and thus domestic demand. the austerity measures in the crisis only deepen them. this is what the economic figures for greece, portugal and ireland for 2010 and 2011 show. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. government revenues must be increased. so far, all that has been proposed is to cut social benefits, wages and pensions or to increase vat. this means that the consumption of the masses of the population is being strangled, and the gap between the rich and the poor could become even wider. the citizens feel it too. they do not see themselves as responsible for the crisis, and rightly so! they are demanding social equality, including tax justice. that is why the mass protests in the member states which have been imposed austerity packages. that is why the political instability in the crisis countries, where many governments have already been swept away, is so great. if the austerity measures are tightened further, the protests will grow further. where does this lead? i am totally against the raising of taxes on banks, big companies and the rich in the countries. they could easily make a greater contribution to the management of the crisis. concrete steps in this direction are needed. this would give citizens the feeling that burdens are being shared more equitably. but this guidance must also come from you, the commission, the council, the eurogroup and other international institutions. after all, it has been shown that the neoliberal mantra of tax cuts and reducing regulation of market forces has led to such excesses that the global financial system as a whole is threatened. this requires a reversal of thinking and approach. we need to ban short-term trading in cdss, short selling and other highly risky financial products. that's the order of the day!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate you on your work. all three are elected, one by parliament and two by the council. mr farage is not informed, he's leaving now. three things go together: financial market regulation, the stability and growth pact, economic governance and the bailouts. if we do not tackle financial regulation, the bailouts will do nothing. that is the first condition. and if we do the economic governance right, then we won't need the bailouts. that is why this crisis is an institutional crisis of the european union. if i look at financial market regulation, the uk is blocking where it can, it's blocking at every turn! i think we need to think about how we can improve that, too. jean-claude juncker said that we must involve all the councils. i would like to extend this: the president of the commission must involve all the commissioners and directorates-general, because the proposals also lack the red thread. i think we need moderate contract changes. like article 136, we need to abolish article 126 (10), which expressly does not give the european court of justice the power to monitor compliance with this treaty. the commissioner for monetary affairs needs the same powers as the commissioner for competition: powers of intervention. this is the way. you suggest it. the eurobonds, the pooling of debt, is not the right way. the member states themselves bear the responsibility, and therefore only one thing applies: inflation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the right way: inflation weakens the poorest, and only the responsibility of the member states themselves can create the stability we all need.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make three points in relation to the debate on economic governance. firstly, the continued blockade of the eurobonds and the stability bonds - and i say this particularly to the cdu/csu and fdp - by germany means that you are forcing the ecb to take the necessary stabilization measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second point i would like to raise concerns the taxation field. we know that we have a problem on the revenue side all over europe, and at the moment the working groups for more tax cooperation and against tax dumping are blocked. this is because it is still in the national interest to stop measures against corporate tax, dumping and tax evasion. so my request to you, mr barroso, is that you be brave and put forward a new tax package now in the midst of the crisis, and try to increase the pressure on the blocking member states. thirdly, we have adopted by a large majority a package of measures to combat economic imbalances. now the council is calling again in the last ecofin to not implement this package. in the national interest of germany, mr rehn had to declare that he would propose sanctions against surplus countries. at the same time, germany is currently trying to manipulate the indicators of when economic surveillance will start. you originally wanted to use plus 4% of gdp as a monitoring point for economic imbalances, for current account surpluses. you've already rowed back to plus 6%. germany is not enough. at the last council meeting germany insisted on a plus 7%. i would ask you, mr rehn and mr barroso, not to make the joint decisions weaker than they are. fully enforce the law! make it clear that you will keep all instruments of the law open. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european union is at a critical juncture. we must deepen integration, especially in the areas of financial and economic policy. we need a strong commissioner who will bring together the functions now divided between the commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, the president of the eurogroup, the finance minister who rotates every six months and the economic governor herman van rompuy in one function and represent the eu and the eurozone externally. if we fail to do so, we will not even be able to defend the status quo, and we will inevitably slip into a phase of disintegration. we don't want a debt union. we need a stability union, and therefore the solution is not to issue eurobonds. already today, the efsf has to pay 200 basis points more than germany for its bonds. this is worsening, the bonds already issued are priced well below par. we must also try to draw up reserves which we still have in all the member states. the whole issue of subsidies must be addressed. in my country alone, it is certainly a large double-digit, perhaps even a three-digit, billion which can be put into the budget as a tax increase. jean-claude trichet would have said today: time is of the essence. and indeed we must act quickly, otherwise the markets will continue to drive policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the density of traffic on the roads continues to increase, as does the stress on car and truck drivers. it is also not getting us any closer to the goal of reducing co2 emissions. rail transport both passenger and freight must therefore be promoted and improved. that is why i have agreed to this proposal. on the other hand, the expansion of rail transport brings, of course, not only advantages, but also new challenges and disadvantages, and noise pollution is clearly one of them. we have also made an important decision here, namely that we want to combat noise pollution effectively with new railway lines and new technology. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not subject to unfair competition. the call for strong national regulatory authorities to control the railway sector is therefore a great success. the european small state does not help us here. european rail transport can be a great opportunity if national egoisms are overcome.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. climate change has been one of the central political issues for some years now. the need to reduce co2 emissions is clear. i would like to make two comments on this. firstly, i think that the focus on climate change is essentially solely on the co2 metric, which is completely wrong. climate change has no single cause and cannot be tackled by simply reducing co2. i think it is more important to focus on the conservation of our natural resources. secondly, it is of little use if the european union alone is making efforts to achieve agreed objectives, but third countries are falling far behind the objectives they set themselves. we must also tackle this problem.
in writing. - i have approved the report. the attempt to create a european cultural label is interesting and quite worthwhile. however, it should be borne in mind that there are already cultural heritage seals issued by many institutions, such as unesco. i imagine that after a period of 5 years, a critical evaluation of the seal will take place to assess whether the whole action will benefit, for example, by increasing the awareness of the seal bearers or by adding more value through marketing.
in writing. - the report is consistent and necessary. the committee's structure is logical, following the changes in the committee, and it is concerned with the content of the proposals for a common and efficient railway market in europe. common standards and smooth and strong coordination are essential for the european railway of the future. a strong pan-european regulator is also needed. the question of the separation of the network from the operator is not crucial for more competition, efficiency and quality. the key is to ensure that the calculation of the track charges is transparent and fair. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - i have deliberately and purposefully rejected the resolution on the durban climate conference, because the fantasies are continuing as before. a world climate conference requires all polluters, including those who have so far refused to participate, to come together and agree on binding targets. everything else is just a bunch of junk. as long as targeted forest fires release more co2 than the whole of europe can save, i do not think it makes sense to burden our daily lives and our industry without achieving even a zero result.
in writing. − the digitisation of european film is an important concern in order to strengthen and increase the potential of european filmmakers. europe has its own soul and culture, which can be made visible through cinema. digitalisation means a substantial increase in the availability and the media of reproduction and is an important building block.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, in the absence of catherine ashton, i have the pleasure of informing you on the state of play of the eu-us summit. i will also cover the transatlantic economic council, which i chair, and which this year takes place back-to-back with the summit. we expect the summit to send a strong signal, reasserting the great depth and breadth of the eu-us partnership, based on common values, which is particularly important at a time when gloomy economic times have taken hold on both sides of the atlantic and around the world more generally. the european parliament is an active contributor to the development of eu-us relations, as we can judge from the reports and resolutions on transatlantic relations, the delegations travelling to the us and the many high-level visitors from the united states that are welcomed in this house. the eu and the us economies are still suffering, with pessimistic forecasts for 2012 growth and unemployment levels. therefore, the economy and the need for jobs and growth will be at the heart of this summit. we will start by reviewing relevant results of the g20 summit, and will discuss our respective contributions to a sustainable and balanced global recovery. the 2008 financial crisis in the us, and now the eurozone crisis, have demonstrated how deeply the eu and us economies are interdependent, and that we need to support each others’ efforts to resolve the economic crisis. at the summit, eu and us leaders must convey confidence in economic governance on both sides of the atlantic. they will also seek a renewed impetus to transatlantic efforts to boost jobs and growth. during the discussions we want to ensure that we look at all the critical economic issues beyond the eurozone crisis. we are doing our homework. so far, president obama is supporting eu efforts, and we trust that this support will continue. however, having the eurozone house in order is a necessary, but not a sufficient, condition for global growth. one should not forget that the eu is not contributing to global imbalances: the eu has no large current account deficits, continues to have low inflation and has generally lower debt levels than some of our major trading partners, and the eurozone has an exchange rate which is driven by market forces. as the crisis is global, nobody can bear the full burden of the solution on their own, neither the eu nor any other economy. at the summit we will ask the us to play its part too. we welcome the us commitment at the g20 to pursue fiscal consolidation. financial regulation reform remains at the core of sustainable and balanced growth. a lot has been done on both sides of the atlantic, but further work is needed, and we need to ensure that what has been decided is implemented effectively. again, europe is doing its homework by implementing rules on bank bonuses and basel iii swiftly. in the light of the g20 outcome, we also want the summit to underline the need for the eu and us to rally behind the multilateral trading system, to resist protectionism at home and abroad, and to ensure that we both go to the geneva wto ministerial conference in december with the will to make progress wherever possible with a fresh approach to the doha development agenda mandate. the summit will also focus, as i said, on expanding the economic benefits of the transatlantic economy. as regards the transatlantic european council, the tec, i very much welcome most of the ideas expressed in the resolution. i fully agree with you that there is – now more then ever – an urgent need for closer economic cooperation between the eu and the united states to help our economies out of the crisis. the strategic and political impulse provided by the tec process is key in this respect. while it will not provide an immediate remedy for acute economic problems, it is the prime vehicle for the eu and the us to promote further integration of the transatlantic marketplace. as outlined in the resolution, regulatory coherence is a key objective of our cooperation in the tec, especially in new areas such as nanotechnology and cloud computing, or promising economic sectors such as electric vehicles, in order to create a favourable environment for growth and jobs. the tec has had a productive year since its last meeting. at the 29 november tec meeting in washington, we expect to demonstrate good results in a number of important economic sectors, including e-mobility, secure trade, the information and communication technology services sector, and basic industries (raw materials). us tec co-chair michael froman and i will provide a joint report to the summit and we expect summit leaders to identify, and give us direction on, the main forward-looking priorities for transatlantic cooperation. we will also seek to present a strategy on how to promote the joint ict regulatory principles with third countries and take a renewed commitment on our transatlantic investment cooperation. in my view, the tec should put its weight behind a few high-profile issues, showing our capacity to work together and set benchmarks at global level. success breeds success: if our ‘flagship’ projects work – for example, our cooperation on electric cars – they can serve as a model for other areas. i rely on you to convey this message to european standard-setting organisations. the tec’s role is to further develop the enormous potential of the transatlantic marketplace. this is all the more important in times of economic crisis and financial market instability, to counter protectionist reflexes. but the tec will not be able meet its objectives without the support of legislators. the vital motor of convergence will be your cooperation with the us congress on key issues of transatlantic interest. i therefore welcome the decision by the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue (tld) to initiate cooperation between committee chairs on both sides of the atlantic in three central areas: financial services, transport security and agriculture (food safety). i am also looking forward to meeting members of the tld steering group next week, on 21 november, to discuss other key areas of common interest which are mentioned in your resolution. let me tell you why i think the tec is so important. the eu and the us are the world’s most integrated economies. we are each other’s largest trade and investment partners. we share common values and responsibilities for tackling global challenges on a variety of issues, be it innovation and environmental challenges, energy security or access to raw materials. that is why we need to think together about how the transatlantic marketplace should look in 2020. the summit will also address the global challenges we are facing together: climate change will be in focus again in the run-up to the 17th conference of parties in durban. there is deep concern amongst our citizens about the impact of global climate change. durban will be an important opportunity to make progress on shaping multilateral action to combat climate change. the summit must send a message that the eu and us will work together to put decisions taken at cancun last year into operation and ensure that durban is a success. one cannot talk about climate change, the economy or foreign policy without talking about energy. with a growing global population and a finite supply of fossil fuels, energy security is a vital concern. given the supply shocks of the past year and the fragility of economic recovery, we will engage the us further on a joint agenda of work with a view both to increasing our energy interdependence and to promoting green growth and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. on development, the eu and the us are the world’s leading aid donors. however, the current climate of austerity, where we have to do more with less, underlines more than ever the need for complementarity and increased attention to aid effectiveness. we need to work closely on coordinating our efforts in recipient countries so as to maximise the effectiveness and impact of our aid and avoid duplication of effort. we will also seek to build on existing work in the eu-us development dialogue on food security, climate change and the mdgs, especially health. as the summit will take place on the eve of the high-level conference in busan, a positive message on aid effectiveness could not be more timely. the us is our global partner also in cfsp and csdp. on the foreign policy side, the ‘arab spring’ is an obvious area of focus. we will continue our close coordination and seek to maximise our joint impact on the ground. we also must support the middle east peace process, with the aim of achieving a framework for agreement between israel and the palestinian authority. on iran and syria, the eu has delivered on tougher sanctions while stressing that we remain committed to engagement on the right terms. iran’s nuclear programme remains a concern. we are consulting internally, and with our partners, to work on an appropriate reaction by the iaea board of governors to the new report. we will look towards europe’s east as well. in belarus, developments during september – notably the release of 25 political prisoners – were going in the right direction. the ‘mending of fences’ with the west now seems to have come to an abrupt halt. instead, the regime is increasingly tightening the screws on civil society and the political opposition. eu-us cooperation on belarus has been excellent and should continue. we will coordinate our messages and policies to get maximum impact, where possible. also, in the case of ukraine, the us and eu have worked very well together on pushing the path of reform and will continue to do so. we need to build on things that work even more. as for security and defence, on 18 may this year, during her visit to washington, catherine ashton signed with secretary clinton the framework participation agreement to facilitate future us engagement in the eu’s csdp missions. this is a major step in the right direction, especially at times when the pooling of resources is essential. as a consequence, our cooperation in the field of crisis management has been further increased, and nowadays around 60 american citizens already serve in our csdp civilian missions in kosovo and afghanistan. this is clear evidence that the eu is taking the lead and is regarded as a global partner. on domestic security, recognising that fundamental rights and the security of citizens are complementary and mutually reinforcing, we need to ensure that there is a good balance between the two in all of our work. the eu and us must also reinforce our work together to tackle new threats to the global networks, such as cyber attacks and cyber crime, in a more comprehensive way. we are also determined to finalise in 2012 negotiations on a comprehensive eu-us data protection agreement that provides a high level of protection for all our citizens and thereby facilitates the exchange of data needed for law enforcement purposes. overall, the summit must affirm the continued importance of a modern and forward-looking eu-us relationship in an increasingly multi-polar world. i look forward to the debate that will now follow.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the forthcoming summit and the subsequent meeting of the transatlantic economic council are of great importance. because we are in a situation where we see more than ever that cooperation between the united states and europe is again necessary. it is about the middle east and the quartet, iran, energy security and many other issues. but i would also like to turn now to the question of the financial and economic crisis. the industrialized democracies of the united states, europe and japan are the ones who are now in great difficulty, and in china people are already rejoicing and asking how they can help. we have to prove that we can get out of this crisis on our own, to rebuild trust. that is why this initiative 'growth and jobs' is so important to get more out of our citizens, to generate growth, to create jobs. the removal of non-tariff barriers to trade with the usa alone would generate growth of 3%, which would be an important and positive message. we must therefore move forward with political leadership and not just with the technical negotiating skills of bureaucracies. in particular also on the removal of non-tariff trade barriers, the setting of standards and moving forward together on these highlights like e-mobility, as they call it, but also on the joint power to enforce standards worldwide, we as americans and europeans, who still have over 60% of the gross national product of this world, now still have the power to enforce these things, to develop them in our interests. here's your chance to do that. that is why we think and want to express through this resolution, which i believe is the view of a large majority in this house, that we ask president barroso and president van rompuy to discuss this very clearly with the americans. i can say that we have been in a much more intensive dialogue recently with our colleagues in the american congress, who for similar reasons are now showing more openness to this development and this is also being heard more strongly in the united states, and that is why, commissioner, your initiatives for the tec are now finding a wider resonance than they initially did on the other side after the change of government in the united states. i believe that it is through the tec that you can advance the practical things that underpin the overarching policy and in this way give europe and america a future in which their citizens can find economic and social security.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i fully agree with you, commissioner, when you say that this summit is of great importance. i would perhaps say that it should be of great importance. i am not sure that we have a viable partner on the american side. the american administration is largely paralyzed and the congress largely divided. the need for additional sustainable growth on both sides of the atlantic is undeniable, but there is little evidence that it will be tackled vigorously. the us administration can't even get this started halfway around the country. the european side should therefore make a major effort to give life to this partnership in the present day, in accordance with its importance. and i know that you, commissioner, in the tec are doing everything to make this happen, and i know that elmar brok, as the head of the us delegation, is doing everything at his level. but i 'm afraid i have to say: the resolution before us is a half-baked thing, a text which somehow fails to bring about concentration. let me give you three examples. the subject of raw materials policy or rare earths is rightly raised. in fact, the us, europe and japan, for that matter, could very well work together, not only on research projects but also on creating global economic governance for these structures. so if you compare what we have in international governance structures, for example, in the oil sector, with what we have in metals and minerals, you can quickly see that there is something that can be done. but that's not even being discussed. or the middle east. israelis and palestinians are at an impasse. israel is turning off the money tap of the palestinian authority. israel is now turning the tap on even its own human rights organizations. but our resolution refuses to even mention this explicitly. it is half-hearted, it is not ambitious, and at this level we cannot even contemplate a reasonable cooperation with the americans. and on climate change, as a final example, you said one sentence: we should put the projects in durban into operation. that's not ambitious enough for this cooperation, especially when americans are in such a bad place, when you know that the iea just said that we're heading for a six degree warming. i think we should take it seriously, as you said, but not halfway, as unfortunately happens.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in recent weeks, the united states has finally sent a positive signal that has got the world to listen. but that signal didn't come from the white house, it didn't come from the capitol, it came from the street. the occupy movement has set an example of resistance by the american people to the dictates of finance capitalism, which has been noted and embraced worldwide. yesterday, in the dead of night, protest tents across the united states were cleared by police in an apparently concerted action by mayors and numerous people were arrested. that's another signal. it describes the refusal of the rulers to address the demands of the population. but that is precisely what my group is calling for in a transatlantic summit. it is not the citizens who should be arrested, but the fraudsters who have become even richer by profiting from subprime loans. the summit was supposed to focus on the gap between the poor majority and the super-rich, just after the g20 meeting. the summit should take strong decisions to ban usury, whether for private individuals or for entire states. the summit should have been an eye-opener to the fact that 10% of the population of the us and eu member states have now lost their jobs. a quarter of young people have no prospects, in some regions more than 40%. the financial markets suck the investment capital needed out of the real economy and the state budgets, and take profits from them. these are the gigantic problems which the summit must address. the eu's role in the world economy is to provide a framework for the development of a global economy, and to help the world economy to respond to the challenges of the 21st century. an expanded tld would also be the appropriate forum to address further differences between the eu and the us, whether it be in the subject matter you address in peace policy, climate policy or human rights. the resolution, as my colleague mr bütikofer says, is far behind. we as a group cannot therefore support this resolution.
i have to say, madam president, i think there is cause for concern about this summit. the role of the united states in the world economy is anything but pleasing. while we in europe have drawn the lesson from the debt crisis that we want to be responsible with our public finances, we see the us central bank opening its doors and flooding the us market with dollars. easy money was one of the causes of the 2008 crisis. the whole thing is unfortunately going on, as is the debt of the american public sector. the danger of inflation is not to be dismissed. i also think it's not very encouraging that americans still haven't managed to reform their medicare, medicaid and social security systems in a sustainable way. in this context, before an election year in 2012, americans are naturally welcoming a weak dollar. upgrading would not be at all what president obama's jobs program would be. the council's recommendations to the european people are also to be seen against this background, but they are to be seen as a plea to stabilise the euro. because if the euro loses value against the dollar, american exports will suffer on world markets. at the same time, the temptation to protectionism is growing in the united states - a trend which we must urgently combat - and it is therefore good that the trade commissioner has spoken here today. i think that's very important. we europeans and americans still have the largest trade and investment relations with each other. the second point is important to my group. with google, ebay, apple, amazon, we have created what are called information empires. it is important that we find a new approach to the handling of data, also by such private actors, together with the americans, and i believe that this is something in which our citizens have a great interest. this issue must be taken seriously. i forgot to mention facebook, but it's very obviously in there. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
i'm not going to tell you. i wish i could give you a satisfactory answer. my only fear is that if the republicans do succeed in ousting president obama from office, we will not see much improvement in american public finances on the revenue side, while, if things continue as they are, the democrats will continue with their irresponsible policies on the expenditure side. so i think the macroeconomic outlook in the united states is not going to change for the better. we will have to wait and see in humility for the final decision of the american people in november.
i have to say, madam president, i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the future of the european union.
the commission has already done so. the markets in the west are growing ever closer together, even though there are occasional setbacks. there is no doubt that trade between the eu and the us still has the potential for further substantial growth on both sides of the atlantic. i therefore welcome the settlement of the longstanding dispute over the import of hormone-treated beef from the usa, which is currently awaiting legislative implementation by the european parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the us and that the us does not become a victim of its own trade policy. secondly, to implement the decision of the wto appeals committee as soon as possible and to suspend the practice of 'zeroing' when adopting anti-dumping measures. thirdly, there is a very european concern to substantially improve the protection of geographical indications of origin. it is agreed that there is no 'made in the usa' champagne. fourthly, to lift definitively the ban on imports of european beef into the usa because of the alleged bse risks; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. we are seeing that protectionism and lockdowns are ultimately not going to work, as the economic and labor market data in the united states shows. so here is a call for more openness on trade issues on both sides of the atlantic.
i have to say, madam president, mrs schaake is one of the most competent colleagues when it comes to the internet, freedom of information and data protection. i take this opportunity to ask you whether you would consider it useful to work with the americans to draw up an action plan to ensure the protection of the data and privacy of users of these major providers. would that be an objective for this or any other eu-us summit? in my eyes, it would be. i would like to hear your views on this and perhaps some of the elements that could be agreed in such an action plan.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is good that this summit is taking place, because it is high time that we coordinated better transatlantically. in 2000, the european union and the united states together accounted for at least 50% of the world's economic output. that was ten years ago, and in ten years we will be together just 35% of the time. on the other hand, the two largest emerging economies, china and india, accounted for just 10 percent of the world's economic output ten years ago, and they will account for 25 percent in ten years. that is to say, our importance is declining, and the importance of the americans is declining, and it is urgent that we finally stand together. the tec has already achieved some results, for example in e-mobility, but it is certainly still possible to expand. i am very disappointed, mr commissioner, that you have just mentioned the subject of nanotechnology, which fortunately is also a subject in tec. but the commission has just adopted its own definition of nanotechnology. i do not think it is particularly conducive to transatlantic cooperation if we put the subject on the agenda in the tec and the european commission adopts a definition. if we have defined something, there is little point in discussing it transatlantically, because then the subject is unfortunately closed. the current crisis makes it clear that we are trying to tackle the crisis with similar programmes, but the programmes are not coordinated at all. it is not just that we do not know what negative effects our programmes might have on each other, but it is that we see some programmes on both sides of the atlantic that are really working against each other. so when i look at the american jobs act - and mrs schaake has already mentioned this - it is certainly not what we envision as a transatlantic partnership. i would therefore be very grateful if you could take up this transatlantic initiative for growth and jobs, which we will be calling for again in parliament tomorrow, if we can make progress and this initiative does not flourish in the same way as this integrated transatlantic market, which we as the european parliament called for in the report by elmar brok and erika mann in 2008. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. net neutrality is the description of how we want to have a neutral transmission on the internet, regardless of the origin and the content sent. that is the case at present. but we have an obvious problem that by 2014 the world's data volume is going to quadruple, by one calculation, to 767 exabytes, and that fixed-line data traffic will increase by 35% per year and mobile data traffic by 107% per year. it becomes crowded on the data highways, and temporary congestion and congestion can lead to quality loss. firstly, it is imperative that the networks be extended. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this direction, most recently under the leadership of mr hökmark. we have a problem with the expansion of the network, which also results from the fact that the telecom companies pay for the expansion of the network, but the internet providers do not pay for it. that's part of the basis of why a debate has been taking place now in recent years, which is asking: there are already certain reactions from operators who are imposing restrictions on the network. berec conducted a survey amongst its members in early 2010 and found that some operators were treating data differently, in relation to speed limitation, charging or blocking, or charging additional fees, to name a few examples. at european level, there is no single, firm definition of what net neutrality is, and this is what the debate is about. the principle is that end-users should be able to access and distribute information or use any applications and services. this is also reflected in everything we have decided here so far, for example in the 2002 framework directive and also in the 2009 telecoms reform package. it was a very exhausting negotiation. mrs trautmann will remember this very well. the commission has also reiterated its intention to maintain the open, neutral nature of the internet and to preserve net neutrality. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take a decision on the application of the directive in the case of a national measure which is not covered by the directive. what is now up and running our minds - and this is why the committee on industry, but not only it, but also the imco committee is dealing with the question at this stage - is that we are seeing that there are already reactions to this in individual member states, legislative decisions, and that on the other hand there is the berec study and the additional commission mandate to examine the data in more detail to determine where there are problems. the commission is obviously saying that there are no major problems. and because the telecommunications council is meeting in december, we believe that we as a parliament need to deal with this issue first, and that is why we have brought it here, in the context of the debate on the mandate to member states to implement the provisions of the telecommunications reform package by 25 may 2011. the council has two questions to answer. we would like to know how the council assesses the impact of this 2009 reform package on ensuring the open internet and net neutrality in europe and how the council intends to ensure a common approach to the open internet and net neutrality across the eu. it is important for us as a committee to believe that there must be a common european basis here, that we cannot have a fragmented area and that we must therefore assess and analyse the situation, but also draw the necessary consequences if necessary. we are now receiving a document from the commission and are awaiting the answers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we all agree that we need an open, fair internet. this has already been said by many colleagues. we need this not only for our citizens, for our users on the net, we need it for the economy - as the commissioner pointed out - but we also need it for our politics, for democratization processes. i only remember the arab spring. many of the developments in the north african states and the middle east would not have been possible without the internet. how can we do that? i would like to refer to what mr van nistelrooij said. the netherlands has made progress with a net neutrality regulation. i am sorry, mr van nistelrooij, but this is the wrong way. i think it is important that we really take a european approach here, that we do not propose 27 separate regulations here, but that we take a harmonised approach to this at least in europe. i therefore ask the commission, above all, to come forward with a proposal promptly after an in-depth analysis of the facts and the involvement of berec and the national regulators. in a subsection on roaming, we are currently discussing this. there will be movement towards changing operators and structural changes. i think that's the way to go. maybe we don't need horizontal regulation of net neutrality at all. roaming is one example. one last point: i think it's important, above all, for our people back home, that there is no misleading advertising about fast transmission rates. many providers lure customers with offers that the data volumes are transferred very quickly. but these offers can only be taken at 3 a.m., otherwise the transmission rates are far from what is often promised in advertising. i would be grateful to you, madam president of the council, if you could reiterate here that the issue of 'no misleading advertising about fast transmission rates' is also being addressed.
i have to say, madam president, the internet is built on two pillars, openness and transparency, and if tim berners-lee hadn't, when he invented the web back then, deliberately waived a patent on html and http, we probably wouldn't have an open web. but he laid the foundation for the idea of a free and open network. the other is the transparency issue: a popular acronym on the internet is wysiwyg what you see is what you get and that has to be true for providers as well. it's good to hear that we all agree on one principle here: the internet belongs to no one, or in other words, the internet belongs to all of us. in this sense, the issue of net neutrality is also crucial, that it remains an internet of those who develop ideas, who are creative or simply want to participate in society. one thing surprises me, though. the council document of 7 november states: wysiwyg what you see is what you get, the council has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. an open internet and the guarantee of non-discriminatory access for all are essential conditions for freedom of communication and information, media pluralism and diversity of opinion. it is therefore an important and correct signal to the commission and also to the member states that we want to have the best-effort principle and also basic transparency rules enshrined. i would have liked, however, to have asked the commission today to define net neutrality clearly and unambiguously and to enshrine it in law. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. i would also like to see a very clear and unequivocal ban on checks on the contents of data packets. i would like to have closed the back door which the resolution leaves open here today. and i can see from the discussion that many colleagues here agree with me and believe that we should continue to work on this.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the resolution on the table, on which the commission has spoken, has addressed some very specific questions to the european commission, and we have remained relatively general in this respect. the european commission's intention to carry out fact-checks on the open internet to ensure transparency and openness is, of course, to be welcomed, but parliament will certainly be watching closely to see whether it stays with this or whether legislation or other measures are also necessary at some point. as regards the openness and transparency of the internet, we in the european union have already made good progress in this area, although we must admit that there are some member states which are still a long way behind in the distribution of infrastructure. i believe that we must insist that openness be given in the matter of the open internet, so that effective access to high quality and valuable telecommunications services is actually ensured in rural areas, and it is against this background that i particularly welcome the communication by commissioner kroes in this area, because otherwise openness will become a mere principle which will not apply everywhere in europe. secondly, transparency will certainly not be achieved by the european commission's fact-checking alone. mr habour has pointed out that the universal service directive gives consumers fundamental rights in several places. it is only through these rights that effective competition is possible, in order to ensure greater transparency through information, particularly in the area of data traffic. the protection of intellectual property rights must not be forgotten. this will benefit european consumers with affordable prices, a wide choice and the ability to switch suppliers, as well as quality services. i believe that we must try to solve these principles in a uniform way in the european union. the commission should not only monitor the internet but also monitor the measures taken by the member states.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. a few hours ago, an important prize was awarded in this room. and it has been said that freedom, justice and solidarity are the pillars of the european union. but i ask you: how does this fit in with the fact that racist violence against roma is, in a sense, the order of the day in many member states and is unabated in bulgaria, romania, the czech republic, ireland, northern ireland, slovakia and the balkans? that expulsions of roma who are eu citizens are not only from france, but also from denmark, italy, germany, finland that is also true! the freedom, solidarity and justice we so often talk about here are either universal or do not exist at all. it is a scandal - i cannot put it any better - that the largest minority in europe continues to be discriminated against, despite the eu's framework strategy and the many promises made by the member states! in the czech republic, i spoke to roma families who were completely shocked and above all frightened because for months anti-roma demonstrations had actually taken place in front of their doorsteps with placards saying: gas roma! this is shocking not only as a neighbour of these roma, but it doesn't do justice to our history if we just tolerate this or try to change it with a little more police. roma children in the czech republic, as in many other countries, still attend special schools and in the czech republic, for example, with severely disabled children! i'm telling you as a leftist that not only do roma people not belong in special schools, disabled people don't belong in special schools either. this is a violation of human rights and i think it is necessary to say that at this point. the european court of human rights has declared the special school for roma to be illegal. but it's still going on! the european roma rights centre has reportedly investigated 44 cases in the czech republic, hungary and slovakia and found that violent attacks on roma are not adequately prosecuted, let alone condemned. many law enforcement agencies are blind in both eyes when it comes to roma. and the czech senate recently unashamedly confirmed that it will not participate in a roma strategy. this is apartheid in the middle of europe! and we have to do something about it. it is also a matter of revenge that the roma framework strategy does not make binding provisions and that the issue of anti-racism is not part of this strategy. i tell you frankly, the measure is full! i ask the commission: how long will it continue to look on? and what about its consistency in ensuring that the framework decision on combating racism and the anti-discrimination directive, for example, are implemented in the member states and are implemented correctly? article 7 of the eu treaty also provides for the possibility of taking action against member states which have seriously violated eu values. i urge you to make use of it. we must defend the rights and freedoms of the roma as european citizens! who else would it be?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that mr swoboda's view is that we have heard from the council and the commission today mainly in vain. but i am not satisfied with our debate either, because i have to say that we do not want to make a french election campaign here, nor is it enough to use anti-discrimination rhetoric, nor even does traditional minority policy meet the problem. it is not a marginal question. it is a problem affecting millions of people from the schluckenau tip in northern bohemia to bulgaria millions of citizens of the european union! and that is why it is a european problem, and a serious european problem! i agree with mrs băsescu that we need more roma representation in the political institutions. i think that the commission should be more concerned about the future of the community. i think that the commission should be able to take the matter up with the council and the council of ministers, and that the council should be able to take the matter up with the council of ministers. we must urgently ensure that roma children have access to education systems, including vocational training and schooling. the family needs to be supported. jobs must be created. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need practical steps, not more words!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sorry about that. i'm a big supporter of free speech. but those were racist remarks and i would ask my colleagues to withdraw them.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, on behalf of the high representative, catherine ashton, i thank you very much for giving us the opportunity to discuss the issue of cluster munitions with you at such a timely moment when negotiations are ongoing in the framework of the united nations to finally ban these terrible weapons on a universal scale. in july 2010, the european parliament welcomed the forthcoming entry into force of the convention on cluster munitions on 1 august 2010. subsequently, in november 2010, the first meeting of states parties took place in laos and the vientiane action plan was adopted. this was a commendable first step to support the full implementation of the convention on cluster munitions. both at the meeting in vientiane last year and at the second meeting of states parties in beirut in september this year, the eu has been a committed supporter of the international efforts to address the overwhelming humanitarian concerns posed by cluster munitions. today, 66 states are party to the convention on cluster munitions. 108 states have signed it. this is tremendous progress in a very short period of time. nonetheless, much remains to be done to include the world’s largest possessors and manufacturers of cluster munitions in the overall divestment effort and to improve the situation on the ground. sadly, this year has shown that this is more important than ever. the high representative, for instance, was deeply concerned about the use of cluster munitions against the civilian population in libya and called upon the armed forces of muammar al-gaddafi to refrain from using force against the civilian population, whether through cluster munitions or any other means. all necessary steps must be taken to ensure that civilians are protected from the effects of such munitions, including unexploded remnants of cluster munitions. this and next week, negotiations are ongoing on a protocol on cluster munitions in geneva in the framework of the review conference of states parties to the convention on certain conventional weapons – the ccw. the eu firmly believes that any new instruments that may be created under the ccw must meet the objective of strengthening international humanitarian law. the high representative and i have taken due note of the fact that the european parliament, in resolutions in 2008 and 2010 and again this year, has urged eu member states to sign and ratify the convention on cluster munitions, while not jeopardising or circumventing this convention by adopting, endorsing or ratifying a ccw protocol vi allowing for the use of cluster munitions which would not be compatible with the prohibition of such munitions under articles 1 and 2 of the convention on cluster munitions. it is our firm conviction that, regarding the ongoing negotiations on a ccw protocol on cluster munitions, such negotiations should lead to substantial improvements on the ground – taking into account both humanitarian and military aspects – which should be compatible with, and complementary to, the convention on cluster munitions. we expect such an instrument to include provisions on cooperation and assistance and to make a significant humanitarian contribution, containing an immediate prohibition on the use, production or transfer of cluster munitions. this would allow the international community to make a decisive step in the right direction and to get closer to achieving our humanitarian objectives. as long as this overall goal is clearly pursued, the eu should actively join these efforts and contribute to the greatest extent possible to this important work to seek to enhance the relevance of ccw to international humanitarian law and to reinforce its fundamental rule that the right of parties to an armed conflict to choose their methods or means of warfare is not unlimited. the very nature of cluster munitions stands against all basic humanitarian principles. this is the reason why the european union as a whole is fully committed to tackling the impact of cluster munitions on civilian populations through all possible means. although not all eu member states are currently parties to the convention on cluster munitions, there is a firm understanding that the eu should play a role in implementing the humanitarian goals of the convention on cluster munitions through efficient and effective delivery of aid. during operations on the ground, as regards assistance to cluster bomb victims or victims of mines, the eu makes no distinction. full compliance with the obligations of the convention on cluster munitions will be a huge challenge for many state parties worldwide. the eu is aware of the complexity of the tasks involved. it stands ready to provide assistance to states in their efforts to implement their national plans effectively, to comply with the convention and to ensure synergies with other equally pertinent international instruments. the eu is thus very much committed to helping turn the legal obligations of the convention on cluster munitions into concrete action.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not it is good that our parliament is dealing with the issue of the worldwide ban on cluster munitions in the context of this resolution on the forthcoming fourth review conference of the convention on conventional specific weapons. the text of the resolution is to be seen as another parliamentary contribution to the progress of our humanitarian efforts in the field of conventional disarmament and arms control. in my view, the resolution reflects two core european demands to the high commissioner and the member states for their participation in the fourth review conference: to maintain the core of the achieved cluster munition cutoff under the convention and to maintain the worldwide cutoff of cluster munitions. let me first weigh the central military-operational argument for the use of cluster munitions against the political-humanitarian argument for worldwide ostracism. from a purely military operational point of view, cluster munitions are one of the most effective conventional weapons, as they have a large radius of action with a low level of resources. the use of cluster munitions is against military targets such as roads, runways or relevant infrastructure in general. this is a purely military point of view, which must be put aside before we make a political and humanitarian assessment of this type of munition. in this context, the global ban on cluster munitions, as pursued under the convention, must be further strengthened. the fatal problem with cluster munitions is that their use often involves a high rate of unintended casualties, which is unacceptable from a humanitarian point of view. this used ammunition has a 15% chance of being blunt. the problem of this high rate is also facing libyan society today, because, as mrs ashton reported in april, gaddafi's forces have also used cluster munitions. the high rate of indiscriminate access to the target area is a clear threat to the civilian population in post-conflict situations, as unexploded ordnance is also clearly no longer useful in combating combatants. the humanitarian threat of a high rate of blind spots can also prove to be a major mortgage in the rapid reconstruction and economic recovery. in my view, this can only mean that the convention on cluster munitions is recognised as the international standard for the worldwide banning of cluster munitions and that the eu and its member states are committed to this. in this context, it is also good that the eu is stepping up its actions to assist third countries in the destruction of cluster munitions stockpiles and thereby mitigate the negative humanitarian effects of the use of cluster munitions.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i welcome, on behalf of my group, the gue/ngl, the very good intergroup cooperation and the majority support for the joint resolution against the use of cluster bombs and cluster munitions. the resolution is an important and powerful signal in the fight against these murderous weapons. we should not forget that cluster munitions and bombs were used in the former yugoslavia, iraq and afghanistan, for example, and - i would remind this house - also by eu countries. there is no justification for continuing to use, stockpile or produce these weapons. not for defense, not for border security. i urge all member states not to support the proposed draft text of the new sixth protocol on cluster munitions to the convention on the prohibition of certain conventional weapons. this draft would be a dramatic step backwards. this draft text prohibits - this cannot be said clearly enough - cluster munitions and bombs manufactured before 1980. this would mean that the cluster bombs produced after that would be allowed to continue and would be used in the future. we cannot accept that! the convention on cluster munitions, which came into force in august 2010, bans all cluster munitions and must be the standard!
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission agrees with you that – as an economic principle – online and offline products with the same content should be treated in the same way. of course you will understand that i personally, as commissioner responsible for education and culture, am particularly interested in this issue. however, the application of the standard vat rate is the general principle set out in eu vat law, whereas the application of reduced vat rates remains an option for member states and is limited to certain categories of goods and services. as for cultural goods, the current option to apply a reduced rate is limited to the supplies of traditional books printed on paper, as well as to books engraved on physical means of support such as diskettes, cds, dvds, etc. on the other hand, supplies of e-books, as well as supplies of online newspapers and online periodicals, qualify as electronically supplied services, to which the reduced rates do not apply. as far as the place of taxable transactions is concerned, until 2015 the supply of electronic services to final consumers within the eu is taxed in the country of the supplier. from january 2015, those electronic services will be taxed in the country of the customer. an optional application of reduced rates by the member states to these products, such as e-books, not only is not permitted under the current rules, but it should also be excluded in the short and medium term as it would lead to distortions in the internal market if only some countries use the option. with your second question, you suggest advancing the date of 1 january 2015 by which the rules on the place of supply will change. the adoption of the directive, as regards the place of supply of services, was the result of long negotiations in council which started in 2003. the entry-into-force date of 1 january 2015 was an essential part of this unanimous agreement, and member states have already indicated that they are not prepared to review this two years after its adoption. as regards your last question, the commission is of the opinion that a political discussion on the current vat rates structure will be necessary in the broader framework of the review of the eu vat system. this review was launched with the green paper on the future of vat in december last year. parliament contributed to the debate with the resolution on the future of vat adopted last month. the commission intends to present, before the end of this year, a communication setting out the priorities for future work on vat. this will be an open discussion and in 2012 we shall decide, according to the results of this communication, what measures we should take.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the digital single market, the so-called fifth fundamental freedom in the european union, is - as has already been pointed out - of considerable economic importance for businesses and consumers alike. this is an area which needs to be developed in the long term, even after the single market has been in existence for 20 years. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all their national policies, including those relating to the environment, and that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all their national policies. the example we're discussing today shows two things. firstly, the possibility for member states to vary the taxation conditions for certain products, in particular downwards, can also create an incentive to market a number of products in their own member state by this means. i think both the commission and parliament know what we are talking about here. secondly, the facts we are discussing today show that further harmonization - and i may quote the consumer rights directive because mrs wallis is here - will not only be necessary in the area of vat. it will require a number of further measures if we are to achieve a truly single internal market in the long term. one of the examples presented here is the different tax treatment of comparable product groups or services that has been observed. for example, while member states have the possibility to apply a reduced rate to goods of cultural content and books, the vat directive requires that standard rates be applied to competing online services such as e-books. however, that difference in treatment cannot be justified in the light of the facts. the e-book market has enormous economic potential for the digital single market and is an extremely young and yet rapidly developing segment in which price plays a major role. we will therefore, commissioner, be following very closely not only mr šemeta's other proposals but also the public consultation on vat that you have mentioned. and i think that it is in the interests of the internal market, particularly in view of the current difficulties, that we should achieve further unification here. but it will require political leadership from the commission.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. tomorrow we will vote on how the european union can give even better support to the international criminal court, or icc for short. and this topic couldn't be more topical. a look at libya and especially syria makes this abundantly clear. one question: what happens to war criminals, their accomplices and accomplices after the sanctions, such as the entry bans and the freezing of accounts? let us remember what happened in libya just recently. a dictator, muammar al-gaddafi, mercilessly shoots men, women and children to death simply because they demand freedom, self-determination and justice. tens of thousands lose their lives, are maimed, tortured to death in prisons. nothing else is happening in syria right now by bashar al-assad. the libyan freedom movement, with international support, was able to win the fight. in syria, the exit is still open. and now the international criminal court is looking for saif al-islam gaddafi, as this has unfortunately become obsolete with his father, and intelligence chief abdullah al-senussi with an arrest warrant. we must support the following message loud and clear: war criminals must not feel safe anymore! the judge is waiting for her. there is no longer any safe haven for them, no statute of limitations for their atrocities. all the victims of cruel international crimes and their relatives rightly expect this. and to achieve these objectives, the icc must also be able to act accordingly. this means that the financial capacity of the icc must be secured and improved. an increasing number of investigations and cases are accompanied by a constant budget. it is gratifying that the un in its resolutions, such as on libya, has called for the icc to take action. but this can only be achieved with more financial support. the witness and victim protection program also requires increased funding. the eu and its member states are one of the pillars of the icc, and that is to be commended! we have made a number of key demands in this report. we call on the eu and the member states to push for further ratification. so far 119 countries have acceded to the rome statute, including tunisia in june. this is great and an important signal to the other countries in the region. turkey, as a candidate for eu membership, should follow this example as soon as possible. we expect this, by the way, from such great powers as china, russia and the united states. we welcome the commission's action plan and hope that implementation will begin swiftly. it is particularly important for us to apply a european-wide code of conduct in dealing with persons wanted on warrants. because we in the eu must set an example for other contracting states. it must be clear that wanted criminals cannot be received with military honours and champagne, but must be handed over to the international criminal court in accordance with the law. it is important that the eu helps countries that do not yet have a functioning justice system to build one so that in the future they can themselves deal with and judge serious crimes according to the rule of law. the case law of the icc will be strengthened in the future when the crime of aggression is added to the criminal record as of 2017. this is another necessary and important step towards a comprehensive international prosecution. the treaty requires the contracting states to ratify the amendment swiftly and to transpose it into national law. the ep's report makes clear its support for the work of the icc. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, with whom cooperation has worked extremely well, the secretariat and the staff, both personal and group staff. i hope that we, as the european parliament, can help justice internationally to take another step forward. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it.
i have to say, madam president, it has really turned out to be a very good and comprehensive report. it shows the eu's will and also the eu's commitment to support this international criminal court to the best of its ability. financially and politically. it is impressive that since 2007, over eur 4 million has been paid directly to the icc. in addition, a further eur 11 million will be provided to civil society worldwide to support its work. politically, it is very important that the eu continues to push for more ratification. we need a substantial increase in the asian region in particular. and we also need to sit down with the big countries like russia, china and the united states so that they can reconsider their position on the icc and ratify it in the future. i think the report is an excellent basis and preparation for the tenth anniversary of the international criminal court early next year!
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the report on the commission proposal for a support programme for the further development of an integrated maritime policy is an approach to achieving the objectives of the lisbon treaty and to increasing coherence between the different policy areas. the positive aspect is that maritime policy has sought solutions across the board and has tried to create synergies. maritime policy goes beyond shipping and fishing. industry, research and alternative energy production, and above all environmental protection, are also areas inextricably linked to the classic aspects of maritime policy. therefore, in future, better coordination between policy areas and between member states with access to the sea must be made possible. the report has added value to the commission's proposal in several respects. in this context, i very much welcome the fact that greater attention has been paid to environmental protection and to the conservation of species and the sustainable use of marine resources, an aspect which, i must say, could have been made even more clear in the commission's proposal. i wish you, mr koumoutsakos, a broad negotiating mandate for your report, and i also thank our colleague, mr milana, for his work and wish him well.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, i'm glad to see you again. a year ago i was here as rapporteur on the further development of the integrated maritime policy. we are now in a position where we can actually, for the first time, anchor a firm policy for the oceans in european policy and where we have the appropriate financial framework. that is the great advantage of this follow-up report by mr koumoutsakos. the integrated maritime policy is not only a matter of great concern to me - one might say - but it is also a hugely important task for the future of the european union. it has already been pointed out that we have more water on earth than land: 30% land, 70% water. there is a lot of value to be gained from water. by sea transport 95% of transport takes place by sea and of course also by fisheries, research or offshore energy. we have a very diverse range of uses for the sea. we have only this one sea and this one earth, and that is why we must try to treat it as gently as possible. this is a great challenge we face. in fact, the imp, the integrated maritime policy, accounts for almost 40% of the eu's gdp. i told you, we've had great success this time, we've made it a reality for the first time. we have not reached 50 million - i thought it was safe last year - but we have reached 40 million, most of which is to be spent on crossborder projects. it is important to have cooperation across borders. i would like to thank mr koumoutsakos very warmly. we were a good team in the trial in the trilogue, which is now closed. we've accomplished a lot because we've been so good together. so thank you very much and good luck to us together in the integrated maritime policy!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have just been discussing the integrated maritime policy and of course fisheries also play a part in it. i know, because i've been dealing with this for a long time, that fishing is usually the last policy. but of course the fishermen play an important role in our food supply. it is also important for small and medium-sized enterprises to work in a protected area and to ensure that there is no illegal fishing that makes it difficult for them to work or to gain a foothold in the market. it is true what has been said: it is not just cooperation with developing countries. of course it matters, because they're importing there, too. it is also important for us to fight illegal fishing. i would therefore like to take up a point which my colleague milana and mrs lövin have just raised. i know that the european coastguard is not wanted by everyone in the same way. but i think we need better cooperation on this, at least in europe. this was called for in a report by our parliament in 2008 on the integrated maritime policy. i have repeatedly referred to it and the commission must make a proposal in this area.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. illegal fishing is a serious threat to the welfare of our fish stocks, but also to all honest fishermen who are cheated out of a part of their income. i would like to take this opportunity to commend the council of ministers for having succeeded in adopting an iuu regulation before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, without our involvement. that was an important step. but isabella lovin's excellent report makes it clear that there is still much work to be done. illegal fishing is a typical example of a problem so large that the european union cannot tackle it alone. we need global solutions. and for global solutions, we need global institutions that can act. as rapporteur for the reform of the common fisheries policy, i would like to conclude by adding that the best protection against illegal fishing is provided by fishermen who know the rules and are convinced of their meaning. this must be our guideline for the new reform.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the international situation requires two technical changes and a change in the composition of the committee. before considering l, we must take the name - some may find it good, others less so - of muammar al-gaddafi, because he was shot. the same applies to paragraph 24. the only thing that is added is: "saif al-islam gaddafi", that is, his son, and "abdullah al-senussi of libya", which is due to the international situation. we would like to add to paragraph 48: 'on international humanitarian law and international justice' that the eusr will be active in these areas. let me add one more thing: i think we're coming at exactly the right time with this report, when we look at the situation in syria. it must be clear that these despots and murderers will not be denied justice. on the contrary, they must be aware all their lives that the sword of damocles of justice in the hague is hovering over them! thank you again for the support of the shadow rapporteurs and the staff. it was a pleasant and very good job.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to say i made a mistake. i would recommend to my group that we vote in favour of amendment no 1.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the various committees in preparation for the us summit and this resolution, all of which are very valuable, but which could not be accepted because of the scale of the resolution. but as the chairman of the us delegation, i would like to take this into consideration with your agreement in working with the american delegation and therefore ask you to add as an oral amendment: 'takes into account the concrete proposals of different european parliament committees and asks the european parliament delegation, the tld, to make use of their input'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i know, of course, that there can be no human war and there will be no human weapons. but there must be a minimum of decency and humanity here too, and cluster munitions are a good example of this. scatter munitions are not the decisive weapon. it is often directed against the civilian population and causes great harm, especially to children. but there is money to be made, there is a customary law, and sometimes there is also the opinion: what one person does, the other can do. i am therefore very pleased about this motion for a resolution and would really like to ask all the member states in the european union to sign and support it. because there's no reason for me not to. we need a ban on this, first of all, and a signature by the member states of the european union, and then we need a ban on this worldwide.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is clear that we all want a single internal market, and it has brought us many advantages in the european union. that's one side of the coin. on the other hand, we would naturally also like the member states to continue to be able to levy taxes at a certain interval on their own responsibility. and that's where two souls beat in my chest, because one must not exclude the other. and in the case of vat in particular, we have the special feature of the reduced rate, which is interpreted quite differently in the european union. in particular, the digital trade in written works - one might say electronic books - is faced with several problems at once, such as the problem of the reduced tax rate in one country and the non-tax rate in another. the first is that it is very difficult to be accountable. i am glad that this motion for a resolution is a way of addressing the problem and helping to ensure that the common internal market also works in this sector for the benefit of our citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal fishing, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the fisheries sector is not subject to any unfair competition. because we want our next generation to be able to fish, too. the fight against illegal fishing is no longer just about fishing, but has become a real criminal enterprise. and it is time for further action to be taken, as proposed in the report. it is also important that we tackle this problem together with our partners in the us and asia, otherwise we are just shifting the problem around the globe. but the fish in the world's oceans are indivisible. that is why we must solve this problem globally! i was a little shocked to see that even the european union estimates that we are committed to sustainable fishing, but at the same time, some 500 000 tonnes of illegal fish are being imported into the european union itself. that is not acceptable and that is why i have agreed to the motion.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. yes, the headlines these days in the international media are again focused on the nuclear dispute with iran. it is good that we in the european parliament are focusing on putting the still serious human rights situation at the centre and not letting it be forgotten. our resolution lists in detail the serious human rights violations to which many citizens in iran are subjected. it's a terrible, a cruel, a very long list. the only example of this was the humiliating flogging of students. we are calling for the amendment of the iranian penal code and the abolition of corporal punishment. the un special rapporteur on iran has spoken in his interim report of a deteriorating human rights situation, of a 'systematic pattern of violence'. we call on the iranian government to take this report seriously and to allow the un special rapporteur to travel to the country immediately. our resolution is also addressed to companies based in the eu. companies supplying technical know-how and equipment to iran. technology that has helped the regime to persecute human rights defenders and suppress civil protest. the iranian government has made it clear that it is working on an internet system that will exist alongside or replace the global open internet system. it's supposed to be based on islamic principles, a so-called halal network. if you look at it closely, it's going to be a tool to control and regulate the general population, but it's going to allow exceptions for banks and merchants. i am very critical of the fact that europe is supplying censorship, filtering and surveillance technologies to iran. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. i would ask you all to sign the amendments we have tabled to that effect.
author. − mr president, egypt is at the brink of falling into old patterns and not even necessarily with new faces. as the elections of 28 november approach, civil liberties and human rights are threatened more than ever in egypt since the revolution. since march 2011, more than 12 000 civilians have been tried before military courts. many democracy activists and bloggers such as abdel fatah and nabil have been imprisoned – some have even been tortured. we demand their release and civilian trials for civilians. we believe that this is not an atmosphere and an environment in which truly democratic elections can take place. at the same time, the eu and catherine ashton speak in empty phrases and seem to put stability once again before clear and unequivocal support for human rights. in a letter to members of this house, sent on 28 october, baroness ashton called the announcement of the egyptian military to stop military trials a necessary step, and that is it. no further call on the egyptian authorities to actually implement their pledges and to respect fundamental human rights. i find this unacceptable. together with my colleague, ms schaake, who just spoke, we have urged the high representative to re-examine the facts and to support the european parliament which has repeatedly condemned military trials for civilians in the strongest terms and continues to do so today with this urgency resolution. the eu has no choice; if we stand aside in the interest of false stability we risk losing the little credibility we have left in the region. real stability will only come if human rights and democracy are taken seriously. the egyptians can be so proud of what they have achieved, and we need to support them in order to achieve their dreams and their hopes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. egypt is an important political factor in the region. this means that a stable, democratic state would also stabilise the whole region. each country must find its own way to democracy. that's right, you're right. but there are also indivisible and indispensable human rights. these include freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly and the rule of law. these are essential and not for disposal. the release of unlawfully detained people, such as alaa abd el-fatah, would be an important political signal that egypt is serious about democracy. that is how we should measure the country, and i support the motion for a resolution that has been tabled. i also ask the european commission to make a sustained effort to ensure that egypt does not merely sell democracy in words, but actually makes it happen.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. tomorrow will be one of the most important votes of this parliamentary term, the legally valid, legally binding vote on the accession of croatia, for which we need a qualified majority. i really ask that you ensure that this vote is placed - as early as possible in the voting time - so that the house also gets the qualified majority. i shall be there anyway, because this is one of the most important votes of the legislative period.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. let me say a few words about the debate on mr de magistris's immunity, because i am also the rapporteur. i would point out that the agenda does not provide for a debate on this subject, but only for a vote. i would also point out that there are five cases against de magistris. it is a procedure that is relatively uncontroversial. as regards the other procedures, we shall first hear mr de magistris.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i just wanted to clarify this because there was a request from colleagues earlier. the defence of mr uspaskich's parliamentary immunity: i must say that this is not really the case. mr uspaskich does not have parliamentary immunity. parliament lifted mr uspaskich's parliamentary immunity on 7 september 2010 - that is, almost a year ago - and nothing has changed. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet known whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. what's this all about? mr uspaskich is accused by the lithuanian law enforcement authorities of having violated party law and tax law in lithuania during the period from 2004 to 2006, when he was the chairman of his party. he was not a member of this house from 2004 to 2006. he was, however, a member of the seimas. he was a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'lugansk people's republic'. he was then elected to the european parliament in 2009, where he was naturally granted new immunity. then we had to deal with it. we listened to it twice. i say this because it is always said that he never had the opportunity to present his case. there were two hearings in the committee. i don't know whether mr uspaskich is guilty, i don't know whether he is innocent. he always says he's innocent. i don't know, man. but it's not my job, and it's not your job, to decide that. it is for the judicial authorities in the member state of lithuania to decide. we have only to decide whether there are two aspects which mean that his immunity, which he naturally has as a member of the european parliament, is maintained and that he is given a different procedure from that of any normal citizen of his country. we came to the conclusion that it was not. the first aspect concerns whether such a procedure prevents him from expressing his free political opinion as a member of parliament, but a breach of tax legislation has nothing to do with freedom of expression. the second aspect concerns the fact that this procedure is, in a sense, followed in his political activity. you can think about that. but after careful consideration, after two hearings, after asking the lithuanian authorities again, we came to the conclusion that this case is not there either. so there's nothing we can do at all but take away the immunity. mr uspaskich - and he is right to do so - then went to the european court of justice, the court of first instance, and asked for our decision to be reversed and for the decision to be suspended pending the main proceedings. the european court of justice has accepted that, of course, but it has rejected the request for interim measures. mr uspaskich then explained that there were new findings. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give a ruling on the application of article 85 (3) of the treaty to the interpretation of the treaty. he would also withdraw his application to the court. i strongly advised him not to do that. it's the only way to get justice in court. i strongly advised him not to do so, but he withdrew his lawsuit. then we looked at the new findings in a new hearing and came to the conclusion that these new findings may be relevant to the proceedings in lithuania but not to the decision on the waiver of immunity. we've studied this extensively, debated the pros and cons in several sessions, and have come to the firm conviction that there is no other way: since we are not deciding on guilt or innocence, but only on whether he has privileged access, we have to say that neither the one point, "political freedom of expression", nor the other point, "political persecution", comes into play here. so we have no choice but to accept that immunity has been lifted. i am not here to withdraw his immunity, because it has already been withdrawn. so we'll stick with my report that the immunity is waived.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i am speaking, of course, also as rapporteur, because i have been dealing with this subject for a long time. it wasn't for fun, and i didn't care. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. nothing has been said about that, nothing at all. i am not judging mr uspaskich's role in the political life of lithuania. that's not my job. that's not your job either! the question is, will he get a fair trial, yes or no? i need proof that he's not getting a fair trial. and that proof was not provided! and, mr. tomaševski, stop with your remarks about bolsheviks and so forth! it's disqualifying rather than helping you find the truth. to be clear once again, this is not about us saying he's guilty or he's not guilty. the question is whether he is being restricted in his right to freedom of expression or politically persecuted. we have come to the conclusion that neither is the case. that is why our decision in committee is that this report is so out of date. i can only recommend that you, as a plenary, agree with our report as a whole.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are discussing the preparations for the european council next week. we are discussing this after the historic liberation of the european council on 26 october, which in turn followed a historic breakthrough in the summer. what is left of the historic breakthrough of 26 october, mr president of the council and mr vice-president of the commission? the long-term solution, the hoped-for change, has not come. i think we can see that now. the efsf, projected to be leveraged four to five times, has proved to be unfeasible, at least in this dimension. it is becoming widely understood - i think more so here in parliament than in the council and the commission - that it is not a solution if we now discuss a long revision of the treaties. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we were looking for security and trust, which is what we do every day. and what do we find? it's not safe. every day, a little more uncertainty! the current debate is characterised by a perception problem in the capitals of the european union. the problem of perception in the capitals, combined with this strange diplomacy in the capitals which still leaves the community institutions out of the picture, can be summed up in one sentence: we are not concerned with the debts of our neighbours! but that is a grave mistake. the debts of our neighbours are a matter for us all, they are a burden on us all together! and so instead of discussing the stability union, discussing the growth union, discussing the debt union, we have to perhaps come to the following conclusion: we need the stability union, yes! but we must recognize that without a growth union there will be no stability union in europe. they're two sides of the same coin. (applause from the centre) the debt of our neighbours is of some concern to us because it is our common destiny in a monetary union in which we all sit together. now we can argue about who caused the debt. what we need to discuss in the present situation is how to get rid of them. how can we limit debt to regain investor confidence in the eurozone and in our currency? i therefore believe that only if we in the euro zone come to a common debt management, a common debt management, will we regain that trust. the council of experts of the federal government of the federal republic of germany yesterday proposed, surprisingly, a community debt management system, as has happened in other cases in similar currency crises: a pooling of debts, a definition of a time-limit within which to reduce this debt, and then to concentrate on how to create what europe needs more urgently than anything else: growth! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what we need in the coming days, weeks and months is bold steps below a treaty revision. because let 's face it . what does a contract revision lead to? we can revise the contracts, there is no trust at all, everything is wonderful and beautiful. but the argument that the treaty revision will restore market confidence in the euro would mean that we would need two years to regain that confidence. because that's how long it takes to get the treaty revision under way with a convention, an intergovernmental conference, a ratification process, including referendums in 27 states. but we don't have that much time! the next item is the answer to the following questions: do we want eurobonds or not? we are not going to support the commission on eurobonds. we did! does the council want that? what about the role of the european central bank? is she a lender of last resort or not? it is interesting to hear the head of government of my country say: 'no, it is not.' she's not a lender of last resort. but of course, she acts in complete independence. that is a literal quote from angela merkel. and we all know that in the complete independence with which the european central bank operates, it buys government bonds every day. it's already acting as a lender of last resort! the answer to the question whether we are systematising this, or whether we are actually putting the debt under management and reducing it, or whether we are actually able to finance the investments through bonds that we need so that the triple a countries can remain triple a countries and those that are not can become triple a countries, that must be the aim of the euro zone, and not a debate on an artificial contract reform that in the end does not bring confidence in the euro! (applause) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).
mr madlener, although i do not have much hope that you will understand what i am saying now, i do not want the germans to pay the debts of others, but i want the germans to contribute so that others can pay their own debts. i have tried to explain this in detail, but i am happy to explain it to you in a bit more detail in the bilateral talks. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not mr verhofstadt, you have again very nicely sharpened your criticism of mrs merkel and mr sarkozy. we must also deal with mr van rompuy, who is closer to you politically than the two of them. i would like to see a clear word being spoken amongst the belgians. (interruption by mr verhofstad: 'he's from the ppe') yeah, i know, but i think closeness is a big deal. i would like to see what we are discussing here actually upheld consistently. it has rightly been pointed out that the fdp is responsible for government in germany. and the commission - we have said this many times here - also has many liberal commissioners whose influence i always miss. we are in agreement on the assessment of the last summit, and we have already made this point after the night of the crisis. it is a matter of the european parliament's own deliberations. the efsf - and i want to say this more forcefully than mr schulz - the leverage is a flop, it does not work at all! the urgently needed recapitalisation of the banks is not working any more than all the strict banking regulation which we have been carrying around for over a year as a monstrosity as necessary. the dispute over the agreed debt relief for greece is stagnating. there is a lot of controversy in greece, but it is not talked about. we have now - unlike at the crisis summit - so-called technical governments in italy and greece, for different reasons. everyone has praised the fact that mr monti, for example, is now taking over the government. but what happens? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. the country is in the same deadly interest rate spiral because austerity alone cannot actually make it better. we've known that for a long time. what can be done? i would like to say this again from the point of view of my group. in the short term, the ecb must play a different role, and the heads of state or government must commit themselves to this. this cannot always be rightly demanded, but it cannot always be demanded only by poland. i would like to thank mr rostowski again for his intervention. it was exactly right what he said. the eurobonds must be prepared, they are already too late. we must now approach the ecb, but we must still prepare the eurobonds. and we must ensure that the lie that is spreading in germany is not always spread, namely that the eurobonds mean that in germany, for example, we take on the risks of the deficit countries and that in these countries life continues in a state of high expectations. the eurobonds are, of course, accompanied by a policy of solidarity. anyone who denies this is actually sinning against the future of the european union. it is truly shocking to hear mr verhofstadt quote: the real economy, big business, is already preparing the scenarios for the end of the single currency. the same article in the financial times today says: "traders prepare for the end game". i am not sure whether mrs merkel and mr sarkozy read different newspapers and different analyses than i do, but when i heard the fire alarm bells here in parliament today, i thought that they were actually an amplification of the alarm signals that should be sent from here to the capitals. it would be worth at least trying, because all the arguments so far have not aligned. let me say one last word about a contract change. i know this is about acute crisis management. i hope i made that clear. but if you know that democracy does not work under these contractual conditions, but remains on the back burner, then you can say that, although changes to the treaty take too long in the acute crisis, if a change is really necessary, it would be wrong to put it off for a long time. i do not think that the enemies of european integration - the non-democrats, the nationalists of the rule of law - would be strengthened if we were now to talk about a change in the treaty and a reorganization of sovereignty. they're not the problem! i think that in the conflict with the law, it is not doing oneself a favour to put democratic new beginnings and good democratic arrangements on the back burner. we discussed this at length this morning at the conference of presidents. but if something is taking a long time, there's no point in putting it off any longer, in even discussing it.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the crisis is spiraling ever faster and more and more euro countries are being dragged into the whirlpool. even the best-rated countries with triple a risk ratings, such as germany, france and the netherlands, are feeling the adverse effects of financial market activity. these markets are playing cat and mouse with the euro states. all the measures we have taken to regulate them have had little effect. this raises the legitimate question of changing the rules of the game. but these must be decided by the eu institutions and not by intergovernmental agreements, as envisaged by merkel and sarkozy. the vicious circle of downgrades and rising interest rates must be broken. we therefore strongly call for the assessment of sovereign states to be qualified by private rating agencies and an independent european agency. the european central bank must also be able to buy unlimited amounts of bonds. chancellor merkel seems to be ready to exchange her opposition to this for stricter controls on the budgets of individual countries and automatic sanctions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to exercise its powers in the area of the budget. this would be a violation of the rights of parliaments. the commission is to be able to impose the path of social cuts, the extension of working hours and the raising of the retirement age. i can only warn against this policy! because the results in germany show that it is very one-sided and affects the mass of the population. the social divide then becomes ever more pronounced. the low-wage sector has reached 20% of all employees! the poverty of the elderly is increasing, while the wealth of a few is growing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i reject this prospect of the european union!
i have to say, madam president, i am already hearing the third speaker here complaining about the surrender of sovereignty. i would therefore like to ask my colleague if he is not aware that this is already a sham sovereignty that exists only on paper, and that we europeans can only be sovereign together against the united states or china or other powers. we must become sovereign together. isn't that what he means?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this house has supported croatia for over 30 years. as a young assistant to otto of habsburg in the early 1980s, i had the privilege of being involved in the first croat exiles, led by mrs dončević, and the first civil rights activists, led by vladimir šeks, who came here to strasbourg and informed us about the croatian people's desire for freedom and the human rights situation. we have been involved in the process of democratization since the first free elections in 1990. and we have tried for a year to do everything possible to draw the attention of the states to the need to negotiate with belgrade a peaceful transformation of yugoslavia into a loose confederation, to which croatia was ready. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. and it was right that the european parliament finally insisted in early 1992 that the european union should recognise the independence of croatia. since then, croatia has been on the path to european union through reforms and negotiations. it is an excellently prepared central european country, one of the best prepared candidate countries we have ever had. i would like to thank mr swoboda very much for the fact that, together with the other rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, we have been able to achieve over the years that it was this house that removed many unfair obstacles that have been accumulated in front of croatia. this country has been blocked time and again in ways that were totally unacceptable, including artificial ones. the natural process of accession was difficult enough, because croatia was tested against criteria that were stricter than any other candidate country had ever had to meet. croatia has overcome these obstacles with great success, and i look forward to the day when croatian observers will help us in the european parliament to give this european union new impetus. i'm looking forward to hearing croatian spoken here. i'm going to the hospital.
i am pleased with mr tannock's contribution, but i just wanted to ask him if he knows that without this former prime minister croatia would not be where it is today and if he does not think that this man deserves a fair trial, not a bonus or a malus, but a fair trial and not a political conviction.
i have to say, madam president, i have only one question for mrs lunacek, namely whether she has read the text. the epp is of course in favour of condemning these acts of violence, which concerns paragraph 14. we are only against paragraph 15 accusing the government or the authorities of failure because the election is a campaign. that's what i was gonna say. we condemn acts of violence.
i have to say, madam president, i am very much aware that croatia - and i would like to expressly support all the previous speakers in their opinion - is certainly one of the countries best prepared to join the european union. in the last few months in particular, a lot of improvements have been made and i am very grateful to the commission and also to our partners in croatia for the great efforts that have been made. but what i'm really excited about is that we have clear rules in the european union about what conditions a country has to meet. and i regret that we are unfortunately taking back a country which does not meet all the criteria one hundred percent. that is why i am explicitly saying - i do not want to put croatia at a disadvantage compared to the other countries - that croatia is further along than most countries at the time of accession. but i would like to see us in future, in all further accessions, really creating equality in justice and not equality in injustice! many of the problems we have in europe today are because we have created good rules, but those rules are far too often not followed. i would be very grateful if we could really take this into account in future accessions.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner rehn, you have been very helpful in this. the debate on the economic and financial crisis which led to the introduction of the european semester has focused on monetary policy and the sovereign debt crisis. the committee on regional development, however, believes that it is important to shed more light on the real economy. we want to address the causes that have led to the differences in competitiveness that have left some countries behind. this is the focus of european policy and must remain so. it is a scandal that some countries do not call on the structural funds. the causes must be examined here, as parliament has decided in my report on the absorption rate. it is not just a question of cofinancing, it is also a question of decentralising decision-making. it is about strengthening the administrative capacity. the committee on regional development is grateful to the rapporteur for including our proposals, because we must now tackle the problem at its root and eliminate the causes of imbalances. (the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
- mr president, i have to say something. the differences in competitiveness are certainly also due to the different reactions of member states to changes in the world economy. it would be too far-fetched to investigate this, because even the opinions of the experts differ. the fact is that even within member states, individual regions develop differently. the committee on regional development therefore believes that the existing cohesion and regional policies offer a good approach to helping regions, cities and municipalities and the businesses based there to adapt better. however, the study of the actual impact also shows that individual member states are better at managing the structural funds - such as estonia or poland, which are doing very well - than others who have difficulty in using the funds - such as calabria, sicily or even greece or romania. the committee of the regions feels that the main task now is to tackle these problems in a concrete way, in order to make better use of the structural funds and to tackle the root causes of the problem.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. when i took over this dossier, i did not expect - to be honest - to spend more than two years negotiating intensively on it. i think that this is certainly very difficult to communicate publicly - both in the eu and to its citizens and in the partner countries. it is noteworthy that in the negotiations on the substance and tasks of the instrument, an agreement was reached in a few months. what dragged the negotiations so long was the interpretation of the treaty of lisbon in relation to the so-called delegated acts and the refusal of some large member states to actually give parliament greater scrutiny. the council and the european parliament agreed early on to make fundamental changes to the financial instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries. we wanted to allocate up to eur 348 million for cooperation in science, academic exchange - including erasmus mundus - culture, environmental protection and renewable energy, and stimulation of bilateral trade relations. particular attention should be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises. it remains so, but the delay means that only a much smaller amount can be invested by the end of the current financial framework. this is all the more regrettable because the new ici+ can also finance projects in developing countries, projects which do not fall within the general definition of development aid, such as the sending of european students to universities in africa, asia or latin america. in the new version of the regulation we have clearly identified the opportunities and challenges arising from geographical enlargement. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assist the member states in the implementation of the community's policies. in the developing countries listed in annex ii, at least 5% of the budget shall be spent on the thematic area of public diplomacy. explicitly, this means promoting the discourse with civil society on the nature and fundamental values of the european union, namely democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. at least 20% of the funds shall be invested in promoting direct relations between the citizens of the european union and the partner countries. in addition to a focus on academic exchange and student mobility, this also means networking of economic, social and cultural players. and at least 50% of the funds should be spent on networking economic activities, with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. the funds will be focused on partner countries that comply with the ilo's core labour standards and that are involved in global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. this is new! in general, the commission is required to focus cooperation in the energy sector on cooperation in the field of renewable energies. for the record and for the commission and the inspection bodies: this instrument is expressly not to be used to provide hidden subsidies for the activities of a european telephone company in colombia or other latin american countries! i believe it is absolutely essential and necessary to ensure that the granting of financial aid does not compromise the fundamental principles of the european union. the commission will continue to support the development of the acp countries in the context of the world food summit in rio de janeiro. we will be constantly monitoring this as a parliament. we have also included in this instrument a special reporting obligation for the commission. we want to see whether the multiannual strategic planning by the eac and the commission for the implementation of our regulation is also in line with the spirit of the legislators. in the past, the commission has unfortunately often said: paper is patient. we therefore wanted to incorporate the delegated acts into this instrument and to claim our role and duty as a legislator with the right of veto. in the interests of those who benefit from the programme, we did not insist on the wording at the end, but we will continue to fight for this democratic right with this instrument as with all the others - and i agree with the rapporteurs on this - in the future.
rapporteur. − mr president, as co-rapporteur of this instrument, i would also like to start by saying something first on the content. the changes brought to the current instrument now entail the possibility of exceptionally covering costs related to taxes paid by ngos when implementing programmes and projects. this is necessary to increase the flexibility of the instrument and because an increasing number of governments are no longer exempting civil society organisations from paying taxes – sometimes to increase the pressure on them and limit their freedom of manoeuvre. in the field of human rights and democracy work, i have to say this is a worrying but very real trend we are observing, so it was very good that we could reach this change. i am confident that the conciliation has also produced positive outcomes for the future instrument for democracy and human rights promotion, which will run from 2014–2020 and on which we shall shortly be receiving a proposal by the commission. indeed, as a result of our negotiations, the commission states in its communication on the eu budget for 2020 that ‘the future legal basis for the different instruments will propose the extensive use of delegated acts to allow for more flexibility in the management of the policies during the financial period, while respecting the prerogatives of the two branches of the legislature’. a joint european parliament and council declaration was also agreed on the use of delegated acts in the area of external relations for the future financial instruments, which strengthens the negotiating position of parliament for the future instrument for democracy and human rights. the agreement we have reached with the council will allow us to decide together on the important strategic aspects of the instruments: objectives, priorities, indicative financial allocations and expected results. this means parliament will have a greater say on how much money goes to one or other human rights and democracy objectives in the next instruments. for example, parliament used to complain in the past that not enough funding went to democracy activities, including support for parliaments. now we will be able to negotiate with the council hopefully by means of delegated acts in the future instrument to have maximum flexibility to modify such priorities. delegated acts would allow us to have a say not only at the birth of the instrument when drafting the regulation, as we do now, but also on the multiannual strategy papers and thus at regular intervals during the life of the instrument. finally, we did not achieve everything we wanted during this round of negotiations, but it has made us determined to achieve it in the next round which will start in january.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. i can only agree with my colleague goeren's criticism of the council, and i too miss the council very much today. however, after all the praise for the compromise and the dissent, i would like to take this opportunity to conclude the debate by reiterating that the commission should now present a completely revised strategy paper on ici+. it is not possible that we, as legislators, fundamentally re-orient the instrument and then the commission continues with an old strategy paper written before the new law, which therefore retains the old communication 'global europe' as a reference document. the legislators have given the regulation a new meaning, one of partnership and mutual benefit. the legislators are putting the regulation in the context of other key eu policy objectives, in particular coherence with development policy, enforcement of international labour standards and combating climate change. the strategy paper, however, continues to ignore this will. the aim of multiannual planning was to promote european economic and profit interests. the instrument is intended to literally address difficulties for eu companies to penetrate certain markets. we have not, as legislators, targeted this with the instrument and the corresponding tax money. ici+ is meant to be a modern cooperation programme, not a weapon of conquest. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one. we don't want to write the planning and strategy papers ourselves. we have made that clear time and again. the commission should continue to do so. but we do use and claim a veto if the guidelines we have written are ignored. the proposals for the new generations of financial instruments must therefore make use of the principle of delegated acts.
rapporteur. − mr president, let me come back to the instrument for democracy and human rights. the contributions in this debate have also shown that this instrument is one in which parliament has always had great faith and for which it has had a keen passion. but we also see, for example in the ongoing discussion on the european endowment for democracy, that we clearly need to render this instrument more flexible, and readier to support urgent cases like human rights defenders, civil society under threat, unregistered actors and social movements, and so on. let me also repeat that the principle of greater involvement of the european parliament in the establishment, running and control of the human rights and democracy instrument has been accepted on all sides, from the eu institutions to member states to civil society. therefore, i would like to invite and to call on colleagues to get ready for the upcoming struggle. last time we had to fight for the very existence of the instrument. now we will have to work to support its improvement.
president of the conciliation committee delegation - mr president, at this stage of the debate, if i may make a slight subjective remark, i, as president of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, feel like that pupil who presents a high-quality essay to his teacher in terms of content, vocabulary, spelling and syntax, with a small blur of ink on the last line, and is suspended. mr. president, this is very painful. i would like to thank the honourable members for their kind words and, since we have spoken of precedent, is it or is it not a magnificent precedent that all the essential elements of those instruments are in this transitional agreement under co-decision? is it or is it not a good sign for the future that in this transitional agreement the council offers us a political declaration, by which it undertakes to give due consideration to the use of delegated acts in future financial instruments? so when we talk about strategic issues, i think that, strategically, we have taken an interesting step forward with this agreement. of course, when the commission sits down to negotiate with each individual banana exporting country how the money decided upon will be spent in that country, under the control of parliament, according to its criteria and priorities, at that time the member states have something to say in accordance with the old procedure. but it seems to me that to demand that the member states be excluded from this last concrete final step was to rush things a bit. therefore, considering that there are steps forward and considering that the political and social consequences of failure would be very negative, i reiterate my position to ask the house... (the president cut the speaker off)
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 1 december, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the commission statement on the internal market forum.
member of the commission. − mr president, the economic and financial crisis that we are facing can sometimes cause us to forget about its human impact. it is therefore right for us to take a couple of steps back to consider the ultimate objective of all our reforms: the social and economic wellbeing of our fellow citizens. we must accept this responsibility for our fellow citizens, who are also consumers, workers, taxpayers and savers; for our companies, whether they be small, medium-sized or large; and finally, for our countries and their regional and local authorities. all these players are the first to feel the specific consequences of the current shocks, which are compounding existing problems with the single market. we must show them that the single market can give rise to concrete benefits. that is why we organised the single market forum (simfo) in krakow in early october, in partnership with you at the parliament and the polish presidency. the forum was attended by over 1 000 people during the discussions and almost 10 000 at the single market fair held at the same time. at this point i would like to thank róza thun, louis grech, malcolm harbour and silvu buşoi, whose participation in the commitment of parliament made simfo such a success. the forum made it possible to bring together all players in the single market. it was a great success, from which we can draw two conclusions. it has enabled us to back up our political discussions with concrete examples, which are also calls to take action to improve the lot of the people of europe during this period of crisis and allow us to see our choices in relation to their real needs. it has enabled us to directly communicate the reforms that we are undertaking. we must constantly strive to disseminate information about our initiatives, from the time when they are discussed to their implementation. the comments that were collected reflected the results of the survey concerning the 20 main concerns of european citizens in their day-to-day lives. the study has reaffirmed the need for citizens and companies to be better informed, and for the rules of the internal market to be applied more effectively with regard to health, social security, the recognition of professional qualifications, online purchasing, public procurement and the protection of intellectual property between countries, in particular. we have now noted the krakow declaration drafted by the participants in the forum, and we undertake to do what it has called for by taking the measures determined in connection with the single market act. we can identify three main courses of action: firstly, make the single market a safer place on a daily basis for the citizens of europe. we want citizens to have confidence in the single market and to know their rights when making a purchase in another country or on the internet, or moving within the eu for personal or professional reasons. we therefore intend to simplify mutual qualification recognition procedures in order to encourage mobility on the part of our fellow citizens in the internal market and ensure that their aims are not stymied by administrative barriers; we will propose reinforcing legislation concerning the posting of workers and clarifying the balance that must be struck between economic freedoms and fundamental rights; and we intend to enable consumers to make greater use of the single market. yesterday the commission approved a package of measures aimed at ensuring that european consumers who buy goods and services (online or offline, in their country or in another member state) have access to alternative dispute resolution mechanisms to solve their disputes with traders, without necessarily having to go to court. moreover, with regard to e-commerce, we need to de-mystify this new form of consumption and make it safer, also for our companies, because it is still under-used to a very significant extent. secondly, make the economy of the internal market more dynamic by ensuring full implementation of the services directive and improving the distribution channels for goods in europe; and by addressing businesspeople directly and improving the conditions in which they must operate in order to increase their competitiveness in a more competitive market and reduce their administrative burden. there are a number of specific measures intended to achieve this: the creation of a single patent, which is a major milestone in supporting creativity and innovation in europe, and other measures to increase the observance of intellectual property rights; an action plan for smes, to increase their access to funding in the form of venture capital, on the stock market and through bank loans; simplification of accounting rules; and simplification of the rules for public procurement. thirdly, support and facilitate public action. we are going to review the directives on public procurement in order to make the lives of public and private operators easier and increase the integration of social and environmental issues and issues relating to project innovation. we are also going to fill the legal void currently surrounding the procurement of services in europe in order to improve the relationship between contracting authorities and private contractors, both when a contract is put out for tender and throughout its implementation. finally, we aim to renew our relationships with third parties and to introduce greater reciprocity into public procurement in particular. we have placed all these measures within the framework of the single market act and we must ensure their implementation. 2012 will be a crucial year for the delivery of these reforms. it will be a milestone in our project to relaunch the single market on the 20th anniversary of its creation. to turn this celebration into an exciting event, we intend to work with all the players on the single market to organise a single market week focusing on new growth, along the lines set out in the krakow declaration. during this week, local events will be organised in each member state and a big event will be held in brussels. i am counting on your participation to enable us to make the 20th anniversary of the single market a success for everyone.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. at the single market forum in krakow on 3-4 october - commissioner dalli has already mentioned this - we had over 1 000 participants. we had the opportunity to spend two days in a small or medium-sized town outside brussels discussing all the current internal market and consumer issues in their entirety. this has done a great deal of good to the content of the legislative proposals which are now before us! it has shown that we in this parliament, across the political groups, agree on many points that we want to strengthen consumer rights in the field of alternative dispute resolution, that we need to strengthen electronic commerce in the european union unconditionally in order to promote crossborder business more and that we also want simplification in the field of public procurement. it's what brought us together across all factions! it has shown quite clearly that what professor monti has put together in his paper for the president of the commission - that the internal market needs not only economic governance but also single market governance, i.e. a single set of rules for all member states and for the players in the internal market alike - is fully supported by this house. i therefore want to focus on the conclusions of the krakow single market forum. the polish state secretary has explicitly indicated that member states would be willing to accept more regulations if they were good for the internal market. i would like to reiterate on behalf of my group, the epp group, that when drafting the internal market acts we attach particular importance to the commission's carefully considering whether it can put as many of the proposals as possible into the form of a regulation. the second aspect concerns infringement proceedings, which must be dealt with more quickly. the commission is on the right track here. finally, it is also essential to encourage the reduction of red tape for small and mediumsized enterprises.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. the forum in krakow was indeed a great success. it must also be repeated, because good initiatives should really have a continuation. i would like to thank my colleague, mr louis grech, who had the original idea of presenting the 20 most important concerns of citizens at such a forum. this was the heart of what we did, to put the concerns of citizens first, so that they could see that the single market is not something abstract, but actually has added value for them. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union, in particular the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the member states and the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. a great many subjects were discussed and the problems identified. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. we are therefore expecting everything that you as commission have promised for next year, and parliament and my group, the socialist group, will be very critical and positive about what you put on the table.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 1 december, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the one-minute explanations under rule 150 cs.
this item is closed.
madam president, yes it is true that we need more money in the european budget to have programmes to educate about hiv/aids and to monitor it. but i wish to ask ms parvanova if she agrees with me that member states are neglecting that disease and that we have different amounts of money spent in member states – which is a shame, as we heard from ms childers – and that it would be necessary to ask the commission to ask the member states to show us how much money they spend on education programmes, how much money they spend on treating the disease, on hospices and on helping to eradicate this disease? it would be good if we could ask the new presidency, the danish presidency, to deliver those numbers as soon as possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the 2012 budget is a budget of savings, with growth below the rate of inflation. and the political question we have to ask and answer is: is this the right decision, a forward-looking, pro-european decision? from a green perspective, the eu budget, like national budgets, must set new priorities. we must dismantle unsustainable policies, especially at european level, unsustainable policies in agriculture and in structural funds policy, and instead build sustainable policies that promote competition. we heard a dramatic figure for the year 2010: co2 emissions worldwide increased by 6%! this is not a policy we can continue to pursue if we want to save our planet. and the european budget is not doing enough in this area either. we are living in times of austerity, and i should like to stress that i myself come from the smallest federal state in germany, bremen: we have had to make a policy of austerity for years, so i know very well what i am talking about. i'm not living on the moon, i'm not an alien in brussels. i understand the plight of the member states. but the budgets of the member states have all increased in recent years, the european budget much less. you have to put that in perspective. and so i think there is a good reason to say that it is right that the small european budget, which represents only 1% of the gdp of the member states, needs to increase in targeted policy areas, because it is about future spending, about new competitiveness, which we are sorely lacking in many european member states. the european budget must make a clear policy on this. what is good about this budget from a green point of view? the new financial supervisory agencies have been allocated funds of around eur 25 million. this is urgently needed to better regulate the financial markets. there are important pilot projects for innovation or sustainable financing of digital cultural markets. and there is a will in our own administrative budget in parliament to make structural savings of 20 million on translation and interpretation, and also on travel costs. these are clear signs that we members are prepared to tackle the budget with our own limitations. i believe that this is also an important signal to the public, to the citizens of europe. but i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, and especially the representatives of the council: is this a budget which really takes the european added value, our common european interests, seriously? i can't see that! the european budget, mr lewandowski has just said, should look very different from the great challenge facing the durban conference. it is above all an investment budget which we must use, with all the necessary austerity, to create new targeted incentives for new sustainable products, new sustainable technologies, new jobs, so that we can be more successful in the internal market, but also in the world market. because only if europe is ahead with these products will we have a chance against the new emerging countries like china and india. we'd have to do more! i am missing that common european will in this budget. where do i find inconsistency in the european council? they've been preaching all along, saving, saving, saving! but when it comes to the fusion reactor, for which fission products, tritium, are also needed, if it is ever to work, 1.3 billion euros more are to be spent over the next two years. i ask you, is that consistent? if we really want to save money, we should concentrate on those future tasks, especially in research policy, which we know will be successful in the coming years. the iter fusion reactor is completely open. that is why it is wrong to withdraw money from the research framework programme now. i also see a problem with interinstitutional trust. we have had the council's declaration that the commitment appropriations which are received must be actually financed. it's not so clear now. and that is why my group does not consider itself able to vote in favour of this budget!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the presidency of the council, the commissioner and, in particular, the two rapporteurs, who have done an excellent job together with the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr lamassoure. the european parliament has spent a good two hours discussing the conciliation procedure with the council. perhaps next time it would be useful for the council to negotiate not during the conciliation procedure but after it has reached a common position. it would make the job easier for all of us and extend saturday mornings a little. i am not going to go into the details of the budget. we have met the council. the amount of payments was limited to 129 billion, in accordance with the wishes of the council, and the appropriations for commitments were fixed at 147 billion - the figure we had in mind as parliament. we are not fooling ourselves, but we are pushing a very dangerous avalanche here. if the council is prepared to finance the commitments it has made by means of supplementary budgets, i would personally prefer to see a budget drawn up from the outset with a clear financial basis, so that we do not need to keep on amending budgets. that just shifts the problem to the future. another problem that has emerged is that the european union needs to invest more in research and development. this is unanimously supported by all - including the member states. but this will not work in a capped budget unless you are willing to move away from dogmatic conservation and subsidy thinking. if we do not shift to r & d and to strategy 2020, we will not be able to meet these priorities. but at the same time we have shown that in times when citizens need to tighten their belts, the european parliament can do the same. i would like to thank mr fernandes in particular for his excellent work in this area. we have come to a good result. we will be able to agree. but whether it is the right approach in the long term remains to be seen.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, it can be said that the european parliament has also fulfilled its responsibilities in this area. we have adopted a budget within the necessary timeframe, so far as the world is concerned. that's the good news. the other bad news - and i am personally very angry about it - is that the member states are constantly giving new tasks to the european parliament and are constantly delegating new tasks to us, but then, when it comes to financing, they do not delegate the necessary financial resources. that will be our task for the future: there must be a fair trade, a fair deal. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. that is why i abstained on this motion. but again, the european parliament has lived up to its responsibilities and adopted the budget within the time-frame.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the amendment of the accompanying measures for the banana sector because this report does not take any account of the decisions of the lisbon treaty. the report enables the council to take far-reaching decisions on development policy in ten important acp countries on its own. there is no political or legal reason why parliament should not be involved in the decisionmaking process on development policy through delegated acts. on the contrary, parliament should pay particular attention to its powers as the representative of the people, so that it can participate in deciding on the conditions and purposes for which taxpayers' money is used in development policy. in a memorandum of understanding for the period after 2013, the council agreed to give due consideration to the delegated acts. i think that is a violation of the rights of parliament. the powers are clearly distributed. we should not do without it!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the baden-württemberg colleagues and i abstained today in the vote on croatia's accession to the european union. the result of the vote, however, has shown positively that there is a very broad and good support for the accession of this 28th country to the european union, and we are pleased about that. the accession of croatia on 1 july 2012 shows that the european union remains a strong community with attractiveness. the result of the vote also shows that croatia, which has been subject to the most stringent conditions in recent years, has largely complied with them. however, mr president, many citizens believe that we must finally make sure that the implementation of european law is measured really consistently against what we need in europe. many member states of the european union do not meet these requirements themselves. we recognize that. however, we see that croatia will also have to make some changes before it joins. we hope that croatia will then actually meet all the conditions and become a full member of the european union on 1 july 2012. we have therefore decided, together with our colleagues from the baden-württemberg group, to abstain. we see this as a positive invitation to croatia to overcome the remaining obstacles.
in writing. − the fdp in the european parliament agrees to the hübner report amending regulation kom(2011) 0482 only on condition that the increase in the current co-financing rates by 10 percentage points is an exception for the explicitly concerned countries. the derogation should not be a precedent and should be repealed once the severe financial and economic crisis has been overcome, with the corresponding liquidity constraints for the states concerned.
in writing. − the fdp in the european parliament agrees to the hübner report amending regulation kom(2011) 0482 only on condition that the increase in the current co-financing rates by 10 percentage points is an exception for the explicitly concerned countries. the derogation should not be a precedent and should be repealed once the severe financial and economic crisis has been overcome, with the corresponding liquidity constraints for the states concerned.
in writing. − in recent years, the eu has experienced a period of rapid growth. since 2004, 12 new member states have been added. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the eu is currently facing its greatest test since its founding, the current debt crisis. the european union must now concentrate on its expansion in order to preserve the europe project. a 'no' at this stage is not directed against the croatian people and the efforts of large sections of the population, but for the stability of the union. for these reasons i voted against croatia's accession.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco has been the subject of debate in this house for more than a year now. i am sure that will be the case after tomorrow's vote. this agreement has become a very emotional issue. the whole parliament is talking about this agreement, all the groups have been discussing it in the last few days and weeks, and with controversy. it is a fisheries agreement which must be analysed in detail. what is this analysis? we in the committee on fisheries agree that this agreement is not environmentally sustainable because it contributes to overfishing. unfortunately, this has been lost in the debate so far, but it is a very central point. in view of the catastrophic state of the world's oceans, the european union must not overfish its own waters, let alone those of others. the protocol is not interesting from an economic point of view either. there's no way this is a win-win situation for us. there is also the question of western sahara. i'm sure we can all agree on this, too. the agreement must be in accordance with international law. all this is not in the current minutes on which we are voting. that's why you can't really agree. now we are comforted that in the future everything is to change. i hope so, and we are happy to help the council and the commission with our resolution to do nothing wrong in the negotiations with morocco. the only compelling reason for agreeing is that we are close to the expiry of the protocol and the commission has asked us not to interrupt it in order not to burden the new negotiations. she assured us that all our demands would be incorporated into the new protocol. i not only expect it, but we rely on it.
i thank you very much, mr berman. you'd have had plenty of time. if you had read a little slower, it would have been better. we should have a little consideration for the interpreters, otherwise what you want to say to the house will not be understood in other languages.
i would like to use it as a reminder to all colleagues: if you have texts, please read them in such a way that they are understandable in all the official languages of the european union. (catch the eye)
member of the commission. − mr president, i think that i must clarify some points. i would like to underline that the commission is here to defend the common european interest. our common fisheries policy is about the common european interest, so i cannot accept arguments that, in the case of this agreement, only this or that member state fishes there. there will be other agreements whereby other member states will fish there. also, we are all european citizens and all of us consume fish, which is a very important part of our diet. we are the world’s leading consumers of fish and we need to have good relations with all the nations across the mediterranean and other areas. so, please, while i understand that we are going through a very difficult time, a very difficult situation, this separatist narrative is not really fruitful. the second point i should clarify is that the commission does indeed care about the rights of the people. we are not saying that we do not care about the rights of the people of western sahara. that is why we have gone for an interim protocol; that is why we have pressed the moroccan government to give us data on how the local population will benefit from this agreement or other agreements. that is why we have come to you with an interim protocol. that is why we are trying to negotiate a new agreement, under all the circumstances of which you are already aware. what we are trying to ensure, i can assure you, is that any new agreement including the western sahara will be introduced only on condition that we are sure that the local population will benefit from it. we do care, but please be aware that it is not easy to solve the international problem through this agreement, and the commission cannot accept that idea. let us be clear on this point. i am here to explain everything to you and to say very clearly that the commission is going to respect your vote. i would like to have a clear answer: do you want a new agreement? i can promise you that i will do my best to obtain a better agreement. a better agreement means one that is economically profitable, environmentally friendly, and in accordance with international law. it is not as easy as it would appear from some speeches here to interpret international law. so, please, i would like to have a clear answer on this. i can see that there are different opinions. i can see that some people are against the fisheries agreements in general; others are against this agreement in any event. some others think that we need a better agreement; yes, but after all we need a clear line. what i can say to finish, as i have used up a lot of time, is that the commission is already preparing a negotiating mandate for the next agreement. i can assure you that, if we negotiate another agreement, it will be better than the previous one, but we need the consent of parliament to do so. let us be honest and face facts: if parliament says ‘no’ to the agreement, then we can have no agreement. i would like a clear line on this. referring to the past, i agree with you that the agreements we had were not economically profitable or environmentally friendly, and that is why we are going to change them. that is why we are reforming the common fisheries policy, and i hope you are going to support us in order to get this reform through the council and its decision-making process. we need this agreement, however. that is my opinion. we need to have good agreements, but we do need agreements, as otherwise we are going to be isolated from all these areas.
the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the joint debate is closed. the vote will not take place tomorrow but on thursday, 15 december, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by reimer böge, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, and in particular the multiannual financial framework, in order to cover an additional financing need for the iter project[k(com2011) 0226 c7-0108/2011 2011/2080(aci) ]a7-0433/2011).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the majority of this house wants to give the international fusion project iter a chance an international project under the leadership of the european union, endowed by council decision with eur 6.5 billion by 2020 as the eu's share, representing 45% of the total funding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i note that iter will hopefully now take place on the basis of improved project management. but at the same time this house also insists that other priorities of research and innovation are not financially undermined by the iter refinancing. we have not been able to find a solution, a compromise for refinancing, in the last year. we have rightly dissociated the 2012 budgetary procedure from the solution of the iter question. the second run has had a triple result, namely eur 100 million from iter budget lines for the 2012 financial year, a revision by increasing the ceiling of heading 1a by a total of eur 840 million in 2012 and 2013 and, in return, a corresponding reduction in heading 2 and 5. this is relatively uncontroversial. we then agreed, after a lot of wrangling, on the following wording: that 360 million should come from the third tranche of transfers to be made available in the 2013 budget within the ceilings of the financial framework. the text of the trilogue says: 'all the possibilities provided for in the financial regulation and the interinstitutional agreement are allowed without recourse to revision'. so far, so good. i'm going to go. the committee on budgets has approved the trilogue result by a large majority. i regret to note that in the decision adopted by the court of auditors yesterday, six member states, namely austria, france, germany, the netherlands, sweden and the united kingdom, added that they regretted that it was not specified where the 2013 funds should come from. i quote in english: "with regard to the draft budget 2013, the commission is therefore asked to determine the required appropriations for iter without using the negative reserve, the flexibility instrument or margins". this text is a provocation! this text is not intelligent, it is politically stupid and bold. it is in fact nothing more than a blocking minority in the council, which is acting in advance and which breaks and destroys the spirit and content of the compromise reached in the first second. that's not how we bet! we shall have to discuss this further after the debate in the committee on budgets. i will recommend to the groups in this house that we agree to the report on the revision, that we stand by the agreement. but i will also say that we will only be able to guarantee the 360 million for 2013 if the commission acts strictly on the basis of the trilogue result in the draft budget for 2013 and does not follow the lead of this blocking minority in the council. we can only guarantee the 360 million if the council is willing and able to negotiate on the basis of the trilogue result by using all means of the financial regulation and the iia. parliament must clearly show its flag here. the way in which parts of the council are dealing with parliament and are not prepared to have substantive and budgetary discussions definitely has to come to an end. the commission has already made a number of proposals. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control have both paid great attention to ensuring that in future good management of the iter project is essential, that the finances are controlled, that we have a proper review of the financial resources and also that the progress is financially within a proper framework. however, i think it is extremely problematic that when we have a jointly defined project of the member states, which the member states have decided in the council, the council has decided in the same breath that it wants to increase research funding and expand the financial endowment of research, which creates the problem that the seventh research framework plan is actually to be cut in favour of iter. that was not what was originally decided by the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i wonder how we can gain european prestige in the world if we leave behind such a picture of fragmentation and of not being able to unite in a large, global, international project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. either we really consider iter to be an important project and parliament is willing to do so. but then the member states should also make their own proposals for meaningful funding, without prejudicing research, in addition to what they have decided themselves.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we, the green group in this house, have two reasons why we do not vote for the additional funds for the iter fusion reactor. it's a risky technology for us because you need radioactive tritium to heat the fusion process. we are finding, in the year of fukushima, that the european union should do everything possible to dismantle these kinds of risky technologies and not build them up. we did not, however, presume to be able to judge the success of the project. success is indeed open. but there are, of course, reasonable doubts whether it will be as successful as all the majority supporters here always say. but we have a budgetary problem, above all, with the additional funding. we just heard: eur 100 million in the 2012 budget alone is taken out of the research framework programme, i.e. deducted from other major research investments. and for 2013, funding is now fully open again. the council has behaved in a way - i can only agree with mr böge - which has nothing to do with fair behaviour, but which illustrates the fundamental attitude of six member states who are only interested in redistribution in the european budget and who are clearly no longer willing to see how important the europe 2020 strategy is for the european union to take money into its hands and really invest in new competitiveness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that's not what the iter fusion reactor is doing, it's helping to take much-needed money out of the new competitiveness area and put it into this fusion reactor, even though no one knows if this project will ever succeed. this is a wrong priority from a green point of view. that is why we shall vote against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. first of all, on behalf of the itre committee, i would like to express my thanks to mr reimer böge for the almost two years of attempts to reach a compromise on iter funding. the council's proposals for tomorrow are still an attempt to find a solution, even in the face of the council's irrational actions. but i would like to point out two things: for one thing, i was part of the trilogy myself. the council's argument in the trilogue to the parliament's argument at the time that the budget line for iter was not enough was a desperate plea to find a compromise in fp7 on the subject. we made it clear in the trilogue that excess costs could not come from pillar 1. the council has therefore looked at the problem with a clear-eyed eye. the only consequence for us is that horizon 2020 needs its own budget line for the major european research projects - for iter, for galileo, but also for gmes. the commission is now called upon not merely to act as a participant in the dispute between the council and the commission, but to take action for the future itself.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to underline again that the commission welcomes the compromise reached after very difficult discussions. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent work, because this was really something very difficult to achieve. this is an experimental scientific project, but we need to finance it since it is a major project and a major scientific challenge with great prospects. it is also a commitment – an international commitment by the european union, and we have to show that we can fulfil our commitments and, in spite of the difficult circumstances, the difficult financial situation, we cannot postpone the very important scientific commitments we have already made. referring to the objections, we have heard about the commitment of the japanese government, referring to the fukushima accident. well, of course, the fukushima accident may have had an influence on their position, but what i would like to make absolutely clear is that in mid-november the japanese government came to the iter council and committed themselves to fulfilling their obligations. so your argument about the japanese government is groundless. on nuclear liability, which is a great problem and which we understand is a legal problem that is very difficult to solve and very complex, as you have underlined, the iter organisation and the governments around the table are trying to find a solution. we have to seek a positive way forward, and since we have reached an agreement we have to support it. one last remark, on the coreper meeting today. i think that we have to stick to the fact that the compromise was adopted there, despite the different options and different opinions and the statement by some of the member states. what i can say on behalf of the commission is that the commission is sticking to its right of initiative and will come forward next year with a good proposal to parliament and the council on the 2013 funding for this project.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i shall now take up what mrs damanaki said at the end - diplomatically, carefully worded, but the commitment to the trilogue result. this is exactly what we expect from the commission, because if it does not use its right of initiative correctly in accordance with the agreement, it loses its privileges. i therefore expect that you will use this right of initiative of the commission in this way: fully on the basis of the spirit and content of the trilogue result, and that some member states will not try to exert pressure and possibly destroy the whole structure again, which could actually only be agreed in the three stages as we have negotiated it. we have also tried to discuss intensively in the debate in the committee on budgets the management problems raised by mr paška. we hope that in the future it will be better. there have indeed been failures and mistakes. and a warning to the commission and the council: before making international commitments, as the council did to the international research community on iter with the eur 6.5 billion, including the eur 1.3 billion in co-financing, you should contact parliament as part of the budgetary authority. i would remind you that commissioner ferrero-waldner has always been very positive and constructive in her past practice with the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on budgets on foreign policy issues. so some of the lines of conflict had been straightened out from the start by reasoned discussion. finally, madam vice-president, what mr ehler said, looking at the long-term perspective, is that we must be clear: if we want major projects - whether iter or galileo or whatever - we must be clear about the duration of the funding available, so that we do not become permanently entangled in this problem of post-financing. these projects also belong to the european budget, but they must be adequately financed so that we do not have to repeat the tohuwabohu of the last two years with these necessary major projects. i would therefore ask the house to approve the report tomorrow with the comments we will be making, but to clarify how we will approach the 2013 budget to resolve the outstanding eur 360 million.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the combined work and residence permit for third-country nationals in the eu started as a de facto tiger and ended up as a bed-maker. this does not open the door to a genuinely simplified system for third country nationals wishing to work in the eu. nor is it because more and more people are linking any stay with work. that may be good in many cases, but it's all that's left, and that's what we find difficult. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's small and provincial. not only is the scheme supposed to apply only to the issuing member state and not to the eu as a whole, but no one is talking about it anymore. the scheme should also not apply to family members of union citizens who are third-country nationals, seasonal workers, intra-group posted workers, persons enjoying international or temporary protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of asylum is guaranteed. the second is that there is no real facilitation and legal harmonization, not least because the member states have a say in all matters, for example, who is to apply for a permit, the employer or the employee. if the employer does this, the application will not be received by the potential employee if it is rejected, for example. he has no legal right to express himself in any form whatsoever. we also criticise the fact that a request can be declared inadmissible if the member state sets quotas for the labour market. thirdly, it is positive - and i think the rapporteur is also in favour of this - that pension rights are recognised. but it is totally unacceptable that there is no complete equality of treatment with the native workers. there are significant restrictions, depending on caste, on vocational training, on social benefits, for example for family members, and on access to public housing. that is not acceptable. if you make that the basic policy, that is a mistake and you cannot support that. that is why we reject it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have just heard with some dismay from my colleague that this directive is supposedly intended to encourage unrestrained mass immigration. the realities are quite the opposite. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the right to work and reside in the eu. this is a safeguard for those who work neatly and cleanly, and not a gate that is opened. i also find it amusing that some people complain that too few groups are included, and others complain that there is supposedly a mass migration. i congratulate the rapporteur. it seems to have found the golden mean between the necessary individual distinction between member states in certain areas of decision-making and the fact that on the other hand a certain guarantee of social security for those who work properly can be achieved. the fact that family benefits depend on the length of stay, but that someone who has earned his pension can take it with him if he has worked properly, should also be normal. i therefore find it a little strange to stir up the fears of the population that there will be a general competition for jobs. this has nothing to do with this directive.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner reding, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is important, especially in these weeks and months, to stress again and again that the european union is more than a market. it is a community of values and it must prove itself, especially in difficult times, as a strong community of values in all policy areas. the eu and its member states are founded on the common principles of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. the presumption of innocence, based on clear and comprehensive procedural rights for the accused, is an indispensable element of the rule of law in criminal proceedings. following the directive on interpretation and translation, the new directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings is another important building block to ensure that suspects and accused persons are afforded a fair trial throughout the eu. the development of equivalent standards for procedural rights in criminal proceedings will strengthen the trust of our citizens in the legal systems of the member states. it also promotes the mutual recognition of judicial decisions. the individual can only exercise his procedural rights fully if he is aware of them. it's crucial to a fair trial that you're aware of your rights, that you know what the charge is. when authorities disregard these procedural rights, they jeopardise the fairness of the proceedings and risk miscarriages of justice. the existing eu legal framework in the field of justice focuses on better cooperation between judicial authorities. the new directive, on the other hand, focuses on our citizens and the rights they enjoy in criminal proceedings. it requires police officers and prosecutors to provide written information to detainees about their rights in plain language that they understand. these include, in addition to interpretation and translation services, in particular information on the charge, legal counsel and the right to be brought before a judge immediately after arrest. parliament has also been able to enforce an extension of the specific rights which the suspect is to be taught. we have successfully incorporated the right to medical care, to contact with relatives and to refuse to give evidence into the directive. no one knows in advance how long a suspect will be held in custody, deprived of his liberty. it is therefore important to be informed of your rights at an early stage and to have access to incriminating and exculpatory evidence. the accused must not become the object of the criminal proceedings but must be able to participate actively in the proceedings. the member states must now adopt and implement the directive as quickly as possible. in conclusion, i would like to thank the services of parliament and the commission, and i would like to thank in particular the shadow rapporteurs who have made this report possible with perseverance and really excellent cooperation. it is now important that the council and the commission, together with the european parliament, conclude swiftly the follow-up to this directive, thereby establishing uniform standards and fair procedures across the eu.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. as rapporteur for the legal affairs committee, i should also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the libe committee - i believe we have had a really good cooperation here in the european parliament, where we also had the opportunity as the legal affairs committee to put our proposals to the vote - and of course also my colleagues from the other groups in the libe committee. i would also like to congratulate the commissioner for justice and fundamental rights on the fact that a new stage has now been reached in this roadmap to establish common standards in criminal proceedings. i think we can agree that this is a very important step towards these common standards. it is an important step for the citizens, because only informed citizens, only citizens who know their rights, can exercise those rights. i am therefore very much looking forward to seeing what rights we can enjoy as european citizens in the future. i am therefore already looking ahead and would like to see the further steps of the procedure, such as the right of access to a lawyer, completed as soon as possible, where i will also be present as rapporteur for the legal affairs committee and as shadow rapporteur in the libe committee. i think this is extremely important. i would also like to ask the member states once again to abandon their resistance to individual regulations and to embark on a common approach to the creation of these standards. this is enormously important. we in parliament are ready to do so.
mr president, commissioner reding, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to say that i very much welcome the outcome of birgit sippel's work, together with the rapporteurs. the proposal successfully establishes common minimum standards for the right to information and in criminal proceedings within the european union. i think that the commission has made a very good proposal from the outset. i would therefore like to express my particular congratulations to commissioner reding. i have always been particularly concerned in this procedure that the rights of the suspect - particularly the right to remain silent - should not have adverse consequences, as was actually provided for in the laws of individual member states. that is guaranteed today. i'm glad you did, too. during the discussions on this report, it became apparent that in many member states there is no legal obligation to inform a suspect of his right to legal aid, that in only ten member states a suspect was informed of his rights in the form of a written notice and that in three member states there was no possibility of access to the files at all. if we look at france and the practice there with regard to the garde à vue, where the lawyer does not have the opportunity to intervene during the first period of detention, we see that we have to make some adjustments at european level and we should do so in the near future. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their legal systems in a way that is compatible with the european union's legal order. without an adequate level of control, we cannot move forward with measures such as the european investigation order. we have taken a big step in the right direction with this report. i congratulate all those involved.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i think mrs reding has already said it, and the debate today has once again underlined what the unanimous decision in the libe committee has made clear, namely that strengthening procedural rights is a common concern of the political groups and, in a sense, of the member states. i therefore hope - and i am very confident - that we will be able to obtain a good proposal from the commission together on the next measure, the right of access to a lawyer, to improve this proposal further and then, in the debate with the council, to achieve a very good directive. i wish the rapporteur, mrs antonescu, well in this respect and i believe she can count on the support of this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank mr sturdy very much for his report, which has given a very good overview of all the difficulties we still have in trade. i would like to draw attention to a subject which concerns me particularly. we had a debate in the european parliament at the mini-plenary in brussels before the us-eu summit and an extra debate on the buy american clause in the american jobs act, which is currently being debated in the us congress. it was a bit awkward because the commissioner responsible could not be there and then, right in the middle of the debate, the commission representative had to be replaced. we have already expressed our concern in the debate that the commission is not getting the substance of our debate. i was very surprised when the commission representatives told us at the foreign trade committee meeting last week that the commission had not even raised this issue. i think this is a wonderful example of a very bad trade barrier. i would be very grateful to you, commissioner, if you could raise this matter again in the commission, and we are doing our utmost to ensure that the commission takes parliament's demands seriously.
president of the european council. − mr president, dear colleagues, i want to report to you today on the main outcomes of last week’s european council. as you know, the main focus was on the future of the eurozone. it is a long route. restoring confidence is more difficult than most of us expected. it has taken huge efforts to remedy the weak infrastructure provided by the maastricht treaty and to correct the policies of the past. at the meeting there was, on the one hand, a remarkable degree of consensus on the content and objectives. this agreement on the substance was moreover supported not only by the eurozone members but also by the future eurozone members. on the other hand, there was more discussion on the legal instruments necessary. allow me to start with the former, lest it be overlooked because of controversy about the latter. first, for the short term, we agreed on immediate action to help overcome the current difficulties. we are increasing our financial resources to address the crisis we face. the euro area and other member states will aim to make available additional resources of up to eur 200 billion to the international monetary fund. the leverage of the european financial stability facility will be rapidly deployed at the european central bank, and the european central bank will act as its agent in market operations. the entry into force of the european stability mechanism rescue fund will be accelerated so that it can start in july 2012. in march we will review the overall adequacy of the efsf/esm ceiling of eur 500 billion. as regards private sector involvement, the major change to our doctrine that we decided on 21 july will now be translated into the esm treaty. or, to put it more bluntly, our first approach to psi, which had a very negative impact on the debt markets, is now officially over. from now on we will strictly adhere to the imf principles and practices. second, as regards the medium and longer term, we agreed on a new fiscal compact with new fiscal rules. member states will transpose it into their national legislation at constitutional or equivalent level. our rules on excessive deficit procedure will become more automatic for the euro area members and key elements of this new approach are the following: first, building on the stability and growth pact, budgets must be balanced in structural terms – that is, over the economic cycle; second, that rule must be defined at treaty level and incorporated into national rules; third, automatic adjustment mechanisms to ensure correction in case of deviation must be defined by the member states on the basis of principles proposed by the commission; four, bringing revised qmv to decide on commission proposals at the very beginning of the excessive deficit procedure so that this will apply throughout the procedure. besides that, as agreed in october, member states under an excessive deficit procedure will have to submit their draft budgetary plans before adoption to the commission. as i said, there was a broad agreement on the substance. as regards the form, everybody agreed that these new commitments should be made binding, but there were different views as to how this could be done. as you know, i put on the table an interim report on strengthening economic and monetary union, which evaluated what we have done so far, identified weaknesses and suggested various ways in which these vulnerabilities could be addressed. these ways ranged from decisions that can be taken in the context of the existing treaties, to a possible revision of protocol 12 by means of a decision of the european council, to fully-fledged treaty changes by means of either the simplified or the ordinary revision procedure. some of the decisions that can be taken on the basis of the existing treaties were agreed. however, the possibility of revising protocol 12 and the option of amending the treaties both require unanimity. it became clear in the course of the meeting that such unanimity was not forthcoming. faced with this fact – and i feel no need to be controversial myself on this – there was no alternative but to go down the route of a separate treaty among the 17 eurozone members, though open to others. indeed almost all of the other members, even those with a derogation on joining the euro, have now announced that they will join in this process, subject to consulting their parliaments. it was a moment of responsibility and solidarity. the european interest was at stake and the european interest has to be our only criterion. an intergovernmental treaty was not my first preference, nor that of most member states. however, it will make the fiscal compact binding. it must be negotiated as a matter of urgency. it will not be easy, also legally speaking. i count on everybody to be constructive, bearing in mind what is at stake. our aim is to strengthen both fiscal discipline and economic coordination, going beyond what we have already achieved in the ‘six-pack’. this will not be the first time that more engaged member states have proceeded by agreement among themselves, without waiting for all to join the new initiative. it was the case with schengen, with police cooperation and in terms of implementing the launch of the euro itself. importantly, we agreed that the european parliament will be associated in this process. as regards the calendar, rather rapidly, following consultations with national parliaments, we should know the number of participating states. i am optimistic because i know it is going to be very close to 27. in fact, 26 leaders indicated their interest in this effort. they recognise that the euro is a common good. then, in early march at the latest, the ‘fiscal compact’ treaty will be signed. the objective remains to incorporate these provisions into the eu treaties as soon as possible. in the meantime, we must ensure that the new procedures remain as closely embedded in the union’s structure as possible. there is indeed considerable leeway to do so. besides this, the existing draft of last year’s esm treaty will be amended in the coming days. it will integrate yesterday’s important decision on changing our approach to private sector involvement and our ideas on softening the unanimity rule. the aim is for the esm treaty to be ratified by mid-2012. in march, i will report to the european council on deepening fiscal integration, as already indicated in the interim report i drew up in close cooperation with the president of the european commission and the president of the euro group. finally, we called on the european parliament and the council, under the ordinary legislative procedure, rapidly to examine the commission’s proposals of 23 november so that they can be in force in time for the next budget cycle. the european council discussed other issues that are also of importance, even if they were overshadowed by the economic governance issues. on enlargement, following the consent of the european parliament, we signed the accession treaty with croatia, thus paving the way for croatia to become the 28th member state of the union. we reconfirmed the european perspective of the western balkans, making clear that our door will not close behind croatia. in particular, the european council identified clear objectives and a clear timeframe for serbia and for montenegro. both countries have made remarkable progress on their way to the european union. serbia has taken bold steps to bring europe’s most wanted war criminals to international justice. the belgrade-pristina dialogue has brought about initial results and implementation of those agreements is moving forward. we now expect serbia to build on that dialogue and to improve relations with pristina with the aim of the council granting serbia the status of candidate country in february next year, to be confirmed by the european council at the beginning of march 2012. montenegro received candidate status a year ago and has undertaken many domestic reforms, which now need to be fully implemented. we will continue to assess montenegro’s progress, especially in the area of the rule of law, and aim to open the accession negotiations in june 2012. coming back to the eurozone, confidence that has gone cannot be restored overnight. it is a long way, but this european council is an important building block on this way. (applause)
president of the commission. − mr president, the commission’s fundamental point of departure for last week’s european council was crystal clear: the european union needed to give a comprehensive response to the current crisis, making a firm commitment to the euro and to the irreversibility of our currency. it is indispensable to have more discipline, structural reforms for more investment, more convergence, and credible mechanisms of solidarity. all these elements belong together. over the past 18 months we have achieved some progress within the european union as a whole, at 27, on the basis of the existing treaties, with the european union institutions taking the decisions. as a result, we now have a european strategy for growth and employment: europe 2020. we have a substantially reinforced stability and growth pact, with the ‘six-pack’, which will come into force today and will apply to all 27 member states. we have the european semester, through which we coordinate our fiscal and macroeconomic policies and implement our agenda for growth on an annual basis. we also have the new macroeconomic imbalances procedure. there is also the euro plus pact. there are two brand new commission proposals, made on 23 november, under article 136, on further strengthening fiscal discipline, which i hope will be adopted in a fast-track procedure through an early first reading agreement. we also have our assistance and adjustment programmes, including those for three euro area member states. there is the european central bank playing its role, there is the european financial stability facility (efsf), and there will be the european stability mechanism (esm). the main purpose of this european council was to show our joint determination to tackle persisting market tensions by consolidating these achievements and reinforcing them even further. indeed, during thursday night an agreement was reached to create a genuine ‘fiscal stability union’, a new ‘fiscal compact’. on substance, this agreement was ambitious, and it was unanimous. unfortunately it was not unanimous on the form, with one member state unable to join. i will come back to both aspects – substance and form – in a moment. let me first highlight a number of important conclusions of the summit which match the position that the commission has taken for some time. i welcome, first of all, the fact that member states have agreed to advance to july 2012 the entry into force of the permanent european stability mechanism. as you know, i had already suggested precisely this in september during the state of the union debate before this house. i also welcome the fact that member states have now finally agreed to deal properly with the involvement of the private sector, with the esm applying the same principles as the imf. the commission has always warned of the possible negative effects of psi on market confidence. the decision now taken should reassure investors. an agreement also emerged that the esm should not, as was initially planned, be subject to the rule of unanimity. decisions will now be taken by reinforced qualified majority. here again, i had proposed this already for the efsf, but without success. so i am happy to see that now, for the esm, things are going in the right direction. more immediately, leveraging of the efsf will be deployed very rapidly, with the ecb acting as its agent in the efsf market operations. i hope that member states will confirm their commitment to provide the imf with additional resources of up to eur 200 billion within the coming days. we now need to go further. the spring european council in march will discuss how to further deepen fiscal integration of the euro area on the basis of a report by the president of the european council, together with the president of the commission and the president of the euro group. the commission’s green paper on european stability bonds of 23 november will feed into this debate. as you know, this is very controversial for some governments. nevertheless, i was encouraged to see support for our assessment that stability bonds can make an important contribution in the future to completing a fiscal stability union and creating a stronger liquid bonds market in europe. we also need to go further on growth, on investment, and on measures to promote jobs. fiscal discipline is of course key, but – let us be frank about this – we cannot build our economic union just on discipline and sanctions. we also need a europe of growth and of jobs. a europe of responsibility, certainly, but also a europe of solidarity. let me now move on to the key elements of the new fiscal compact. first of all, it includes a commitment to ensure that, as a general rule, national budgets will be balanced at least, and that such balance is defined as the annual structural deficit not exceeding 0.5% of gdp. to give this national debt brake or ‘golden rule’ maximum legal effect, member states commit to enshrining it at constitutional or equivalent level. the court of justice will have competence to review proper transposition of this commitment. this is a sound foundation for sustainable medium- to long-term fiscal policies and a strong signal to the markets that european governments are serious about their new ‘stability culture’. secondly, the excessive deficit procedure under article 126 of the treaty, which, as you know, applies to all 27 member states, will apply in a stricter way for the euro area member states. in future, the euro area member states will commit to accepting true automaticity for triggering the deficit procedure from the moment when a member state breaches its commitment to reduce deficits. the same automaticity will apply throughout the whole procedure for any ensuing steps proposed by the commission, including the preventive arm. only a qualified majority against the commission proposal would be able to stop the process. the new commitment will add to the ‘six-pack’ automaticity for which this house fought so hard. it will put the commission at the heart of ensuring fiscal discipline, in line with your position. we will accept this increased responsibility knowing that its democratic legitimacy derives from this house and that it is here that we will be held accountable for our objectiveness and our resolve. all in all, the agreement on substance at this summit is quite impressive. but frankly, we cannot say the same on form. the reason why it took until 5 a.m. on friday morning to reach this agreement was not the substance, but was mainly the form. the debate was on whether this should happen through a revision of the european union treaties, involving all 27 member states and all the european union institutions, or should it be outside this framework, with a new treaty? as you know, in the interim report presented to the heads of state or government, the president of the european council, together with the president of the euro group and myself, tabled proposals in line with a treaty revision involving all 27 member states and all the european institutions. personally, i made every possible effort to agree this fiscal compact fully within the current treaties. this approach required that all 27 member states played their part. as you know, one member state was opposed to amending the lisbon treaty. the united kingdom, in exchange for giving its agreement, asked for a specific protocol on financial services which, as presented, was a risk to the integrity of the internal market. this made compromise impossible. all the other heads of state or government were left with the choice between paying this price or moving ahead without the uk’s participation and accepting an international agreement among themselves. in search of compromise, i tabled a clause providing, in the european union treaties, that any measures adopted by the council and applying to the euro area only must not undermine the internal market, including in financial services, nor constitute discrimination between the euro area member states and the others. unfortunately this compromise proved impossible and so it was not possible to have a solution that could allow all 27 member states to agree in the framework of the current treaties. on a more positive note, i must also say that i was encouraged by the resolve of almost all the member states to have more, not less, integration, to make more, and not less, use of the community method and the european institutions, and to work for more, and not less, coherence. most member states made it clear that they do not want to circumvent the community method and the european institutions. they do not want to diminish the executive role of the commission nor the prerogatives of this parliament. the agreement will not replace union institutions and procedures but will, on the contrary, build on them. and at my request, they have made a clear commitment to integrating the agreement fully into european union law as soon as possible. this will need to be strongly reflected in the legal text now. the commission will do all it can so that this agreement is legally safe and institutionally acceptable. the commission will contribute to these negotiations as guardian of the european union treaties and of our institutional model. let me be clear: the commission will not accept any intergovernmental treaty that would be in conflict with union law. i will take a direct interest in this question and i am sure parliament will do so as well. in fact, i expect that parliament will also be associated with these negotiations. so, you may ask, how can we square the circle concretely? how can we progress by way of an international agreement, without eroding the community method? this point will require our utmost attention and our joint scrutiny over the next days and weeks. in my view, the best way of doing it is to follow a basic principle: the agreement should contain stronger national commitments, but the european union institutions should act exclusively on the basis of the european union treaties. thus, we will apply the european union’s monitoring and correction system as reinforced by the ‘six-pack’, and there will be no other parallel or competing structures. the commission, acting pursuant to the european union treaties, will monitor how member states have been living up to their additional commitments made in this agreement. i intend to make full use of article 136, by proposing to this house all the legislation that will be needed to make this construction work, to tie this fiscal compact back to european union law and to buttress it with the democratic legitimacy of this parliament. fortunately we have not seen a split of the european union between the 17 and the other ten. this was the greatest risk ahead of the summit. this is not an agreement at 17 plus, but an agreement at 27 minus. last week, most heads of state or government of the member states showed their readiness to move ahead with european integration, towards a fiscal stability union. they showed that they want more europe, not less. of course, this was not the only subject at the european council: some other important issues were also discussed last week, such as the annual growth survey, enlargement and energy. i will come back to these tomorrow when we will assess the results of the european union’s work during the polish presidency of the council. at this moment, i just want to highlight the historic agreement that was signed for croatia to join our union. it is indeed very important that member states agreed on a fiscal compact, but let me say that this is not enough. the problems in the euro area are not only fiscal but also financial, and, above all, problems related to lack of competitiveness. we need to restore growth and promote employment. the commitment to fiscal discipline is indispensable for europe, but the reality is that structural reforms for competitiveness and growth-enhancing measures are the key to restoring not only the confidence of investors but also, above all, the confidence of our citizens. this is why i insist on the need to pursue the comprehensive approach that the commission has presented in our road map for stability and growth. i hope parliament and the member states will support this line and work together for the deepening of the internal market, including the rapid implementation of existing commitments on services, energy, innovation, the digital agenda and free trade agreements, and for swift adoption of pending proposals to enhance growth, such as support for smes, better regulation, tax initiatives, fast-tracking proposals, especially those that extend the benefits of the single market, and last but not least, targeted investment at european union level, including through project bonds. yes, we need investment at european level, and that is why our mff proposal – and for instance the connecting europe facility addressing the issue of the missing links in networks – is so relevant for europe’s growth and employment prospects. finally, i wish to highlight that, even if today attention is turned elsewhere, green growth remains key to employment in europe. this is why i welcome the conclusions from durban, with all major emitters agreeing for the first time to have a new comprehensive and binding legal instrument which will include limits on co2 emissions. this was only possible because of the leadership from the european union: i am very proud of the role of the commission in this matter. this shows that, with consistence and coherent efforts, europe is able to put its mark on global agreements. the same kind of coherence and persistence will now be needed for implementation of the growth agenda for the european union. this is exactly what our citizens expect from us: a europe of responsibility, yes, but also a europe of solidarity; a europe of stability, yes, but also a europe of growth and employment. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we have heard the council's statements and the council's conclusions from mr van rompuy and also from mr barroso. now let's talk about how it really went. the announcement that this council will bring stability to the markets is a false alarm. the reaction of the so-called markets in recent days shows no stability. the role of the european central bank a highly debated topic before this council no answer. a pact for growth, jobs and stability in europe through employment of people no word. the financing of the crisis countries, which will have to place several hundred billion euros on the markets in the first three months of next year and which today have spreads of over 7%, is a response to this failure to indicate. what about the esf? why is he preferred? what happens until it comes into force and he gets a banking license? no answer, wrong number! you call this a stability union? the presentation of the behaviour of the united kingdom. we have been very careful not to start a debate on the treaties because it was clear to everyone that if they started the debate on the treaties they would be forced to accept the extortionist approach of agreeing to a treaty reform only if there were a price to pay. and what prices did the british prime minister ask for? an opt-out from the working time directive absolutely clear and no further regulation of the financial markets. that's two awards. and now i want to say: the fact that the other 26 countries were not prepared to pay these prices is a good sign. you cannot be blackmailed into thinking that those -- and these are the financial markets, the speculators sitting in the city of london -- who have driven us into the deepest financial market crisis, are not getting further regulation. this is unacceptable. (applause from the centre) i would have expected you, mr van rompuy, to say something about the european parliament. the involvement of the european parliament was the only thing you said here. i expected a little more. i therefore ask you to answer two specific questions. firstly, is it true that you agreed in the council to set up a euro++ group of the 17 euro countries plus the countries that want to join, a working group under your chairmanship plus the european parliament? if it's not, you can say so. if so, i ask you, why don't you say so? because, mr president of the commission, you want to have a fast track for your proposals of 23 november. you can have it, but i tell you, there is only one condition on which this parliament can take up this legislation with you, and that is that it is guaranteed that in all the next steps the european parliament will be the third partner at the table alongside the council and the commission. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. (applause from the centre) we hear institutional debates all the time. we are constantly hearing about how to use auxiliary structures to get out of the misery into which we have plunged ourselves by contract. and every time - and i have to say this once again, also to you, mr barroso - we hear that the confidence of the markets must be regained. whoever these markets are, i prefer to speak of the speculators, the banks, the insurance companies, the big fund investors, whose interest is nothing but to maximize their capital, rather than of the markets. we have to win back their trust? i'm not going to. how about we discuss how to win back the trust of the people of europe in the european union? (applause from the centre) the parliamentary representation of the citizens of europe must ensure that. i would therefore like to say again in conclusion that we as the european parliament will be well advised - and i think our colleagues will agree with me - if, while we sit with the other institutions in mr van rompuy's working group until march, we as parliament put forward our own alternative proposals on how to bring stability to the european union, above all by promoting growth, employment and thus social security for the people of europe. there will be no market-based democracy. what we need is a market under the rules of democracy. and these rules must be drawn up and adopted here in the european parliament! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it's nice to have something to laugh about in a crisis. when i watched the brussels summit last friday - in the classic role of the european parliament, which we should have in the future - i had the impression that, in the light of the development of the crisis, this summit had nothing whatsoever to do with the crisis as it is at the moment. greece after years of conflict an unsolved case and now several old european countries threatened with state bankruptcy and, according to the oecd, the european union on the verge of recession or perhaps already on the way to it. then, watching this summit, i can only say that i have observed a peak of extreme denial. and by that, i don't just mean david cameron. i liked the way he was pushed into the corner, and so did everyone else. because you can see this british strategy of self-interest and protection for the city - which martin schulz rightly described as the root of all evil - that we can't be bothered with anymore. but even as cameron stood in the corner of his own choosing, the question remained: what now? and then the denial continued. i have seen a denial of reality, and at the heart of this denial of reality is, in my view, a narrow and irresponsible analysis of the crisis by angela merkel. angela merkel claims that the public debt is the problem - the single and central problem that has brought us into this crisis. and that's why their only answer is that austerity is the way out of the crisis. i cannot stand it any longer, because the situation we are in today is the result of this one-sided austerity mentality which the germans have imposed on the whole of the european union. what we expected was a signal of resilient european solidarity. contrary to the advice of the german economists, not a word has been said about a debt-repayment fund. the banking licence for the efsf has not been discussed. you can't do that! because we - and the poles have been talking about this during their presidency of the council - have to put ourselves in a position to guarantee central european government bonds. the banking licence for the efsf would be the simple and clear way to do that. but he refused. it also refuses to take action against the recession. as often as i hear your song, mr barroso, about sustainable development in the european union - and i've heard it since the days of the lisbon strategy - i ask myself: where and how is this going to happen? that was not an issue at this summit. i have seen one defeat of mrs merkel: the participation of creditors. we can argue about that, but it no longer exists, despite mrs merkel's efforts. what remains open to me, if there is no creditor participation, is the whole question of justice. it is not possible that we should shoulder the burdens of the crisis together in public and that those who earned with our debts in the crisis, before the crisis, and whose assets are actually our debts, should emerge from this crisis completely uninvolved. (applause from the centre) how the wealthy will be involved in the future, when there is no creditor participation, is a big issue. the summit was very short. it was a summit of denial of reality and a summit of denial of democracy. we have not received any answers to the urgent needs of the crisis, and we have received a message against european democracy. i find it intolerable that in the midst of the crisis we are being offered a patchwork of this kind, such as this intergovernmental stability treaty, which is to be placed alongside the european treaties, whatever that may mean. and i am glad that the group chairmen of this parliament decided yesterday that we will table a resolution in january, in which we will formulate the answers to the crisis that can be given now and without any treaty changes. i would say that the economic and solidarity union which i and my group want will not be possible without a change in the treaty. but all the things i have mentioned, which must now be done in response to the crisis, can be done without any change to the treaty!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eu summit was supposed to bring a breakthrough in solving the international financial crisis. the fact that this has not been achieved is beyond doubt, because too much has been saved, too much has been put on the one hand to curb debt and budgetary control. even this requires a lot of concrete design. he may have given you a respite, but that's all he's got. the long-cherished confidence of the markets cannot be regained by the german-style electrocution of austerity policies. the causes of the financial crisis are manifold, the crucial one being the lack of control of the unfettered financial markets by independent bodies and above all by politics. the eu's 27 leaders were again unwilling or unable to act. the increase in the financial impact of the instruments to combat speculation by giving priority to the esm with eur 500 billion for one year, by the parallel continuation of the efsf and the greater involvement of the imf with eur 200 billion, only guarantees the banks repayment of their loans with rich interest gains. the governments of the eurozone countries are trying to play along in the financial markets, but they are forgetting that they are the ones with the short hand. the failure of the attempt to raise the bailout funds is a testament to the power and impotence of politics. the main obstacle to the regulation of international financial markets within the eu has become self-imposed isolation. i hope that this will now be tackled with determination, at least within the eurozone and the new eu member states. the first step is to implement the international transaction tax quickly. the next step is to ban the most dangerous new financial products. this also applies to the operation of shadow banks. the european union must and can lead by example in this area. if eu banks were to evade regulation in other parts of the world, they would face the threat of no government bailout in the event of a crisis. finally, their activities may be placed under state supervision or they may be nationalised themselves. that would be the appropriate response to a systemic crisis. the consequences of the international crisis that has been ongoing since 2008 are already unbearable for the vast majority of citizens. the european parliament has already been given a mandate to make a statement on the situation in the community, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter. but citizens in all eu countries are affected by excessive austerity. it is the culmination of the neoliberal policy of liberalization and privatization, of the redistribution of wealth from the bottom up. this policy of the last 15 years has brought us into crisis and must therefore be stopped and reversed. the common good and the welfare state can only be achieved by curbing the blind forces of the market. the austerity measures will not stimulate growth or bring an end to the crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. stricter rules will strengthen the credibility of the euro countries. i would like to give the president of the commission and the president of the council their full support. the fact that balanced budgets are in this, mrs harms, is not an austerity policy and is nothing new. this is already in the maastricht treaty, but it has not been respected. secondly, britain must decide. mr. farage has left again. mr cameron has indeed isolated himself, and he is not and will not be a maggie thatcher. he's completely miscalculated. the single market is important, as is everyone else. but if you say you want a veto, then the rules of the lisbon treaty are being overridden. the lisbon treaty itself said: 'we shall decide by qualified majority' in the council and in parliament. it is not new what mr farage is asking here, but it is the respect of the existing treaty. the future eu treaty strengthens the euro area, but there must be no parallel structures. this is why new rules are needed, but we also believe that they will have to be incorporated into the lisbon treaty sooner or later. for the parliament, mr van rompuy and mr barroso, observer status is not enough. we do not want to be treated as observers, but we want to be involved in these changes to the treaties, in these changes to the rules. what i have noticed is that although mr schulz has spoken of the financial market, neither mr schulz nor mr verhofstadt have said anything about the content of the agreement. i read in the press today that the french presidential candidate, hollande, is questioning everything. he wants the ecb, he wants eurobonds, he wants a bailout fund, he doesn't want a debt brake. i would like to hear the socialist leader say what he would do if the elections were different and his party friend became president. it's all been left open. it's important that we participate, but it's also important that we share the content. and we are doing it!
mr president, i am a little surprised. martin schulz is celebrating this morning on deutschlandfunk the vote on the six-pack as the moment in which this european parliament has demonstrated its importance - i agree with him fully on this - but he is not saying that the left in this house voted against the six-pack and is now also opposing the summit results, which provide for balanced budgets and effective penalties. it doesn't add up. i'm sorry about that. we have a debt union! we must have balanced budgets! we need sensible mechanisms to get there. the summit has decided that. the results are, on the whole, very good for moving from debt union to stability union. but on one point i agree with him and the other colleagues: it will be an intergovernmental agreement. the danger of a democratic deficit and a lack of acceptance by the citizens is very real. it is therefore very important that the parliaments - both this house and the national parliaments - are closely involved in this process. the third point, and this is an important one for me, mr barroso, is that it is of course important that what is decided in this fiscal compact is transposed into the treaties. we need the agreement of the united kingdom to do this. so it may be that we are forced to do the opposite, that we may see this fiscal compact as the re-establishment of a european union, closer integration, the start of a new project. but i want to make one thing clear: we want the british to be involved. my dear joseph daul, where the liberals are in power, public finances are largely in order. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment. the liberals are in government. where the epp rules without a liberal corrective, as in italy, greece or portugal, for example, the situation is a little different. the liberal position is very clear on this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: the commission is not first of all, i am very pleased to note that mrs wortmann-kool listens to deutschlandfunk in the morning. that's good! secondly, mr lambsdorff, would you be so kind as to clarify your statement? i said this morning on german radio, in reference to the fact that the european parliament has nothing to say, that we have adopted the legislation we have been talking about all along and that the council has been talking about. is that right? that was my statement. i have not made a statement about majorities or minorities, but about an institutional situation. now, would you mind telling me why you're criticizing me for that?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not corinne wortmann-kool i praise at every appropriate and inappropriate opportunity. the institutional point is unquestionable. of course, this was a great moment for the european parliament. but we are not just discussing institutional questions here today, we are discussing how to deal with the euro crisis, we are discussing the way to a stability union. (interruption by martin schulz) that is an important point. i am surprised at the strong opposition of the entire left in this house to the outcome of this summit, including mr steinmeier, who calls the whole thing a fiasco. i can't understand this at all. it is in our common interest that we have balanced budgets in the euro area member states and monitor this!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. what is the summit result worth? keyword automatic sanctions: gentlemen, please explain what happens if a country becomes over 3% indebted in the future, if you want to apply automatic sanctions, but the country says article 126 applies, the current treaty of the european union applies. what happens then? then the star hour, of which alexander count lambsdorff spoke here, will be unenchanted as a shooting star. it is a fake that is not worth the paper it is written on because it does not change the real situation. so, legally, what did you do? economic: research institutes say that perhaps in the next two years four out of seventeen will be able to meet this structural deficit target that you have set. maybe by 2015. but only if we can avoid the recession. if we take your course now - without the growth initiative - we will be going into the middle of the recession. it is an illusion to believe that these objectives can be achieved without additional growth programmes! how are we gonna do that? what did you decide? they cannot get out of this self-inflicted mess without the european parliament! give yourself a chance, sit down at the table with this european parliament, and you will have another chance. otherwise, you've played your last card. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i too very much welcome this directive because it is a step in the right direction, because it also means legal certainty in general, and above all legal certainty for victims who sometimes leave their country to seek protection elsewhere. the same protection rules must simply apply there as in the country of origin. i also find it interesting that this proposal is based on a joint initiative by 12 member states. for the first time, the ordinary legislative procedure is based on the lisbon treaty and is an initiative of the member states. we have also shown that this instrument works. i also hope that we will continue this legal harmonization and that we will eventually be able to extend this directive to the european union as a whole - that is, to the european union of 27 member states.
i have to say, madam president, although it may seem a marginal problem at first glance, it is another step in the right direction. what's the matter? fisheries must be environmentally friendly and sustainable! this can be achieved by various measures: quotas, fishing bans or technical measures. a technical measure is to avoid unnecessary by-catches when the fish are caught. the agreement on a uniform size of fishing nets is a good step in the right direction, and others still have to follow. i simply do not give up hope that we will also succeed in finding a solution for global fisheries, so that our next generations can enjoy not only fishing but also eating fish.
in writing. - i am very pleased that we have succeeded in relieving our smes of unnecessary administrative burdens. in future, for example, craft or butcher shops will only have to submit an abridged balance sheet, which will no longer have to be published. this saves these companies not only valuable time but also a lot of money which can now be used for investment. the european parliament must and will continue to be a key concern of the european parliament in the area of de-bureaucratization. we should only regulate and control what is absolutely necessary. all other regulations which are unnecessary and superfluous must be abolished. this is in the interests of our citizens, our economy and the administrations of the member states.
in writing. − due to the tight budgetary situation in some european countries, they are no longer able to contribute their own national share to the community fund for rural development. the commission is also proposing to increase the union's co-financing rates to ensure that european support for rural areas is not lost to these countries. i welcome this step, because it will make more funds available to rural areas and will give new impetus. i also think it is an expression of european solidarity to help countries to use the funds at their disposal.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank mr lisek and the subcommittee on security for the good preparatory work they have done on this report. it is clear that for us foreign policy always means using preventive measures to make military unnecessary. this is the starting point for the politics we are pursuing. but to secure peace, to maintain peace and to create peace, military is necessary. and if military is necessary, we should use it wisely and make the best use of our instruments. the report rightly makes it clear that we are not using resources responsibly. in times of financial strain, we must ensure that we create synergies that can only be achieved at european level. it is therefore right that we should call for a white paper which defines the objectives and interests of the european union on the one hand and links the existing means and resources to them on the other, and which also makes it possible for us to do much more together, for example in the field of procurement, research and development, than if each of us developed and bought our own cartridges. the question of the european defence agency in particular is crucial to progress in this area. i also think that we should go further in this direction in the use of multinational associations, which we have increasingly in the european union, and also examine the operational capacity and also the legal problems that exist with the operational capacity. i think that the joint effort to exploit this is also to protect the soldiers. when i see how everyone in afghanistan is still entering with different reservations and there is no sensible cooperation here, how berlin plus cannot be implemented with a sensible cooperation from nato and the possibilities of civilian crisis management of the european union, then there is a lot of work to be done that should be achieved in the interests of our people, the people who want to stand up for freedom, as well as for our soldiers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i should like to begin by thanking mr lisek for a good report which, as elmar brok has already said, seeks to take advantage of the fact that money is running out in all national budgets and that the waste of money on armaments cannot simply continue as before. the opportunity offered by the concept of pooling and sharing is seized by mr lisek. i am glad that he is still trying, very politely, to put a little more pressure on the member states with some small amendments. if that were the main point, my group would vote for this report tomorrow. but there are two points which are on the negative side. the first is that, in view of the financial shortages in the member states, there is now an attempt to cannibalize the eu budget for military expenditure. this can't be right. it is not right to fund military research now under horizon 2020 or under fp7 from the eu budget. it is not right to finance the defence college through the eu or to open up structural funds for the defence industry or to finance a military erasmus from our budget. this distracts from the real task of ensuring that efficiency and economy are brought together. thirdly, i find this particularly remarkable because the initiative is being taken by liberal members who are usually so competitive. the report attempts to undermine the achievements we have made in the defence package in terms of transparency and competition in defence procurement, under the pleasantly sounding headline that we must secure jobs. all i can ask is that you don't give in to that. we are making requests for individual harmonization of the relevant paragraphs. this should not be included in this report because it is structurally conservative, it encourages inefficiency and it wastes money.
question for the commissioner: if you are so vehemently against the concept of pooling and sharing, how do you reconcile that with the fact that nato has exactly the same concept of rationalizing capabilities, just under a different name?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the debate today takes place against the backdrop of the economic and financial crisis, which has resulted in people losing their livelihoods, their rights and their democracy, and in the face of the fact that thousands of people, especially children, are dying of hunger. if we are to save money in europe, we must save money on defence. because defence means defence against territorial aggression, and it's nice to be able to say, yes, we can save money. but even if i accept the prevailing logic here, that is to say, that there is a very high need for defence, it seems that under the guise of cost pressure, a higher level of armaments is to be achieved and the armaments industry is to be given better and more stable earning opportunities. i think the scenario of a threatened defense capability is being exaggerated. i would also like to point out that it is not true that cuts in defence spending lead to more unemployment. that's just not true. but high defense spending doesn't just consume vast sums needed elsewhere. the proposals in mr lisek's report also represent a danger to democracy, for example through the athena mechanism, which cannot be democratically controlled, or the mixing of civil and military. we shall vote against this report. and we the united european left have tabled a minority view which includes our call for radical disarmament and a purely civilian eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should also like to begin by thanking mr lisek for his really excellent report, which puts the finger on the wound wherever there are shortcomings and shows where we can achieve more together. the high commissioner has rightly said that the common security and defence policy can only be as good as we allow it to be. she's right. i would have liked to have seen more in the council conclusions of 1 december. for example, in the area of planning and leadership. we were able to agree that the operations centre in brussels could be used on an ad hoc basis, not systematically or permanently. i think that is regrettable. i also wonder how it is possible that the council's conclusions on the combating forces are accepted, but that the member states are unable to provide two combating forces in the first half of 2012. what's the reason? how do you intend to prevent that from happening in the future? the pooling and sharing initiative has also been mentioned many times. i think it is excellent and not only because of the lack of funds, but because it would actually bring us closer together. but i wonder to what extent the gent initiative and the pooling and sharing initiative have actually led to closing the skills gaps identified in the 2010 target. i also wonder when we will finally activate the permanent structured cooperation in this context, as called for in the letter of the weimar triangle plus, or the five, of september 2011. what steps is the foreign service taking to support the activation of permanent structured cooperation?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. before i speak on the subject, i would like to welcome the presence in the chamber of our former colleague and vice-president, stavros lambrinidis. he's in the back, making calls. we're glad he's here. we're glad he came. he can't hear that now because he doesn't understand german. but that's okay. when i hold events in my constituency, i always ask my constituents: who has more soldiers, the european union or the united states of america? the answer is regularly wrong. the european member states have 2 million soldiers under arms, the americans have 1.4 million. we are armed to the teeth, but we spend on these soldiers only a third of what the americans spend on their soldiers. this is obvious nonsense. pooling and sharing is therefore absolutely sensible. the only thing that is clear is that we cannot leave this to the military alone, but we must accompany the whole thing politically. in this respect, this report is a major contribution to the political debate. i thank my colleague lisek. i would like to make a critical point here, however, and that is the point about offsets. the opinion expressed in this report cannot replace the legally binding opinion we have written in the directive on the acquisition of arms in the european union. i have here the european commission's guidelines on how to deal with offsets. it is crucial that we stick to it. whether they are civil or military, direct or indirect, they are always market distortive and are only allowed under article 346 in very narrow exceptions. i think it is important that we should emphasize this again, and stick to it and vote accordingly. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not knowing the quality of our interpreters and how excellent they are, it couldn't have been the interpretation, but it must have been you, dear geoffrey. i have made it quite clear that the member states have two million soldiers and that we in europe spend on them a third of what the americans spend. it doesn't make sense, obviously. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that this debate is an important one and i thank mr lisek for his excellent report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to speak to the communication on the human rights review which was adopted on monday. the aim is to improve the human rights and democratisation policy of the eu's external policy. this is a very important step which we welcome. it is necessary to work seriously and in depth on what we can do, and i would like to quote you, lady ashton, as you summed it up very well yesterday in the committee on foreign affairs: 'how to do human rights better'. the european parliament has repeatedly called for this, and we in parliament welcome the invitation to submit our proposals. we have already made some initial remarks. but we are already seeing that some areas need to be improved and developed further - for example, that companies based in the eu must be held legally accountable if they promote or facilitate human rights violations. in the area of internet technology in particular, we have a worrying increase in authoritarian governments demanding this censorship technology. secondly, i noted that you had not accepted the proposal to appoint a high-level representative or a position in the eu representing human rights policy in various policy areas. i thank you very much for your verbal support. we in parliament are very pleased about this. it was a demand of ours. in conclusion, let me say that it is very encouraging that the danish minister for foreign and european affairs has stated here today that he is very concerned about the implementation and development of this human rights strategy. i take this opportunity to emphasise once again that we may succeed in getting all the eu institutions to agree not only on a strategy but also on a common declaration and a common consensus on human rights. the support of the human rights politicians in this house will help you to do this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. the eu-russia summit is taking place this week in a very tense and crucial situation. the meaning and success of our partnership for modernisation will depend on whether the russian state is prepared to enter into such a partnership for modernisation with its own people, a renewal of society through greater democracy, the rule of law and respect for civil rights. the preliminary report of the bdimr and the monitoring of the russian ngo golos show that the duma elections were significantly manipulated and rigged in favor of the ruling united russia party. the united russia has not, as far as we know, won an absolute majority. tens of thousands of citizens have protested against it. they feel betrayed and their dignity violated. they don't want a revolution, they want honest elections and the registration of real opposition parties. even mikhail gorbachev, who has so far refrained from criticising putin, is calling for the election to be annulled and for new elections to be held. we should support this democratic movement and not just see if it can achieve its demands on its own. their courage and fearlessness point to new times. it is foolish to expect independent investigations from those responsible for the vote rigging. what do we expect from a president medvedev, who was vice president under putin for four years, who wants to investigate the allegations, but already knows that there is nothing wrong, who does not do anything against the voter fraudsters, but threatens the governors with consequences that did not bring the given numbers! how incredible are the results from the caucasus alone! on the other hand, medvedev still has the chance to make up for all the disappointed hopes of his reform announcement by at least proving himself to be the outgoing president and calling for new elections. and what do we expect from a putin who dug up the old kgb robber pistol, the us who controlled the protests, a wolf-like dictator who has ignored the democratic demands of civil society for years, in whose sovereign democracy the sovereign is not in question, but he is in charge! the eu should therefore not ask the russian side for a fair explanation and investigation on thursday, as it usually does, when only honest and transparent elections and the admission of the parties previously excluded can reduce the public anger and overcome the conflict. i would ask you to support our amendment tomorrow.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. strategic partnership must mean balancing interests on core issues, such as people's living conditions, equal economic opportunities and common challenges to be solved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but strategically it also means achieving concrete results, making political decision-making transparent for all, including the clarification of the events surrounding the elections. we have an understanding. nothing works without common security. but what is not clear is why we are not building common security together. the eu also has proposals for discussion. the next summit has to pick them up. it must commit itself to better directing the funds for increasing armaments into the concrete design processes of the modernization partnership. this is in the interest of both sides and also in the interest of their citizens who want to have a fair share in economic progress. prosperous economies and just societies will eventually make the adherence to the ways of the arrogance of power obsolete. because such societies need the competence and commitment of all citizens. russian protesters in bolotnaya square on saturday drew the attention of their government to this connection and specifically demanded changes.
madam president, this is lady ashton. i can only agree with what mrs oomen-ruijten said about the elections. our heartfelt request is to make it clear to the russian president that we want to see his announcements followed by action and that we will take him at his word. i think it is right, as mr swoboda has already said, that we will hold a major hearing with all the parties concerned when the osce, the bdimr, has presented its report, and i therefore think it is wrong to call for new elections here now, before this report is available. i want to say something to mr kelam. unfortunately, he's not here anymore. maybe it's just a mistake in the translation. "the protesters in moscow are an opportunity for us too", he said. i don't think that's right. this is not an opportunity for us, this is an opportunity for the people of russia! so we should be careful about what we say. elections are an important topic of discussion at the summit. but this summit can also be a summit of confidence. there are two positive points i would like to mention briefly. on the one hand, after 18 years of negotiations, accession to the wto not only clarifies the rules of the game but also can facilitate a new agreement with us, which hopefully will eliminate unilateral trade restrictions as they have been in the past and which can remove the burdens that have been created by the siberian overflight rights. the second and last point i want to touch on briefly is the question of visas and mobility. we are pleased that there will be a regulation on border traffic to and from kaliningrad. this is a real relief for the people of poland, but also and especially for the people of kaliningrad. the joint steps they are seeking to agree on and which have been well prepared will hopefully lead, with the goodwill of both countries, to the eventual introduction of this visa-free regime. we talk about modernisation, about human rights, about building civil society, and we want to bring this to a reasonable, good outcome. but without human-to-human contact, this will not work.
madam president, the very honorable lady ashton! the point is that mr putin is not only a pure anti-democrat, he is also a high-profile anti-democrat. he won his first election - let us not forget this - and came to power by launching a campaign of extermination against chechnya. in his entire term as president and prime minister, he has done nothing but reverse the partial democratization of russia that has been achieved - both at home and abroad. mr. medvedev has put a more friendly face on the whole thing, but the holy scriptures say, "by their fruits you will know them". unfortunately, we do not see such fruitage in god. that is why i believe that the demand that there should be democratic elections in russia is justified. it is not at all sensible to ask the person who is manipulating the elections to investigate and expose his own manipulation. that's not gonna happen. now we always hear: "yes, but stability in russia is the priority". that is what was said in north africa, and then we shed crocodile tears over mr mubarak or mr gaddafi and others. our interest is stability in russia. but stability in russia can only exist if russia is a democratic state governed by the rule of law, as embodied by the civil rights and opposition activists here in the gallery, as embodied by the russian freedom protesters. there is no stability without freedom. that's a lesson from history we should finally learn.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the improvement of human rights is part of the more for more principle. i am therefore pleased that in future the results of the human rights consultation will be included in the annual progress reports of each country. we were just having the debate on the situation in syria. i am therefore quite conscious of saying that we must learn from the mistakes made in dealing with the arab despots. to the east, this means no lazy compromises with lukashenko and no deals with yanukovych. as long as the opposition is in prison, there can be no new agreements. mr siwiec spoke of strengthening civil society. but this should not be a mere intention. the eastern partnership civil society forum is an important component of the neighbourhood programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is therefore important that we support the existing approaches and promote coordination with the eu through a relevant secretariat.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank very much the two rapporteurs for having done the difficult job of bringing these two neighbourhood policies together in such a brave way, and also commissioner füle for trying to bring political structure into this neighbourhood process, which we have lacked in the past. these regions are of great strategic importance to us for various reasons, and therefore this is not aid to these countries, but we are acting in our own interests here. that these countries are free to decide, that people feel that we support their freedom and their living conditions, and that we need to see both in harmony if it is to work, seems clear to me. this is why it is important to have more structured aid - aid that goes faster, that brings opportunities for growth, employment and education, that is applied directly there, and not just to commission studies. in the past, we have always had the opportunity to commission studies, for example, in connection with enlargement to central and eastern europe and in other cases. the money then went to germany, england or holland, where the recipients of the studies were, and did not go to the countries that needed it. i think we need to make some improvements here so that the money really gets to the people. we must promote the multilateral process. in north africa, for example, 15% of trade is internal. if you strengthen the multilateral approach, there are great opportunities for growth, but also opportunities to come together politically and overcome the conflict between these countries, because they get incentives that they have a benefit when they work together. it cannot always be our bilateral relations with the countries concerned and in this context the free trade areas, association agreements, perhaps especially the eastern neighbourhood, which have a european perspective. i think it is important to discuss the european economic area. but also our willingness to open our borders as far as fair trade conditions are concerned. commissioner, i think it is important that the question of promoting democracy should also be put forward more strongly and that the idea of an endowment foundation is a good idea. but you should reconsider if you can't do this as a team. we have a lot of money in the pot, instrument for human rights, etc. let's use it for that before it ages there. it would be a big mistake to make this an intergovernmental event.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if i take the previous speakers schlyter and rossi as a basis. we have criticized the fact that these packages list some fruits that are not in them. the commission's proposal does not change that. the positive aspect of this proposal is that fruit juices may no longer be added to sugar. that's the good part. i don't want to repeat what mrs ayuso has already criticized. but, commissioner, you are talking about better consumer information. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear picture of the situation in the community. that has not been possible before. until now, you could only take the noble fruit, the flavor of this batch, and put it back. that was a quality mark. we're giving up now. secondly, the added sugar. we have a labeling policy. it says, "what's on it, must be in it". now we confuse the consumer by saying, "no sugar in it". after five years, we'll throw it away, and then the consumer will think, "oh, there's sugar in it again". so this is not clear legislation that you are proposing here. the second point is the procedure. i would like to address my colleagues. if nine of the 31 amendments tabled in the committee on the environment are included in this so-called compromise and four of them are technical measures, then the committee cannot be thanked. there's nothing left in it that the committee suggested. the council and the commission have clearly been implementing what they wanted to do, and we were not at all pleased with that. i'm telling you the truth. i shall vote against this compromise because it is a lazy compromise, because it reduces the quality of the products and puts the procedure and parliament on the sidelines. i can't do this! we should first of all think about how we will deal with this in the future. we could have done the first reading, we could have done the second reading. there is no pressure to make a quick decision. we've been going up and down resolution all day and that's all we've been doing. this is a very lazy thing we have here. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. you don't believe that this will be implemented as it has been decided here. the labels will be the same. we already have it. we might have to remember what we decided to do. the labelling directive does, however, require the order of the products in the list of ingredients to be in order of quantity. we forget that and suddenly we do something completely different. that is the criticism i always have of european legislation, that we do not remember what we have already decided. we are surprised that the consumer does not accept this and is angry about european rules.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not the rapporteur, mr president, is concerned with the question of better consumer information. in this new form, what was not possible before is to add flavour from other fruits, from another batch, a fruit juice that, one might have to assume, would be made from less sweet fruits. it doesn't say that on the back. how do you link this to your view of better consumer information?
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank mr newton dunn very warmly for his commitment to carrying out - together with the hungarian and polish presidencies and all the shadow rapporteurs - a task which affects our daily lives. these are therefore among the most important issues on which a legislator must take care to act in the best possible way. as mr newton dunn has already mentioned, this regulation is designed to amend a 2004 regulation, the so-called detergents regulation, in order to harmonise the phosphate content of detergents for laundry and automatic household dishwasher detergents throughout the european union. that's why i insisted on daily life. as a consequence of the limitations in the regulation, the costs of phosphates removal in waste water treatment plants will be reduced as fewer chemicals will be needed to remove phosphates. in addition, it will improve the quality of surface water in the union in regions where tertiary treatment in waste water treatment plants is not, or is not yet, installed. i am very pleased that parliament and the council support the commission proposal on the limitation of the phosphate content of household laundry detergents and i welcome the amendment to express the limit in 'grams per standard washing dose', as it will provide an incentive for innovation and further compaction of laundry detergents. the parliament and the council also decided to introduce the phosphate limitations in consumer automatic dishwasher detergents as of 1 january 2017. the commission is expected to present a report to examine whether the limit value and the date of application of the limitations for dishwasher detergents are technically and economically feasible for all operators in the european union and do not have negative effects on consumers or the environment. on the basis of this report, the commission may, if it deems it necessary, submit a new proposal on this subject. in the spirit of compromise and in order to allow the adoption of the regulation at first reading, the commission can accept the compromise text, although it contains some elements which depart from its original proposal. in particular, the commission regrets that the introduction of the limits for consumer automatic dishwasher detergents has not followed the principles of 'better regulation' and 'fact-based policy-making'. we therefore thought it appropriate to make a statement to that effect. in conclusion, the commission can also accept all the compromise amendments and is pleased that, thanks to the cooperative attitude of both institutions - parliament and council - it was possible to reach an agreement at first reading. finally, in the debate which has been opened following the intervention of mr newton dunn, i would like to confirm that the commission's proposal on fertilisers is scheduled for 2012 and that phosphates will not be the only or the main element addressed in the proposal. an impact assessment is currently under way and will be concluded shortly.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. water and phosphate form a tight bond. i'd like to start with the water. water is literally and figuratively an elixir of life. with the european water framework directive and its subsidiary directives, we have created an instrument for good water quality throughout europe. phosphate is also a key building block of life, without which nothing in this world can exist. he is, however, finally. and the high-quality sources of phosphate are running out. the amendment to the detergents regulation and the ban on phosphates in household detergents will now achieve two objectives. we are reducing the consumption of this precious resource, phosphate, on the one hand, and at the same time we are preventing eutrophication of our waters. water is limitless. but water quality and hardness vary widely from one member state to another. this means that there must be different measures. there is a major phosphate problem in the baltic sea, for example, or in the danube. other countries have managed to control the phosphate pollution of their waters by means of good sewage treatment plants. phosphate is filtered out and prepared for reuse. but the old adage is true: prevention is better than cure! so if we can do without the use of phosphates in detergents, then we should do so. in my native germany, there have been no phosphates in detergents for twenty years. it proves you can do without it. the need for action to switch to phosphate-free detergents is particularly acute in countries with poor wastewater treatment facilities, particularly in southern and eastern europe. i therefore welcome the fact that we can now enforce an eu-wide ban on phosphates in detergents from 2013. the council also adopted, on parliament's initiative, parliament's call for a ban on phosphates in dishwasher detergents from 2017. this clear ban will increase the pressure on companies to innovate, and they will be obliged to develop good, phosphate-free dishwashing detergents in the next five years. there are already good alternatives available today, and they are already being marketed in some member states with soft water. the new regulation therefore also allows member states to introduce an earlier ban before 2017. compared to other input sources such as human metabolism, the input from dishwashing detergents is very low. however, in the interests of a sustainable economy, phosphates must be phased out wherever possible. i thank the rapporteur, bill newton dunn, for the good work he has done, and the polish presidency for its mediation efforts, and of course the commission for the good presentation. we have achieved a good result and can conclude the first reading with a clear conscience.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i 'll make this short . the polish presidency was without doubt one of the best we have had in recent years. i am now faced with the fifteenth presidency in my capacity as president of my group. i repeat: in those 15 and a half years, it was by far one of the best presidencies i have ever seen. (applause from the centre) this applies not only to you, mr prime minister, but above all to your government and to the officials we have met here. i 'd like to add: there is a high level of professionalism in this government. i commend you on this, and so do my colleagues. you are so good, you could easily be a social democrat, mr tusk. unfortunately, you chose the other path. (interruption: that is still possible, he is still young.) historical errors can be corrected, mr prime minister, that is not a problem. the polish presidency has seen another development which is of greater concern to me and which you have mentioned. we are at a crossroads, you said, mr prime minister. that's right, you're right. we are at a crossroads because we are losing the trust of the people in democratic institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. why would you do that? because there's a dramatic process that's accelerating. the power of the so-called financial markets is now so great that even the governments of large countries are submitting to the power of these financial markets, instead of trying to use democratic institutions in such a way that the financial markets come under the control of democratic institutions. but the nation state cannot do that because financial markets are global, because they are supranational. what happens is that we are dealing with an economic system, a financial market system, that literally drives the ferrari, and control, if it remains national, is chasing the bike. that's the problem we have. and that is why we need transnational institutions at european level that are able to tackle this problem. the defence of the community method is nothing other than the creation of a 21st century instrument which meets this 21st century economic development with the methods of this century and not those of the 19th century. that is what the community method is all about. and that is why you said that you, the members of the european parliament, are the constituent assembly that must do this. yeah, i'm with you. and what i am interested in - and i want to make this clear - is no longer a contract text. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore say: what we discussed yesterday here, that this parliament must have the courage to develop an alternative approach when the council is faced with its limits because of its difficult unanimity structure, then i feel encouraged by you, mr prime minister, that this parliament must indeed resort to extraordinary measures, if necessary also to extra-contractual measures. the council does, as we saw last weekend. that is why, mrs merkel, you and others who tell us: 'you are the strong parliament, you are the strong constituents': we are taking this up. but you are also asked to say in the council that whatever we do must be legitimized by the european parliament. then i expect that what you have announced here will be brought to the council by you. and if the others do not follow you, you veto it and say: i will not participate until the european parliament is strengthened. mr president, i have spent a lot of time on my speech. i know, and i apologize for that. but i would like to say two things. one is a congratulatory message to my colleague joseph daul. he was re-elected yesterday with 95% of his group, which i wholeheartedly approve. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that many of you are pleased that this is my last speech as chairman of this group. i would like to thank all those who have listened to me so attentively, those who have been wronged by me, and those who think i am a good member of parliament: give me your vote for the next office! thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that the polish presidency of the council has been able to conclude its presidency so successfully. if you get so much praise for a presidency across all political groups as i have not heard - similar to my colleague schulz - in 15 presidencies where i was lucky enough to witness it, then it is clear that the "p" in poland stands for "professional". we thank you for the work you have done in this area. unfortunately, much of what you have done as president has been overshadowed by the general attention paid to the euro and debt crises in europe. but you have done something important that has not been mentioned before: in the preparations for the multiannual financial framework of the european union, you, as the presidency, have for the first time involved the european parliament at a very early stage. i had the pleasure of leading a delegation from the european parliament to sopot. we as a parliament have been involved in these discussions at an early stage, at a stage like no other. this is important to us. we hope that this will continue to be the case. in the fields of home affairs and justice, where i have also worked for many years, you have made substantial progress in combating child abuse and in other areas. it can be said that you will end your presidency with a record of success which i would like other european states and companies to follow. i thank you and look forward to further cooperation in another context in the council!
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i can only join the ranks of those who have congratulated the presidency of the council. you were not only an honest broker in a difficult time, but you were also a european broker. it was very pleasing to feel that in these difficult times, when we have political currents in a number of member states which suggest to people that we can achieve more by ourselves than by working together. and you've put the common at the center. it was also very refreshing to see that in the domestic political debate you also found support among the people of poland for this clear european agenda. it was not easy in that context. and i have the utmost respect for what you've done. we have made some progress in the field of financial regulation in the past six months. let me just pick one area which i was able to negotiate myself, namely the question of regulation of short selling and uncovered credit default swaps on government bonds, where the commission did not dare to propose a strict regulation, where we were told by all the member states: 'you will not prevail', and where thanks to the polish presidency of the council it was possible to sanction and, where necessary, also to prohibit a highly speculative instrument so that we can contribute to greater stability in the financial markets. i would like to thank your finance minister and the secretary of state for having initiated this in a laborious process of discussion between parliament and the council. it is an example of what can be done together in the interests of security and stability in europe. thank you very much for that.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the new mechanism for monitoring economic imbalances came into force yesterday. the specific regulations on the content are now available. what developments does the commission now consider to be dangerous, and what economic problems does it wish to see corrected? the commission considers that the growth of unit labour costs in the euro countries of more than 3% per year is a problem. there is no limit on the fall in wages. the commission is not in favour of the idea of a single market. it is not enough to tell member states to achieve prosperity at the expense of their trading partners. without investment in education, health and energy efficiency, we can exploit our workers to the bone, but we will not write economic success stories. another example from the scoreboard: loss of export market share is to be monitored and sanctioned. this is bullshit. the european union's share in world trade is statistically bound to decline as world trade increases. the indicator thus penalizes countries that are already involved in world trade. we therefore think that the commission should withdraw this scoreboard and undergo a general review.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i could not support the amendment of the fruit juice directive for both substantive and formal reasons. so i cannot share the optimism of my colleagues on this issue. the content of the directive is to relax the quality requirements for fruit juices and thus open the door to consumer counterfeiting. for formal reasons, the main objection is that the current text does not at all correspond to the will of the committee responsible. the majority of the report voted on at that meeting was not taken into account in the compromise text presented. the amendment to the fruit juice directive thus means a deterioration in the quality of fruit juices and does not sufficiently reflect the opinion of parliament, so i had to reject it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to comment on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household detergents. i think that the report, the proposal or the regulation is trying to find a good compromise here, namely, on the one hand, to remove these phosphates permanently and definitively from the environment, if that is what is wanted. we all know that this is a very dangerous environmental poison; that is why phosphates are no longer used in household detergents. on the other hand, of course, one must also face reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not worth replacing one pollutant with another. that is what we are trying to do here. that's why i agreed to the proposal and i hope that there will be further discussions, that we can use our environment and our detergents in a more sustainable and environmentally friendly way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i could not agree to the extension of the european union's fisheries agreement with morocco. the main objectives of the agreement, namely stabilising the eu market and developing the fisheries sector, have apparently not been achieved. quite the opposite. many fish stocks are overfished and the eu's financial performance has no significant impact on the moroccan budget. the sahrawi people are not guaranteed their right to participate in the exploitation of their fish stocks and to receive a fair share of the fishery proceeds. i can only agree to a new agreement if a just solution is found in accordance with international and human rights law. in this context, the subsequent motion for a resolution, which i have expressly re-approved, was a reassuring signal for the future that we are continuing the negotiations, that we are making a new agreement and that the new agreement will be much better than the one currently in force.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am in favour of rapid and constructive negotiations with morocco. everyone in this house knows that i am a staunch defender of human rights. but if you have a technical problem with morocco, you should discuss it in a technical way and not abuse the human rights issue. if there is one country in north africa where the balance between freedom and stability, between human rights and constitutional development is fairly well balanced, it is morocco. we should recognize this and not give in to the misleading arguments of a polisario lobby. we must be clear about this: morocco is an old, complicated country with good development. the new elections have taken this development a step further in the right direction. i warn you not to misuse the subject for other purposes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is now more than 60 years since winston churchill proposed here in strasbourg the creation of a common european army. it's high time he realized his vision. i believe that we urgently need a european common foreign and security policy and, of course, the objective of a common european army and a common european defence. we can save a lot of money on the way there. it's important in the financial crisis. i would like to point out that. because if we europeans, like the americans, did not buy and buy in segments, but collectively, we could save four-fifths of our defence costs. we could increase our efficiency and at the same time free up large sums for other areas, such as social policy. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of defence.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report covers all the major common issues very well, from democracy and the rule of law to migration issues and the fight against poverty. but we should make it very clear that we must maintain the distinction between the eastern and the mediterranean partnerships, which is what we have fought for. this was achieved by the czech presidency under prince schwarzenberg. because these countries have a lot in common, but they also differ. in the mediterranean we are dealing with important non-european neighbours, in the east with european countries which for various reasons cannot at present have a prospect of accession. both need our support. i would like to highlight one particular issue. this is the question of energy policy, renewable resources, for example in ukraine, solar energy, for example in the mediterranean. we have very important tasks here in the neighbourhood policy, which are common. but, as i said, the achievement is a great one. you're supposed to treat different things differently.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report because i believe it will bring a significant improvement in the present situation for consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the best solution, of course, is to make your own juices according to your own recipes. i think it is appropriate to review the efficiency in five years.
in writing. − for years we in the european parliament have been fighting for safe and high-quality food. the text we voted on today is anything but that, because it dilutes the existing standards for the quality of fruit juices in europe. that is why i could not agree to the compromise package today. i would also like to criticise the way the negotiations have proceeded. the compromise package cannot be such as to largely ignore the opinion of the committee responsible. the european parliament has long fought to be a legislator of equal standing. we must also take this responsibility in the negotiations for the benefit of the citizens of europe. i would have wished for a different result of the vote today, in the interests of those citizens.
in writing. - i agreed to the report because in future detergents will have to be almost phosphate-free. phosphate is the main cause of uncontrolled algal growth in waters and of fish death. everywhere there, and these are almost all areas where phosphates can be replaced, they have to be replaced. otherwise, the quantities must be drastically reduced. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in all member states.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, public access to european parliament, council and commission documents is an important right for citizens and it is our responsibility to make such access as broad and as easy as possible. at the same time, we are the guardians of other fundamental rights, such as the privacy of individuals or the protection of intellectual property rights. none of these rights can claim precedence over the others, and we must protect them all; therefore our institutions have the responsibility to strike the right balance amongst sometimes competing interests. our proposal from 2008 reflects this delicate balance. two-and-a-half years ago we discussed the first report presented by rapporteur mr cashman. at that time the european parliament decided not to vote on the draft legislative resolution and to refer the report back to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. regrettably, no real progress was made since, despite my standing offer to have a genuine dialogue on the core elements of our proposal. in the meantime the lisbon treaty has entered into force and required adjustment to the 2008 commission proposal. this was duly highlighted in our communication on the consequences for pending proposals of the entry into force of the treaty, where we suggested that these adjustments were included in the ongoing legislative process. as there was no progress, the commission decided in march this year to submit a separate proposal with a view to making the current regulation compliant with the new treaty. let me be very clear. the extension of the scope to all institutions, bodies, offices and agencies is a legal obligation under the treaty and therefore should not be controversial. this is why i have suggested a swift and separate discussion on this rather technical amendment, leaving the door open for further discussions on other changes to the regulation. i regret that this pragmatic and constructive two-step approach has not been followed by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and that the report we are discussing today actually merges the two commission proposals. this means that the implementation of the legal obligations under the treaty, the actual creation of a new right for citizens, is now being postponed until the three institutions agree on full-scale review of the regulation. in the meantime citizens will have no full, formal access to documents coming, for example, from the european council or the external action service. this agreement risks taking time and i am afraid that, given the amendments proposed in the report, agreement on changes to the regulations is not within reach. i cannot of course anticipate the position the council will take on the proposed amendments but many of them cannot be accepted by the commission. firstly, and because the lisbon treaty has extended the principle of access to documents to all institutions, bodies, agencies and offices of the eu, any common set of rules needs to feed a greater number of bodies with very different mandates and competences and this requires a sufficient degree of flexibility. the proposed amendments do not go, however, in this direction and some of the amendments would even significantly weaken the protection of legitimate interests. for example: no exception to refuse access would apply to legislative documents. it means we would need to grant access to early drafts of legislation and to legal opinions. the institutions would simply have no space to think. this is going too far in our view and we cannot rule out the need to protect a document a least temporarily. another example concerns non-legislative documents where legal advice would no longer be protected if the rapporteur’s amendments are carried through. finally, it would also be impossible to protect personal data or sensitive documents after 30 years. besides protecting legitimate interests and a space to think we must also ensure that the regulation is used to disclose documents to the public in the public interest, and i would underline and repeat: in the public interest. this is its ultimate objective. from our experience, however, the regulation is regularly misused by lobbyists or law firms with a view to obtaining information serving their own private interests. as these requests mostly concern very voluminous files – 50 000 pages is not an exception – the commission considers that the handling of such requests is excessively resource-consuming, with no added value for citizens. therefore the commission proposes some clarification to the scope of the regulation. these proposals would not affect legitimate requests and our estimates would not impact on the numbers of the requests granted. they are aimed at better protecting public resources and a well functioning administration but they have now been simply removed from the report with no clear justification. finally, a substantial number of amendments concern provisions of the regulation which the commission did not propose to amend. we are not adopting a new regulation but amending an existing one, using recasting. i simply recall that the scope for substantive changes open to the legislator is bound to follow those parts included in the commission’s proposal. such is the agreement between the three institutions on recasting, which dates from 2003. to sum up the commission will look carefully at the amendments that will be voted by this parliament but, let me be very clear, many cannot be accepted by the commission. though disappointed by the lack of progress so far, i hope that a real constructive dialogue can take place between the three institutions after the vote, with a view to reaching an agreement. i would also like to repeat what i have said on previous occasions. the regulation is part of the eu policy on transparency but we can do a lot beyond formal legislation; we can improve registers; we can improve user-friendliness and accessibility; we can be more active in dissemination and documents can be published faster. i can bring some more examples. the real objective of transparency is to bring our institutions closer to citizens through an active policy of informing them and making them aware of how europe-wide policies are elaborated and may affect their daily lives. i look forward to the constructive and thought-provoking discussions to come. the subject deserves it and our citizens are entitled to expect a clear and well-functioning legislation on public access to our documents.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. there is no doubt that this house is committed to transparency and openness to the citizen. the same applies to my group. but this report goes far beyond the actual objective. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of ionizing radiation. this is a massive breach of data protection, which we have always been so strongly committed to elsewhere. are we to give up our privacy to the world? the report is a danger precisely because it is intended to publish administrative procedures and decisions, including, for example, personnel matters. the same applies to the protection of trade secrets and sensitive information in the context of licensing, judicial and competition proceedings. the report, with its vague, unclear and far too broad definitions, also allows public access to such documents. a document is defined as any data or content that is related in any way to the policies, actions and decisions of all the eu institutions and bodies. this includes, to a large extent, preparatory, confidential and secret documents and all related information. this definition therefore covers not only documents but also information. information from ongoing interinstitutional procedures, such as informal trilogue negotiations, should also be published. do you really know what that means, mr rapporteur? it means public access to the proceedings! it means public influence on the decision-making process! we could just sit the lobbyists down and have a negotiation. is that what the people want? i can't imagine what it would be like. in addition, documents relating to non-legislative procedures, measures of internal administrative organisation, etc. are to be published. where's the public interest in that? or would it not hinder our work? this report is not in the interests of our citizens. it would bring a flood of useless information. it would make our work impossible and above all it is unacceptable to the other institutions because it is contrary to the rules and laws in force. you know that, mr rapporteur, and you are basically working against greater transparency and against the citizen.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. i can't let this go. i did not say that the citizen should not have any influence on the legislative process. i told you the lobby would get in on it. that is something else entirely, madam president. i will not be vilified by you in this way. i am very much in favour of making our policy clear to the citizen, but i am against you spreading such nonsense and trying to show us how this whole thing is a bitter comedy. it's the big show to the citizen. it is blind populism which will ultimately make our work here impossible.
i have to say, madam president, a few decades ago, in large parts of europe, the rule was: the individual is nothing, the state is everything. the citizen was nothing but a lawless subject of the state institutions. what we are constantly working on here - and here access to documents is just one argument among many - is to reverse this relationship between citizens and the state and to put it on a new footing. access to information and transparency are necessary conditions for democracy. citizens cannot exercise their civil rights, cannot intervene politically, cannot express their will without sufficient access to them. this also means that the institutions must understand that they are not the masters of the citizens, but that they are the providers of services to the citizens. i would like to say this to vice-president šefčovič and to others who have said this: not every cough needs to be made transparent. there are also transactions for which confidentiality is warranted. but you can't just say that. it is not easy to classify it as 'confidential', but it requires a clean procedure. in case of dispute, if this is questioned, it must be possible to decide this in court. this is appropriate in a modern democratic society and in a legal system. we have a trend where more and more lobby interests, corporate interests, are directly influencing political decisions. we can only restore trust when citizens know that they have extensive access to documents. as we deal with this, we are seeing more and more institutions being created outside the treaties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for a very lively debate, which clearly demonstrates the importance of ensuring clear rules for citizens’ access to eu documents. this is the objective of the regulation and i am very glad that it was underlined by several speakers, starting with ms sommer. the discussion was wide-ranging. of course i will not be able to respond to all the comments or all the points raised, so allow me to take this opportunity to set the record straight on some of the critical remarks on the commission’s proposal. first i would like to give ms monika flašíková beňová and ms jäätteenmäki assurance as to the definition of ‘documents’. the proposed regulation would not lead to fewer documents being disclosed than is the case today; a more precise definition of ‘documents’ means safer administration and more clarity for the citizens. as i have already stated, many requests for competition files running to thousands of pages are made by lawyers of the companies concerned for reasons that have nothing to do with the aim of transparency. these requests do not lead to the public disclosure of documents, but create a huge administrative burden and search. these requests are made in order to create a competitive advantage over competitors or to circumvent investigation. this burden is very great in the files related to the protection of the single market. therefore we believe that our proposed definition mainly clarifies the situation. on the exceptions relating to the legislative process: i believe – as do many speakers in the house – that to have a limited space to think is necessary, as was pointed out by several speakers, mr pirker, mr busuttil and others. here in the european parliament several of you reflected on what consequences the proposed amendments by mr cashman would have on the proceedings of the conference of presidents or ongoing trialogues, for example. i believe that you will agree that internal discussions must be frank, which requires a certain degree of confidentiality as regards the opinions expressed. this confidentiality must be balanced against the public interest of transparency on a case-by-case basis, as was pointed out by mr alfano. a few words on the next steps. as i have stated, the commission is looking forward to discussions with the co-legislators and will participate actively with a view to reaching a balanced compromise. in light of the progress of these discussions, the commission will decide on further steps and will do its utmost to contribute to finding common ground between the co-legislators. in the meantime the commission will continue to work proactively on increasing transparency. i cannot accept some of the claims that the commission is against transparency; that we are trying to get a rollback on transparency. that is definitely not true. we are very much continuing with our transparency initiative. i truly believe that the eu institutions and the commission are among the most transparent in the world. they would stand comparison in this respect to any member state in the european union. take the transparency register for example. we have already more than 4 600 companies registered and more that 22 000 people covered. i would very much welcome the support of the european parliament in being even more proactive in raising awareness of the transparency register. help us to get more law firms registered in the transparency register so that they send us fewer letters asking for documents which the commission has to study very carefully if they are not related to ongoing investigations. they should be enrolled in the register. why are they refusing? help us there and i think we will do a greater service to transparency in the european union. next year, thanks to the great assistance and help from this parliament, we will start with the european citizens’ initiative. i think that this will be another test for all of the eu institutions: how we can react, how we can communicate and how we can exchange views and reconnect with european citizens. i think this will be further proof of how the european commission and how the eu institutions communicate with citizens. i would like to thank all the honourable members for their active discussion on this file. i am open for constructive cooperation and i believe that, if we really focus on the balanced approach, we can achieve this goal.
question for the commissioner: let me make one thing clear. the rapporteur has said, quite literally, that i refused to compromise as the epp negotiator. it's not right. we have had many meetings with the shadow rapporteurs, but the rapporteur's compromise proposals to me as the representative of my group were such that i was virtually offered his opinion. the rapporteur has refused all the epp proposals for compromise and has recently explicitly excluded us from the debate on even trivial matters. that's a truth that needs to be told. second thing: the rapporteur has just said: 'this report cannot simply repeal the data protection directive.' so if you read the text of your report, it says in recital 18: given that this regulation directly implements article 15 tfeu and article 42 of the charter, the principles and restrictions on access to documents set out therein should prevail over any other rules, measures or procedures adopted by an institution, body, office or agency on any other legal basis, which introduce additional or more stringent derogations than those provided for in this regulation. well, there must be some truth to it.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues in the shadow committee for their very open and good cooperation. this was not too difficult in this case either, because we are all convinced of the good and very efficient work that emsa has done in recent years. it was not long before we had a fairly homogeneous picture of how we could envisage the future work of this agency. we all agreed that any extension of powers, whatever it may be, must either have a european added value or generate significant synergy effects in the member states. let me just touch on a few aspects. on april 20, 2010, we had the worst oil spill in human history in the gulf of mexico. on august 10, 2011, there was the oil spill on gannet alpha, the platform in the north sea. the oslo-paris commission report on oil pollution shows that in 2008 there were over 500 oil spills on oil and gas platforms in the north sea. it is therefore right that the directorate-general for energy has put forward a package of legislation to improve the regulation of oil platforms. it's an independent third party that's supposed to monitor the safety of the oil rigs. we should open the door to emsa together here. which european actor could best take on this supervisory role? yes, i know, emsa doesn't have the expertise yet. but that's a weak argument. there are large interfaces with the current areas of work of emsa, and it is much more efficient to build on existing resources than to create entirely new ones. when the member states say today that we are ready to extend the mandate of emsa, and say that emsa is now not only responsible for shipwrecks but also for cleaning up oil pollution caused by oil rigs, that may be a minimum of common sense, but it is certainly not a major breakthrough. the european parliament must be concerned with preventive measures. cleaning up after yourself isn't enough. commissioner oettinger said that there are plenty of facts of accidents which confirm that prevention is better than cure. the sentence may not be very rich, but it is certainly correct. let me now turn to two other points which i think are also important. we need european shipping without frontiers. we have already discussed this in many discussions, but there is still too little and too slow progress towards this goal. with the help of emsa and its recording facilities, we can make progress in this area too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot and do not want to win the competition in the field of the lowest personnel costs and the lowering of social standards. but when it comes to the quality of training, when it comes to training and further training of seafarers, we can be at the forefront, and emsa can and must contribute its knowledge and expertise. the report was supported by a large majority in the committee. it is a clear sign that parliament is serious about its proposals. i am confident about the negotiations with the council. but this requires a serious willingness to negotiate. that's what i'm asking.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr fleckenstein, thank you for your excellent coordination. coordination is always very important, especially when it comes to the european maritime safety agency. these agencies are very quick to criticize. we heard this from mr van dalen earlier. but i think that we should really say thank you, also to the staff of emsa. you did an excellent job. we have heard very clearly again this morning in the debate on security and defence policy what potential we have in europe if we work together sensibly. we could demonstrate this in a special way in the field of maritime safety and in the field of a european maritime area. i am referring to the coordination of disaster prevention in our maritime areas. it is very crucial that emsa also gets good cooperation from the member states there, when it comes to towing capacity, oil-fighting vessels, inspection vessels and inspection aircraft, to identify environmental cleaners, then record the data in safeseanet and actually do some very efficient core work here. the debate on the united coast guard is, of course, an excellent one, if we are to say that we are basically shifting more and more tasks towards the european union. but if we look at the situation in the member states as a whole, we can see that controls are sometimes carried out three or four times. there's the federal police, who basically provide border security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and then there's the fisheries inspectorate and finally the water protection police. if we can coordinate these things sensibly, there is a huge potential for savings that we should be able to tap into. satellite-based ship navigation system was mentioned. we must equip the passages with a high traffic volume with such a navigation system via galileo. i am thinking of the bosporus, gibraltar and also the cadet canal. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i think that was more of a statement than a question. i am sure we can agree on that, mr van dalen. it's specifically about monitoring oil and gas platforms, as you said, but from the situation that we had around the world, just with deepwater horizon, a scenario that just gave us the task, preventively, to monitor more there. it is therefore necessary that emsa should take on this task.
i have to say, madam president, when i was reporting on integrated maritime policy last year, the gulf of mexico accident had just happened. we were already thinking at the time: what can be done to intervene better in such cases, and how can prevention be carried out? we were already on emsa at that time. i would also like to thank mr fleckenstein for this. that was a great job. it's really important to see what institutions you have and how you can engage them even further and differently. the sea is being used more and more in the future because it also has resources. it is not only important for shipping but also for energy production. it's important to think about how we can protect the ocean. if we have an institution which could do this with more powers, we should ask it to do so. of course she needs money for that. but that is why our approach was right: when the budget was discussed, the commission wanted to reduce the appropriations for the agencies. but we said, "no, we can't do that". we at emsa in particular already knew that there was another task to be added. so this is a good report. we should give mr fleckenstein the mandate to negotiate soon.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you again for your cooperation and for your comments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make one thing clear again, mr van dalen: this report does not call for a european coastguard. we are asking for the opinion we want - as this parliament has already decided - on what such a coastguard should look like and what its advantages and disadvantages would be. mr gallagher has spoken of the fact that emsa saves member states a lot of money. that's right, you're right. the coastguard is an example of how these synergies can only be achieved if we not only build something together but also remember what we decided in brussels and then dismantle it at home. because that's the only way you're gonna have synergies. i have the impression that some of the transport ministers are taking part in the decision-making in brussels and are forgetting to tell their colleagues at home that something needs to be changed. i'm a german mp, i know what i'm talking about. of course, we could not arrange everything. we take the gender issue seriously. however, it is difficult to resolve gender issues satisfactorily in committees to which 27 countries each send one person. as regards the question of competences - national or regional - we in the committee sometimes felt that it was an intra-spanish debate. i don't care if it's national or regional. the authorities must be responsible, then they are the right people to talk to. and how the jurisdiction is clarified is left to others on the ground. my last point: emsa with an 's' like safety, you are absolutely right. but, mrs foster, if you think that the oil rigs are now particularly well regulated, i would remind you of what i said earlier: 500 accidents on oil and gas rigs in 2008 show that we can think about how we can really improve this and perhaps also integrate it into an agency that is already dealing with similar problems.
in writing. we all have a painful memory of the images of the burning deepwater horizon oil rig in the spring of 2010. outdated technology and a deliberate addressing of safety risks have led to the two-month-long run-off of unfathomable amounts of crude oil. as we all know, the consequences for man and nature have been catastrophic. the fact that the 450 north sea oilfields are also at risk is shown by the oil spill off the gannet alpha pipeline off the coast of scotland in august of this year. i therefore welcome, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal before us to extend the powers of the european maritime safety agency to include the possibility of carrying out safety checks on oil-drilling islands in future. emsa has already demonstrated its ability to act in the past in the event of a refuelling accident. in the light of this experience, i believe that the proposed extension of powers is preferable to the creation of a new agency. in addition, such a european solution to maritime safety problems is preferable to national supervisory authorities. the faster communication channels and the transnational consequences of phenomena such as oil disasters can only be tackled at european level. i would like to thank you, mr knut, for your excellent work as rapporteur and i would like to ask all my colleagues to vote in favour of this important dossier.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. transport is still a burden for some, an evil that unfortunately consumes resources and produces noise and environmental damage. and yet, mobility is more essential than ever. it is necessary for the functioning of our societies, both internally and with each other. it is the backbone of our prosperity and the symbol of individual freedom. it is a basic need that i would like to develop into a basic right for all, especially for the elderly and the disabled. i would therefore like to thank and commend the commission for its vision in the white paper, even though i do not agree with all of it in every respect. i fully agree with the basic idea of making transport more efficient, cleaner and safer and not arbitrarily restricting or relocating it at any cost. i would like to pay special tribute to our rapporteur, mathieu grosch. it has succeeded in identifying the added value of transport policy and in developing coherent, concrete objectives without calling into question the openness of technology. i very much welcome the pursuit of eu-wide standards for safety aspects, for people and goods, supply chains, information and communication systems, energy and environmental aspects, but also for working and social conditions. i am very sorry, however, that i do not have the courage to take a position on long-distance lorries, which i rightly call eco-liners. the reference to subsidiarity sounds good, but it is only a nod to the critics of these vehicles. i am particularly in favour of a shared responsibility for the use of eco-liners. that's much better. the text in the report gives us an opportunity to develop europe-wide minimum standards, specifications and frameworks which member states can apply in the exercise of their subsidiary authorization procedures. i am afraid that this will create a european patchwork of approval and use criteria which we will have to dismantle later with a great deal of financial and bureaucratic effort. we are also taking the opportunity to develop a new vehicle type. such vehicles shall be equipped with the most important environmental and safety-related vehicle assistance systems.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. i am not saying that the commission should be unable to do so. there were 413 amendments and 32 compromises, and we all supported them in large measure. this shows that we all know the importance of moving forward as uniformly as possible on the subject of transport. we have, of course, different ideas in detail in the political groups about individual matters. but basically, we all said, transportation is important. it is a real backbone of the internal market. it is a foundation of european policy to say: we want free movement of people, goods and services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we can really say that it has just become clear - and this report shows that too - that we need all means of transport. we want to make transport more efficient, more environmentally friendly and safer. we must take all of this into account. but in fact, in order to further the internal market, we need all modes of transport, even if one sector may be more emissive than the other. that is what has emerged in this case. in fact, there are not that many points on which we disagree. one concerns the longer trucks. that's very elegantly phrased. i know that not all parties will agree, but what they are saying is that we need a european modular system. so we wanted to have a way to have a bigger volume or maybe a little bit more length, a little bit more weight in the trucks. not everyone likes that. but in some parts of europe, this is already being done, and with success. you can't use that everywhere. i would like to draw the attention of the alde group to an amendment which we tabled after the vote. i think it is more correct and should be widely accepted to say that we are not asking the commission to come forward with a description of the relationship between the network and the operators in the railway package, but that it is better to talk about the separation between the network and the operators, which we also addressed in the recasting of the railway package. that is a correction, i imagine, that everyone can follow. thank you again. i look forward to the vote tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to thank in particular mathieu grosch, who has organised an excellent cooperation. we've also had good results. without a change in mobility, we will not be able to combat climate change, and then our children and their children will have no prospect of living here. why is that? since 1990, we have reduced co2 emissions by 34% in industry, 17% in the energy sector and 14% in households. emissions from transport increased by 30% over the same period. so we can say that transportation consumes double and triple what has been achieved in other sectors with billions of our taxpayers' money. that's why we need a change in traffic. i am very pleased that we have managed to reach a compromise that we want to reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020, on the basis of 1990 and not 2008, as the commission wanted, and then only by 2030. we've made that worse. i would ask the commission to adopt this decision. we don't have time to waste. we must act quickly! i think it is good that we have also shown the internalisation of external costs for all modes of transport. the air transport sector receives 30 billion a year in subsidies from european taxpayers because it is exempt from kerosene and vat, while the railways have to pay for all this. we have a mandatory rail toll for every locomotive. the road toll is a voluntary matter for the member states and applies only to motorways. that's why we have to change it. we are pleased that the eurovelo routes have been integrated into the transeuropean networks. and as for the monster trucks, i can only say that those who buy them - 52% of freight traffic is being moved from rail to road - and those who still call this an eco-liner have really not understood what this world is about!
question for the commissioner: you said the railway was preferred. do you know that the railways have to pay for every electricity consumption, that the railways have to pay for diesel fuel, that air transport is exempt from that, which amounts to 30 billion euros every year? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's railways are not subject to the same level of charges as the railways. it is usually only applicable to trucks over 12 tonnes on motorways and is capped at height. is that why you're keeping this up? who's getting the subsidy? why can schoolchildren and students fly from one metropolis to another for the price of a taxi, but travel by train is twice or three times as expensive, and the state still collects vat? can you say something to support your assertion?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the white paper on transport was proposed by the commission to set objectives for european transport policy for the next 20 and 40 years respectively. i know, 40 years may seem like a very long time. however, it must be borne in mind that transport projects require lengthy planning phases. i therefore support the commission's far-sighted approach. let us look at the ambitious objectives of the commission, which i support: more safety through the use of intelligent transport technologies, improved transport management through multimodal solutions, the internalisation of external costs, and above all, transport must become even more environmentally friendly. there are good approaches, and i refer to the legislative proposals for clean urban transport by 2015. as far as environmental protection is concerned, i would like to stress once again that it is extremely important to continue to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. i would also like to take this opportunity to stress once again the planned expansion of the danube in the context of the development of inland waterways. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not harmed. i would like to quote my colleague mr cramer, who always says, and rightly so: ships must adapt to the flow of the river, not the other way around. i am glad to see that good amendments have been tabled here. i would like to thank the rapporteur again for being a compromise-minded colleague. in conclusion, i would like to say that i wish we had taken the 300 km approach to moving freight from road to rail. but, in principle, thank you very much and good luck!
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. why is it necessary to discuss conditions of detention in this house, in this european union? the increasing mobility of our citizens, but especially the increased cooperation between police and judiciary and joint measures such as the european arrest warrant, require trust! trust that the charter and the human rights conventions are respected throughout the eu. trust in functioning legal systems based on the principle of presumption of innocence, where punishment is punishment, not revenge or humiliation. however, many reports in recent years, as well as some judgments of the european court of human rights, made it clear: we're a long way from that. the poor conditions include overcrowded prisons, lack of contact, lack of medical care and many other issues. we urgently need common minimum standards for the conditions of detention and also for the duration of pre-trial detention. especially long periods of pre-trial detention can mean - particularly if they are not in the member state concerned - the loss of social contacts, work and isolation in detention due to language barriers. alternatives to all forms of deprivation of liberty, especially for less serious offences, must therefore be given greater consideration. the commission's green paper gives many examples. however, these must be applied much more in practice. conclusion: minimum standards of detention conditions, increased use of alternatives and special forms of accommodation for pregnant women and children are necessary steps. the european parliament has called for changes in prison conditions in the past. now we must finally take concrete steps. we are calling for this today and tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the only one to have to deal with this. i am a little surprised at the clarity with which the council and the member states here reject responsibility for standards of detention. i believe - and i think this view is very widely shared here in the european parliament - that we must work at the level of the european union to create common standards for these conditions of detention, and i think it is right that the european commission has presented a green paper on this subject, which also and particularly addresses the issue of pre-trial detention and offers perspectives on how we can create such standards within the framework of our contractual possibilities. i think mutual recognition is not something that you can just do and say, okay, we accept that there are different procedures, and they're just like that, and we send the prisoners back and forth and the evidence back and forth, and that's it. no, it can't be that! mutual recognition is something that has two sides: on the one hand, of course, this means that we recognise the procedures of the other member states and that we try to cooperate, but on the other hand it also means what we have been calling for very clearly for many, many years as the european parliament: the creation of common standards. and i ask you, especially with regard to minimum standards in criminal procedure and conditions of detention, to finally give up your opposition to these measures and to recognize that there is certainly a competence for this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the terrible way in which large parts of the cotton harvest in uzbekistan are harvested has been raised on several occasions. as a father of two children myself, i would be extremely horrified if something similar happened to my children, as is happening to many children in uzbekistan. but we all know, and we also acknowledge in our report, that we cannot change everything overnight. but i do think it is legitimate for us as the european parliament - and the commission is fortunately in agreement with us here - to demand that something has to change, at least in the approach. what we are asking for, namely that the ilo can really move freely in the country, that it can get a picture on the ground, so that we are not just relying on the unconfirmed feedback from a number of ngos, but actually getting an objective picture of the situation, is quite appropriate. we should all know that this is going to be a trial. we should not hide behind child labour, but i would like the european commission to really think about how we can help the uzbeks to get out of this situation. we all know that if this is a process that has to develop over a period of time, then we should think about how we can give very concrete assistance to the uzbek government and the uzbek people to intensify the use of technology here. that is to say, the answer cannot be to stop trade altogether, because those who cannot sell us cotton will not have the money to invest in technology to eliminate child labour, but i would like the commission to present us with a road map today, should the uzbeks finally allow the ilo observers into the country, how we can then find a realistic way in the coming years, together with the uzbeks, to help the uzbeks in the coming years to improve this problem step by step with a realistic timetable. we should not only demand, but in this case we should also make a clear and acceptable offer.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is just 20 years since the central asian states gained their state independence as a result of the collapse of the soviet union. the commission has also been active in the field of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. nevertheless, these countries are important trading partners of the eu and its member states, owing to their wealth of natural resources and raw materials. it is therefore only logical that the eu's relations with these countries should be regulated by partnership and cooperation agreements. partnership and cooperation agreements should be designed to promote cooperation and lead to partnership, but not to unilateral stigmatisation. child labour, and especially forced child labour, is a widespread evil which unfortunately still exists in many countries of the world and which must be combated. i would point out, however, that in many agricultural regions of europe it was common practice to extend the school holidays of children during the harvest season in order to give the children of farming families the opportunity to help with the harvest, which no one today would call forced labour. however, if there are any signs of forced child labour in uzbekistan in the cotton harvest, consequences must be drawn. the same consequence must then apply to all the other countries where child labour still exists, including those where we pursue economic interests of a very different order, such as india or china. we should not be double-minded here!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i thank the speakers and the commissioner for his comments. the german social democrats are also in favour of mobility and the free movement of workers in the european labour market. this is an important fundamental freedom of central importance. although the facts dispel all fears, the german government, led by the conservative-liberal camp, is also planning to deny this fundamental right to all workers in full. i think that is very revealing when you look at other policy areas in the field of european policy. unlike other countries, germany has not used the transitional periods to make the german labour market fit for europe. i have received a number of references from colleagues in germany from romania and bulgaria who tell me what methods they are employed in germany. i can tell you that's almost always borderline illegal or illegal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. it is not the influx of workers from bulgaria and romania that is creating problems, but the lack of fair conditions on the labour market. in our country, germany, this is the lack of a minimum wage, too little control of undeclared work or the fight against pseudo-independence. the principle of equal pay, equal conditions of work for equal work in the same place must therefore be implemented and uniformly applied at european level. then all workers in europe can work in mobility with dignity. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. is it 111,774 or is it 125,218 officers serving in the afghan national police? that is an open question. it is one of the problems we encounter when we look at the use of eu aid in afghanistan. this question is not unimportant, because the salaries of the afghan police are paid by the law and order trust fund for afghanistan, which was set up by the united nations development programme. and this lotfa, the law and order trust fund, is the largest recipient of aid in afghanistan. we don't know the number of officers because the afghan police databases are unreliable. so far, the european union has been sending funds to afghanistan through three channels. the way forward is for the private contractors to fulfil the contracts awarded by the european commission. there are ngos, and there are the so-called multi-donor trust funds, the largest one maintained by the un, another important one for the reconstruction of afghanistan set up by the world bank. the european union is also seeking to develop a common policy on the use of the financial system in afghanistan. the aim is to ensure the visibility of the european union in afghanistan. the aim is to support capacity building in the public administration. they should not be susceptible to corruption. they're supposed to be sustainable. they should be consistent with regional priorities, but also with government priorities. if you look at the strengths and weaknesses of the ways we transfer money to afghanistan, you realize that all of these criteria cannot be met by one way, but that each of the ways the european union uses to transfer money to afghanistan has its specific strengths, but also its specific risks. two of the important objectives, namely capacity building in public administration and alignment with government priorities, cannot be achieved at all by the paths followed so far. that is why i propose in my report that we take a fourth path, which is now being taken by many donors to afghanistan from the international community, but not yet from the european union, and that is the path of direct budgetary support for the afghan state. there are many problems with this direct aid to the afghan household. one thing has become very clear in the media reports about cash being taken out of afghanistan in cartons of dollars in the case of the same, and i am pleased to say at this point that there was very little - probably no - european money in these cartons. the americans have had to pay very expensive tuition fees with their direct budgetary aid, as has been shown by this route. but they learned their lesson. they're taking it one step at a time. they go department by department to the afghan ministries, they make sure that certain criteria are met, namely that management and control systems are in place, that there are anti-corruption mechanisms, that there is accountability to the parliament. i believe that if the european commission were to follow the same path, that is to say, a step-by-step approach, clear objectives for the afghan government that are retrievable and controllable, accountability to the afghan parliament and - i think this is very important - a truly independent afghan court of auditors, then we too can support this path. after the military withdraws, civilian help will be more necessary. we must ensure that this aid is targeted, effective and sustainable and that the funds provided by the european union are protected against corruption and waste. this is not only in the best interests of the european taxpayer, it is also in the best interests of afghanistan.
in writing. i thank mrs delli for this report. the importance of health cannot be stressed enough. according to the european agency for safety and health at work in bilbao, almost 28% of european workers say they suffer from significant health problems. this affects one in four workers in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety of workers is not compromised. we also need to develop and improve them further, because the world of work is also constantly changing. whereas in the past physical illnesses were the main occupational diseases, mental illnesses are now the main occupational diseases. this is precisely the development that needs to be studied more closely through even better health surveillance. the measures must be adapted to this. prevention also has to play a greater role. we must also remember that certain groups also need special health care. young and older workers, migrants and workers in precarious employment have been shown to be more exposed to occupational health risks. when people work without prior training or the necessary skills, the risk of illness or accident increases rapidly. we must prevent that.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr fernandes has just rightly said that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2007 and since then - unfortunately, the socialist group has not listened to the honourable member - 307 million euros have been distributed out of 2.5 billion. money alone is not the answer if you want to cope with economic crises and the consequences of globalisation. structural reforms in the labour market, economic reform, tax reform, social reform - these are the elements that you need to master globalization. do not think that money is the long-term solution to all your problems! if we think that the european globalisation adjustment fund can still be used to reward the behaviour of companies which, like nokia, move from bochum to romania and end up outside the european union and have received money in two cases, then that is the wrong approach and we will certainly not allow that to happen. mr fernandes is right, and i share his view, that the european parliament should be made the venue for national electoral campaigns. i see what happened in france. but i also believe that this is a french discussion that does not need to be held here. that is why my group will reject the oral amendment when it comes. the liberals are still represented in this house by more than 40 people. we shall therefore be able to reject this oral amendment. i would much rather see us sitting down and thinking about how, within the framework of the multiannual financial framework, we can intelligently integrate the european globalisation adjustment fund into european budgetary policy, how we can ensure more growth, more jobs, rather than using the money we have to perpetuate unemployment. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. mr rübig, i think these are exactly the proposals on which we can build. if we work together - for example with the epp, but i am quite sure that it is also possible to work together with the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats and the greens - to develop proposals on how we can finance and support smes, how we can support young entrepreneurs, how we can support start-ups and the quality in our minds, then i think we will come to a common denominator, and that is exactly the way we should go. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – madam president, actually this is the problem, and we in the committee on budgets have asked, in the reports dealing with eaggf – especially through amendments – for evaluation mechanisms to be put in place, because we as a parliament do not know exactly how many people have been reintegrated into work with the help of the european globalisation fund (maybe commissioner lewandowski knows). we know how many workers we have helped and how many redundant workers have been receiving money out of the globalisation fund, but we do not know how many have actually been reintegrated into work. just to correct one thing: i did not say that companies are doing good; i said that the european globalisation fund is actually taking away the burden from enterprises to elaborate specific social plans. this is something which worries me probably as much as it does you.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the european commission for presenting the 40th annual report on competition policy in europe, and at the same time i would like to thank my colleagues from the committees responsible for delivering opinions, ashley fox of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and mr marinescu of the epp group for their contributions to the preparation of this year's opinion on competition policy by the european parliament. we have tried to adopt the report which the commission has presented this year, under pressure of time, this year too, so that there is greater coherence between parliament's response and the commission's proposal. i am extremely grateful to all my colleagues and especially to the shadow rapporteurs in the committee for their efforts to make this possible today. the reason for this, and perhaps sometimes for a slightly greater haste, was that we seem to have included a point on paragraph 21 which was of concern for formal reasons. i would therefore ask that the vote, but only the vote, be postponed until february so that we can clarify this point for all colleagues in the interests of the cleanliness of the report. this year marks the 40th anniversary of the european commission's annual report on competition policy and european competition policy, the work of the european commission in the field of competition law, aid control is a real success for the internal market and for consumers in this internal market. i therefore believe that the european parliament must also, from time to time, give greater value to the work of the european commission and put greater emphasis on the link between the control of dominant structures on the one hand and direct benefits for consumers on the other. we did that very well at the annual conference on competition policy and consumer protection, which the polish presidency of the council held in poznań a few weeks ago, where we saw clearly that consumer protection and competition policy are two sides of the same coin. this year, we are therefore focusing on three key issues in the competition policy area of the european commission. the european parliament wants to see this report, which was adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs by a very large majority, ensure even stronger control of the state aid granted to banks since the lehman collapse in 2008. we appreciate your efforts, commissioner almunia, but we believe that during this period some banks have been saved from bankruptcy, which has not only been affected by the lehman crisis, and we therefore ask you very specifically to look very closely at this and to keep a very close eye on the criteria used by the member states for granting state aid in the banking sector. of course, it is still a little early, and of course there are new problems. we are not going to be able to do that. the second is that we have another priority, which concerns the energy sector, where consumer protection also plays a major role. we want the european commission to take a closer look at the oligopolistic structures in the energy sector, because at this point consumers often have the impression that they have few rights vis-à-vis the energy supplier and the structure of energy supply in europe still does not have the competitive character we want. thirdly, the report deals with legal issues related to the guidelines and regulation 1/2003, respectively, on the basis of which the european commission issues its fines. we hope that this proposal will be made in the near future for the mono-product businesses you mentioned, for small and medium-sized enterprises, so to speak. we very much welcome the good cooperation with the european commission in restructuring these reports to make them somewhat more readable and easier to communicate. we hope that this will help us to focus on the value of competition policy for consumer protection and for european citizens.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur and all those who have contributed to the report, because it is not routine, even if for the 40th time we have to deal with competition policy on the basis of a report from the commission. i thank the commissioner for the very comprehensive presentation. 2010 was the year in which you first assumed full responsibility for competition policy. i would like to ask you, however, - and you have just mentioned this in your contribution - to come to some sort of agreement on public aid to the banking sector, because now, as a result of the new stress test of european banking supervision, there is a renewed call for recapitalisation in the banking sector. i do not think that all this contributes to the stability of the banking system if, on the one hand, we still have a large number of old cases that have not been resolved or have not been closed and, in fact, new cases are already being created by the fact that pressure is being put to increase the equity ratio accordingly, especially in the private banking sector. i would therefore urge you, commissioner, to find a solution quickly that will also help to stabilise the banking sector so that it can meet the challenges of the international environment. the second major issue, merger control, will continue to affect us in the coming years. i can only urge that the commission continue to follow the clear and transparent path it has followed in merger control. it is in the interest of all concerned, particularly consumers, that we ensure that competition in the field of merger control is also possible in larger or other structures. in that sense, thank you very much to all who have worked here! i hope, commissioner, that we will soon find a solution, particularly in the banking sector.
i have to say, madam president, the eu's competition policy brings immense benefits to the economy and consumers, making substantial contributions to the completion of the free movement of persons, capital, goods and services. however, the environment has become more difficult in the face of the global financial crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the banking system in the member states. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has insisted that these measures be subject to strict conditions beyond 2011. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the new rules. we are calling for sanctions, such as fines, whenever there is anti-competitive behaviour. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, in particular by adopting a common position on the proposal for a directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to direct insurance other than life assurance. so are rating agencies, which tend to abuse their dominant position. the eu must be prepared to play an active role in international networks and to take a leading role in them. we have every reason to thank our group colleague, mr andreas schwab, for his ambitious report. it is a clear sign of a functioning competition.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank all the honourable members for their contributions to this debate on mr schwab's report on competition policy and on competition policy in general. i would like to repeat an idea which i mentioned in the opening speech: aid to banks, which is very important, is not something that is decided on in the european commission. the european commission has the responsibility to monitor the conditions under which such aid may be compatible and the consequences for the financial institutions receiving such aid, in terms of restructuring. it is not possible for a financial institution to receive a single public euro without submitting a restructuring plan. the commission also controls the conditions under which the effort is distributed: not only do taxpayers have to make efforts through their governments and their treasuries to restructure financial institutions; shareholders and all parties involved in the financial institution also have to contribute, and the commission ensures that this is done. all this public support, all this enormous effort, must be used to avoid distortions of competition. it is true that not everything can be done through the control of public aid. in fact, by controlling state aid in the financial system, the commission is compensating for the absence of a european authority for the resolution of crises in financial institutions. it is essential that this financial regulation should enable us to have instruments which do not exist at european level today, not even in many european countries. only the existence of state aid controls allows us to make up for this absence, but it is not possible to continue indefinitely. and of course there are many other things that we have to do to prevent the financial crisis and its consequences on banks and the real economy from being prolonged over time; that debate is very important but now is not the time to do it. a final reference to other issues which have been raised by the honourable members in the debate: the extremely important issues relating to the private application of competition policy. the commission's work programme for next year contains a proposal for a legislative initiative on this subject. the debate on collective actions is very important in relation to this private application of competition policy. we look forward to the conclusions of this parliament's debate to present our own ideas. it is very important to improve the rights of parties in any competition investigation process, and we have recently improved those rights. it is very important to pay attention to the problems of competition in certain economic sectors, and i fully agree with the ones you have mentioned: energy, telecommunications, railways, air transport, the food sector, services and financial markets. we are working intensively in all these areas, both from the point of view of abuse of a dominant position - to prevent abuse of a dominant position - and from the point of view of merger control or the fight against cartels. and, of course - and i end with this, madam president - it is very important that the rigorous application of our principles and rules on free competition not only allows us to deepen the internal market for the benefit of our citizens, but also allows us to be competitive outside and within our borders.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. first of all, i would like to thank all the members for their helpful and really valuable contributions. the shadow rapporteurs in particular have made valuable contributions in this respect. mr bielan has indicated that we are dealing with last year's report this year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i agree with mr bielan that we still have to make this permanent and that unfortunately in the rush we have made a few mistakes, and we will therefore postpone the vote until february so that we can get to paragraph 21 in such a way that it also meets all the formalities. secondly, the subject of collective redress has been raised on several occasions. i would point out that i was able to reach a good compromise with the rapporteur of the committee responsible for the legal affairs on the competition policy questions - i.e. the areas relevant to the crown witness scheme and the ensuing action - and that we can therefore also agree on a common line on the opinion of parliament. i hope that it will be possible with the shadow rapporteurs to do so as soon as possible in the new year. when ludwig erhard introduced competition policy in germany in the 1950s, based on the freiburg school, and the control of cartels and mergers, the industry was extremely critical and sceptical. it was all about the industry. today we see that industry, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, sees great advantages in this and that competition policy is therefore at the very heart of european economic policy and that is why we can only strongly support the commission and commissioner almunia in his activities.
i have to say, madam president, our colleague willy meyer, a member of my group, was violently prevented from leaving the plane by moroccan security forces on 30 october in the town of el aaiún in western sahara and was injured. the doctor diagnosed various contusions, neck muscle problems and dangerously high blood pressure as a result of the violence. this attack on a member of the european parliament is totally unacceptable. the president, the european parliament's services and the national authorities have intervened with the moroccan government. to date, there has been no response from morocco. we cannot accept this without a word. i ask for your solidarity. this unprecedented incident is an opportunity for me to remind all of us that the people of western sahara have suffered for decades from the inability of the political authorities to find a solution to the conflict in western sahara. i think we must not be silent any longer. we should be looking more closely at this question in the second half of this parliamentary term. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, pursuant to rule 177 (4) of the rules of procedure, i would like to ask, after consulting the other groups, that the vote be postponed to february so that we can get the substance of paragraph 21 right.
madam president, as coordinator of the socialist group in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i can confirm that mr schwab's proposal is a good proposal, cross-party, which we ask to support and which we will follow ourselves.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to propose a small amendment for our group to ensure that the rights of children and mothers are respected even after a conviction. we ask for an amendment to paragraph 4. i now read this in english:reaffirms the importance of granting specific protection to mother detainees and their children including through the use of alternative measures to detention in the child's best interest, and calls on member states and the commission to actively promote and support such initiatives.
i have to say, madam president, promoting and demanding the transparency of documents of the european institutions is an important building block for the participation of citizens in our policies. transparency creates trust and understanding. both are prerequisites for successful cooperation between citizens and politicians. that is why i am in favour of better access to documents for citizens. i cannot agree with mr cashman's report, however, because certain limits must be respected. for example, not every meeting of the european institutions can be made public, because that would make decision-making more difficult. there are also situations where there is discussion and deliberation and important decisions to be made. sometimes the subjects of advice themselves are also subject to secrecy in the public interest. transparency and data protection are always a tension. the report places too much emphasis on transparency and neglects data protection. i am sorry to say that i could not agree to the report.
i have to say, madam president, compared to 2005, freight traffic will increase by 40% and passenger traffic by 34% by 2030. there is a need to efficiently combine different modes of transport across borders in order to meet the requirements of safe, sustainable and environmentally friendly transport. the development of the transeuropean transport networks is particularly necessary. 75% of transport takes place on the road. the transport sector generates 10% of the european union's wealth in terms of gross domestic product and creates over 10 million jobs. although much has been achieved, the european infrastructure is still suffering from the effects of the iron curtain and there is a real need to improve transport links from east to west and north to south. in order to generate economic growth in the future, investment in infrastructure is unavoidable. that is why i have agreed to the proposal and i look forward to the changes that will now come. in that sense, thank you.
i have to say, madam president, i confess that this report has two souls in my heart. i am, of course, in favour of free movement, of a european union in which people and workers can move freely. on the other hand, we should also be constantly aware of the negative effects of this process, because it is of no use at all if these people move from one social system to another. i therefore have only one wish: that we take this process - which we all want, and i emphasize this again - into account and that we do not overlook the negative effects and simply follow up where necessary. the european union can only develop successfully if people can move freely, if they can find work in other regions and if they can contribute to economic prosperity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am also a great supporter of free movement and i think it is a very important moment for the european union that we can move freely in this single market, in the services sector, in all areas. however, there is also a principle which applies not only in the european union but also in the rule of law: pacta sunt servanda treaties must be respected. and the contract says that in the free movement of workers there is a clause of 3 years plus 2 plus 2 years. i therefore could not support this resolution today because it is only a symbol of the fact that we are supposed to change these treaties in the middle of their term. i think that the member states can decide that themselves. it's in the contracts. you did the right thing. but even when the treaties expire and all the time limits have expired, there will be no rush from other member states into the old member states. i am convinced that together we will move this european union forward and that no more barriers will be erected.
i have to say, madam president, i was very happy to approve the report on the mid-term review of the european union strategy on health and safety at work today. i would like to emphasize three points which i consider particularly important. that is the point we have voted on today. i would have preferred an even clearer signal on work-life balance, on everything that has to do with health at work and also on how we regulate work, on the rhythm we give to workers and, above all, on sunday protection. i myself have launched an initiative to this effect, and i believe that we can do everything we can to support the 3rd march next year as a europe-wide day of sunday off work. the number 16 is also very important to me. because burnout is one of the diseases that currently represents the biggest cost factor in europe. we urgently need a strategy to combat burnout, and the european commission will be publishing a study next year and is also proposing a green paper. we must urgently discuss this in europe. finally, as rapporteur for the european year 2012 for active ageing and solidarity between generations, let me say: let us work together to ensure that we all, whether workers, employees or entrepreneurs, respect health, vitality and dignity, and that we work for this in europe.
in writing. - i could not agree to the matera report which is being put to the vote today because i see in it an abuse of the globalisation fund. the dismissal of renault workers in france, which is very regrettable for the workers, is not a matter of 'globalization' but of internal company policy. the renault group is doing well economically and if they are not 'out of the blue' in some markets, it is because of internal difficulties in servicing and supplying new vehicles. in addition, renault has shifted production capacity to dacia because it is cheaper to produce in romania and plans to invest significantly abroad (e.g. in brazil). if french workers are now suffering the loss of their jobs as a result of this, that is no reason for me to reward this large group with some 25 million euros from the european budget instead of the french state taking the group into joint liability for the social security of its dismissed workers.
in writing. - we voted against the report on the recast of the regulation on public access to documents. the report goes far beyond the objective of greater transparency through better access to documents by citizens. existing legislation and interinstitutional agreements are ignored, and the protection of intellectual property, sensitive and personal data is disregarded. administrative procedures and decisions, including on personnel matters, should be published. the same applies to the protection of trade secrets and sensitive information in the context of licensing, judicial and competition proceedings. the report provides vague, unclear and far too broad definitions. a document is defined as any data or content that is related in any way to the policies, actions or decisions of all the eu institutions and bodies. this includes, to a large extent, preparatory, confidential and secret documents and all related information. the definition therefore includes not only documents but also information. the publication of information from ongoing interinstitutional proceedings, such as informal trilogues, creates public access to the procedure. this would open the door to outside influence. lobbyists would have direct access to the legislation. the report is not in the interest of our citizens. it would create a flood of useless information to increase the opacity and make our work impossible.
in writing. − i voted against the report on the revision of the regulation on public access to documents, because it goes far beyond the aim of more transparency. existing legislation and interinstitutional agreements are ignored and the protection of competition cases, sensitive and personal data is disregarded. bureaucratic procedures and decisions, which also comprise aspects regarding the staff, will be published. the same goes for intellectual property, business secrets and sensitive information in the context of admission procedures, trials and competition proceedings. the report provides woolly and vague definitions. documents are taken to mean any data or content connected in any way with the eu’s policies, measures or decisions of the bodies and institutions. this also broadly includes preparatory, confidential and secret documents as well as all related information. hence the definition comprises not only documents but also information. the publication of information about ongoing interinstitutional proceedings, e.g. informal trialogue negotiations, creates a public access to the procedure. this would open those negotiations to direct influence from outside, e.g. through lobbying. the report is not in the interests of our citizens. it would bring a flood of useless documents and information, thereby leading to less transparency and render our work impossible.
in writing. - in today's vote in plenary on the interim report on trade in uzbek textiles, i would like to stress the importance of extending the existing agreement to the textile sector in uzbekistan. i am convinced that we will achieve more with european engagement than with isolation and ultimately benefit from the agreement. uzbekistan will also benefit economically and socially from the extension of the agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i support the result of today's vote because we have succeeded in making the approvals dependent on only one main condition (the approval of an international labour organisation observer mission). i now expect that, once this condition has been met, the minutes will be approved as soon as possible.
in writing. - the situation regarding the free movement of workers has changed completely in recent years. after joining the european union in 2004, eastern european governments were still angry that some of their old members continued to deny their citizens the fundamental freedom of movement of workers by way of derogation clauses in the accession treaties. today, the eastern neighbours are scrambling to find ways of keeping skilled workers in the country. in germany in particular, where unemployment is currently falling further, an exception for low-skilled workers is no longer useful. the data show that nationals of the 'new' member states account for only about 0.7% of the labour force of the 'old' member states. in contrast, non-eu nationals make up about 5% of the eu working age population, a much higher proportion than the eu average. the situation varies from one member state to another. in germany, the figures are 1% from the 'new' member states and 7% from non-eu countries. the experience of others has also shown that the economy benefits from freedom of movement. the commission has also been able to provide a number of examples of the effects of the economic crisis on the irish economy. i will support the resolution because i am convinced that the european union and germany would benefit from freedom of movement. the concerns that initially seemed justified have not been confirmed.
in writing. − in the report on the state of implementation of the eu strategy for central asia, which we voted on today, i, as epp shadow rapporteur, explicitly advocated that strategic policy areas such as environmental protection, water and energy be tackled jointly and multilaterally. my long experience in the european parliament's delegation to central asia has taught me that it is crucial that decisions taken at summits are subsequently passed on to the national parliaments of the central asian states. the adoption of decisions at joint summits and at the highest political levels is very welcome; breaking this down to all levels and implementing it on a large scale is a big challenge. i would like to see the existing framework of the central asian delegation used to develop a dialogue with representatives of all the central asian states, sitting together at the same table. i would like to emphasize that i am not talking about the creation of new institutionalised parliamentary assemblies, but about ad hoc meetings, if they are aimed at a specific subject.
in writing. − in 2007, the eu's central asia strategy was established. no one disputes the growing role of the central asian states in the geopolitical context of their region and beyond. as economic partners, but also as states which, at the beginning of the third decade of their independence from the former soviet union, still have a long way to go in terms of democratisation, modernisation and the rule of law, they should be given our full attention. unfortunately, parliament has missed another opportunity to discuss this subject and has passed the report by mrs kiil-nielsen without debate. it draws attention to shortcomings in the implementation of a unified eu strategy towards central asia, but does not provide new impetus and seeks to 'censor' individual states on the basis of fewer criteria. i could only abstain in the vote because of these weaknesses in the report.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on azerbaijan, in particular the rafiq tagi case.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the developments in azerbaijan in the field of democracy and human rights continue to be a matter of concern to the european union. we are deeply worried abut the fact that over the last few years we have noted a trend of increasing restrictions in this domain. over recent months we have witnessed several severe actions taken by the authorities vis-à-vis organised street protests, as well as attempts to organise protests inspired by the arab spring revolutions. the detention of activists and other repressive measures against protesters are indeed deeply regrettable. this crackdown on civil society is paralleled by worsening conditions for freedom of expression in the country, while the space for independent media outlets seems to be shrinking. in the recent past several journalists have been harassed, convicted on unclear charges or physically attacked. in this context we are particularly saddened about the death of rafiq tagi on 23 november. during our recent session of the subcommittee on justice, freedom, security and human rights and democracy as well as during the eu-azerbaijan cooperation council, we made a firm call upon the azerbaijani authorities to carry out a swift and impartial investigation in this case and to bring the perpetrators of this crime to justice. the eu has a responsibility to convey clear messages on the importance of democracy, human rights and respect for the rule of law, which are cornerstones in our cooperation with azerbaijan. the level of ambition of the eu’s relationship with azerbaijan will take into account the extent to which these values are reflected in national practices and policy implementation. vice-president ashton had the opportunity to pass this message on during her visit to baku last month. in this context i would also like to recall the joint declaration of the warsaw eastern partnership summit, where all participants committed to respect the values of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. of course i also welcome the role of the european parliament in advocating democratic values to the partners in azerbaijan.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation of women in afghanistan and pakistan. see minutes
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not both countries are very different, even though they are neighbors. but the differences within countries are even greater. pakistan had a female head of government long before germany. afghanistan is not there yet, but at least they have female provincial governors. but there are regions and tribal areas in both countries where women still cannot go to school or to the doctor. and these stark differences within countries can only be overcome by patient reforms, not ideology. in this respect, our afghan operation has also failed. he was driven by the idea of being able to cross thousands of years in a single leap. that's not possible. this was not possible in europe, and it is even more so in the hindu kush. we must get used to the fact that these countries have their own development, that they need patience and sustained support, and that we cannot fundamentally change societies by military intervention or the push of a button.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to first of all address the afghanistan issue. on the occasion of the recent bonn conference, the eu, together with the international community, highlighted again the importance it attaches to upholding the rights of women. vice-president ashton, together with secretary of state, hillary clinton, met a group of afghan women at the beginning of the conference. they are a real inspiration to all of us. while the eu supports an afghan-led reconciliation process, it remains particularly important to safeguard and expand on the progress afghanistan has made in the field of human rights, and rights of women in particular, since 2001. the situation of afghan women in this society often remains precarious. the eu brings up the issue directly with the government of afghanistan whenever appropriate and makes its position clear through public statements – for instance the statement on women’s shelters in afghanistan of february 2011. it has also reconfirmed its position in the council conclusions of last july and again in november. increased access to justice and legal aid services for women affected by family violence is a very important element of the eu’s assistance, while progress across the board will depend on broader reforms of afghanistan’s justice institutions. the eu is closely involved in this sector and supports afghan efforts in this respect in the context of the kabul process. regarding pakistan, promotion of women’s rights is a priority for the eu and member states’ engagement with pakistan. although progress depends on action by the government of that country, the eu and member states can exercise influence through engagement and dialogue with the authorities, by supporting measures which address women’s human rights and by assisting access to justice. among many human rights concerns faced by women in pakistan, violence is one of the most serious issues to address. the eu consistently uses its political dialogue with pakistan to raise issues relating to the rights of women. a long-term objective is to ensure effective implementation of the un convention for elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, of which pakistan is a signatory. in the short term the eu is supporting measures to ensure implementation of legislation in pakistan to outlaw all forms of violence against women and ensure support for victims of violence.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the next debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on tunisia: the case of zakaria bouguira.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the bouguira case is typical of the situation in north africa. on the one hand, there are repressive forces in many countries - the state apparatus and the army - which are still trying to exercise power in the brutal way they are accustomed to. on the other hand, there is the deep uncertainty of those who no longer know what is legitimate and what is not, and who do not know when to intervene and when not to. this is a normal situation after the fall of dictatorships. add to this the difficulty of not knowing where these countries are headed. the opposition movement knew what it did not want, but we do not know what the future of these countries will be and should be. that's why they need our help, but not our patronage. it is crucial - and this is what we must concentrate on - that we think in partnership about what we want to offer these countries in terms of political education, the development of vocational training, the promotion of smes, a common energy policy, for example in the field of solar energy and other renewable energies, and cooperation between smes. we have a wide range of tasks. that's why it's not paternalism, it's partnership.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in this case, until proven otherwise, we should assume that the new tunisian authorities are no longer covering up for the conduct of their police forces as they have in the past. we shall see if that is the case when zakaria bouguira brings the case. we hope that disciplinary or criminal proceedings will be initiated against the police forces responsible. this would also have a good preventive effect for everyone else, who would then know that they could no longer deal with the citizens in the old way. the european union has now made a very broad offer to the tunisians with our eu-tunisia action plan, which will be presented shortly, and in this context we should give a wide margin to the area of security sector reform.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, concerning the individual case of mr zakaria bouguira, the eu, through our delegation in tunis, is closely following what happened with him. we are in contact with his family, and the case has been formally raised with the competent authorities: the minister of the interior and the minister of justice. a judicial procedure has finally been opened, and we will follow its development. more generally, this case shows the urgency for tunisia to move more resolutely towards democratic transition and ensure the independence of the judiciary, a proper reform of the security sector, freedom of the media and better democratic governance. at the political level, the eu has expressed to the tunisian authorities its willingness to support democratic reforms and will continue to do so in the future. we are also determined to translate these political commitments into concrete cooperation activities. with this aim in mind, an ambitious programme in support of the reform of the judiciary is currently in preparation. in addition, in response to a request from the minister for the interior, we are currently discussing the possibility of a peer review of the security sector as a first step towards increased dialogue and cooperation in this very sensitive sector. in both cases, civil society will be duly consulted in the preparation of the programmes. we are also finalising a technical facility, which will allow us to support a wide range of activities in the field of democratic transition and governance. in parallel to this dialogue with the authorities, we are reinforcing our support for tunisian civil society. as experience has shown, in order to succeed, a democratic transition needs strong political will from the authorities but also an effective and organised civil society. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate to this parliament the determination of the eu to support democratic transition in tunisia. it is in this framework that we want to have an open dialogue with the tunisian authorities, also to express our concerns, as is the case today in terms of what happened to mr zakaria bouguira.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place now. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i am not going to go into detail. we're in the last session of the year. i should like to thank you for the good cooperation, also on behalf of my colleagues the vice-presidents. i wish you a safe journey home. i wish you a blessed christmas, a restful time between the years, a good start to the new year and a return to brussels in the old style in the second calendar week. i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
