for the edf group. madam president, the world's forests are the lungs of the world and we must do everything we can to protect them. at a time of rapidly growing world population and thus of a general increase in the need for resources, of the exodus of jobs to distant parts of the world and of economic crisis, i would prefer that we in the eu use more european wood than that we import exotic wood from countries where it is difficult to control illegal logging and where we cannot control corruption. when we clear tropical forests, we reduce biodiversity in the area, contribute to the extinction of many endangered species and change the climate. and that's totally unnecessary! especially when there are excellent alternatives. because if we learn to cut more forests in europe and use more european wood, these problems will disappear. why do we need rainforest wood for our garden tables, or why are exotic park floors smarter than eu wood floors? but having said that, and since i cannot stop the use of exotic and tropical wood by european citizens, it is important that the agreements in question be adopted. it is important that we help to ensure better control of the timber products and the timber we import. we must try to protect ourselves against corruption, which is extremely difficult, and this is reflected in the agreements. i therefore have no illusions that this will eliminate all illegal logging in cameroon or the congo - unfortunately! i'd have preferred to see binding agreements instead of volunteers. but it is clear that voluntary agreements are better than no agreements at all, and that is why i support them. in general, however, i hope to see more initiatives to protect the world's forests, especially in the case of eu agreements with countries from problem areas of the world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank the belgian presidency for its efforts, particularly in the two areas i know best: budget and transport. it was not because of the presidency that the budget negotiations broke down in the first place, and we found a solution for the 2011 budget. let us hope that the question of flexibility and financing of the iter fusion energy project will soon be settled. in the field of transport, the belgian presidency found a solution to the difficult question of the euro vignette. i would particularly like to thank the belgian presidency for its support for a cause i have been working for for many years, namely that we create a network of safe resting places in europe so that the truck drivers who literally hold europe together and create the single market can work in good and safe conditions. i would like to see all the governments of other countries be inspired by the positive attitude of the belgian government on this matter so that we can finally make something happen.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would say that the belgian presidency has been a wonderful example of how the european union works, without comparison. despite the fact that the country has not had a government, the presidency is still receiving praise from all sides of this house. this may be a picture of how the eu really works best without elected representatives and in fact without people at all. it is in any case under the belgian presidency that the greatest deception, the greatest failure of the peoples of europe since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has become a reality, namely the introduction of the now permanent crisis mechanism. when it was necessary to convince the europeans that the lisbon treaty was in place, that unprecedented power was to be transferred to strangers in brussels, one thing was promised that at least one thing could not happen: that we would never be responsible for each other's debts. it is under the belgian presidency that this one promise has been broken. now, as of 2013, we have a permanent act that means we're going to be accountable to each other permanently for all time to come. that is what is left of the belgian presidency, and that is sad.
mr president, i would like to thank you. parliament has today formally chosen to recognise agriculture as a strategic sector for food security. we liberals have recognized that for many years. we also recognise that agriculture is a strategic sector for food quality, public health, sustainable and economic growth. but that does not justify school programmes for fruit and milk. nor for several market-supported milk aid schemes. we should point out that we voted against these proposals and regret that they were passed. but that should not spoil the overall picture of our giving farmers good conditions. but sandwich mountains and wine lakes and school programs are not the way forward. the farmer's income must not be secured by intervention and market distortion. instead, we must invest in research, we must enable farmers to exploit new technologies for alternative sources of income. overall, we think the report is good and that is why we voted for the overall result.
mr president, i would like to thank you. no sick person wants to go to a foreign country if the treatment is as good as it is in his own country. but, having said that, this proposal is the best that can be achieved. we see that the financing model has changed and that national health systems are not being undermined, while patients are getting better access to treatment in other eu countries. patients may be more likely to seek treatment in another country if, for example, the expertise and treatment options are not available in their home country. this is important when we are talking about extremely rare diseases that require very specialised expertise. if we can concentrate the treatment of such rare diseases in a few places in the eu, patients' chances of recovery will be much greater, as doctors who use their professional competence often are better able to achieve good results. this should not mean that the member states are abandoning their health systems, as the text states. i thank you, mr president, and i thank commissioner dalli and the rapporteur. thank you for your efforts.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i shall now turn to commissioner dalli. here you see the plastic fog that we're talking about. it is the large multinational pharmaceutical industry which has said in the german case that plastic molds and medicine go together. here you see the medicine. it's got to have the big test! the plastic mist is equivalent to using a needle. but it is clear that the pharmaceutical industry is making a lot of money by having to sell these two products together. society, on the other hand, saves a lot of money by being able to recycle and recycle and recycle. i think it is a scandal that the commission continues to insist that this simple product be subjected to the same extensive testing procedure as if it were necessarily part of the same testing system as the medicinal product. not quite the same as the medicine itself, i know, but still as a device that belongs there. it is simply so terrible that we have not had a clear answer to this question! there are so many people, including many communities and health insurance companies, who are suffering because this simple plastic thing hasn't been approved for a long time. it has never caused any problems other than economic... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission. - madam president, i have to speak. many thanks to commissioner potočnik for finally showing some consistency on the part of the commission. i would strongly encourage that to be made visible as well. i have high hopes for the response we are going to get today, because if nothing clear is done now and if there are any harsh fines against italy, we will be faced with this problem in many more places. it is not only in italy that there are major waste problems. if you get the impression that nothing is happening by using only landfills, then we have a very big disaster. so i look forward to that answer. i should like to spend the rest of my speaking time addressing italy. i know that the italian government is not directly represented here, but it is important that italy itself should now begin to say that this problem must be solved now. you have this wonderful country, and it is drowning in waste, and many conflicts are arising, and the situation has almost only got worse. italy must not now be faced with a situation in which the population is subjected to additional burdens in the form of fines. on the contrary, we must ensure that a credible plan is put into effect and then use the many active citizens as part of the solution instead of making them the target of criminalisation and so on. we cannot solve the waste problem unless we have the citizens with us, and there are many citizens who can do a really good job in italy. so use the military and police not to crush the citizens, not to keep local authorities out - but to catch the real criminals. it is partly the large industry in northern italy that is profiting greatly from being able to dispose of waste in a cheap way instead of paying what it costs. and it's partly the gangsters in the mafia who also make big profits. it must stop now and i hope that italy will start to take this seriously!
the commission. - madam president, when a delegation from the committee on budgetary control visited italy last autumn, we met the president of the campania region. when we asked him why the catastrophic waste situation in campania had not yet been resolved, he replied that it was a political problem! that answer explains a lot. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but no, the problem was political. the problem is that there is no political will! it is because of a lack of political will that italy has failed to fulfil its obligations under the waste directive. it is because of a lack of political will that it was possible to conclude in october that none of the improvements demanded by the court of justice of the european union had been implemented. and it is because of a lack of political will that the eu had still not received a waste sorting plan at the turn of the year. on the other hand, we have seen that the authorities have had the political will to cover up the scandals by using security stamps. that is why we in our group have a clear position. we all support the many good italian men and women who are fighting for transparency in this matter and for those responsible for this situation to be held to account. but we also believe that, before that happens, we must reject outright the idea that european taxpayers should give even one euro more to the waste adventure in italy! good money should not be thrown away for bad.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to comment on a matter which has already been quite full this morning. it's the media law in hungary. this case, mr orbán, is not about hungary or hungarian domestic policy, it is about the fundamental rights of the eu and our credibility abroad. the freedom of the press is threatened throughout the union if hungary is given a politically appointed media council and fines in the millions. mr orbán, i am part of a young european generation which may have taken freedom of the press for granted, and today i can understand that it is not a given. i welcome your promise to revise the law if it is contrary to eu laws and treaties, and i believe, mr orbán, that you can go home today and make revisions. you owe it to all those who have fought for fundamental rights and freedom of the press, and you owe it to my generation, which has never known anything else. i believe that in the eu we must develop democracy, not destroy it.
i have to say, madam president, today we have reached a historic compromise with the patients directive. i think that is the most historic agreement in my time in this parliament. a historic compromise cemented between two parties which have been too far apart for too long, namely parliament on the one hand and the council on the other. now, through hard work, we have managed to secure a compromise that is beneficial to patients, which is protected against unreasonably long waiting times, while at the same time we have found a balance that ensures that the member states have medical and financial control over what is happening. it is a very, very good result that has been achieved here today for the benefit of patients and for the benefit of the member states. i think that there is reason to congratulate the negotiators first and then, of course, congratulate the european people most of all on the result of the vote here today.
i have to say, madam president, we are again faced today with a case brought forward by non-elected representatives, namely the european court of justice, which, by a series of decisions, has created or put pressure on the genuinely elected institutions to also draft the directive which has been voted on today. i would say that there is, of course, something fundamentally appealing about improving the opportunities for europeans to have access to proper health care. but the problems created by this directive clearly outweigh the benefits it brings. what do you do, for example, if the pressure on a country's health system becomes so great that the waiting lists become unmanageable? what do you do if, with a pre-approval, but still, if doctors start sending people to a certain country in droves? it could be denmark, where i come from, germany, the netherlands or another eu country where health care is known to be of high quality. this means that the citizens of the country in question are put at the back of the queue or at least they are not allowed to be given preferential treatment, even though they are the ones who have paid more than the tax to get proper health care. i would therefore like to make it clear that the disadvantages, the potential disasters, which this directive may create in the national health systems clearly outweigh the benefits which the honourable members are mentioning.
i have to say, madam president, free trade is really the only way to prosperity. we have seen this in the single market among the eu countries and it is undoubtedly true for the developing countries as well. it is the only real development initiative we can and should actually put into practice. if we look around the world, how the other major regions are moving, making deals, looking strategically at their partners, we can see that everyone is moving faster and faster. we have a large free trade area between north and south america, the asean countries, asia, mercosur, etc. the only area that is left behind, paralysed by the challenges of globalisation, is the european union. although i support the report voted on today, i would say that a free trade initiative with fiji and papua new guinea is hardly the most impressive result one could have expected after so many years of negotiations. what about china? what about the united states? what about india? all those who are currently taking all our jobs? is the eu failing the european workers here too?
i have to say, madam president, serbia is probably the european country which has been the most tormented in the last thousand years of history, first by the turks, then by the germans and the russians. we now have the opportunity to turn what has been seen as a bad time both in the long historical perspective and in the history of recent years into a bright future. there is no doubt that from belgrade, nato with its massacre of the capital and the eu with its barbaric support for the tearing away of a key part of serbia (namely kosovo) are not particularly appetizing comrades. but they're comrades. they're friends, and you know it. that is why it is important to have the marriage of reason that will enable us to put the past behind us and look ahead. and that is why my party supports the continuation of this dialogue.
in writing. - as regards amendment no 6, point 23, point 3, we believe that it should always be up to each member state to decide whether to issue a visa to a third country national. in the case of a work visa, the work should always be carried out under the same conditions as if it had been carried out by a union citizen in the member state concerned. we also call for a more precise definition of the wording: 'nurses' or in similar professions;'.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when i read the commission's communication on the arctic, i think for some reason of a cat licking its mouth at the prospect of a bowl of cream! and yes, global warming and the melting of the arctic are opening up a lot of new opportunities: natural resources, oil, fish, shipping, and so on. we heard. but i think it is important that the eu should be given a cold shower of encouragement, because the eu has no coastline along the arctic ocean! as a dane, i find it a bit pathetic when denmark is used as one of the alibis for the eu's arctic roots. the fact is that denmark's only connection to the arctic is via greenland, which voted to leave the european union in a referendum 26 years ago. the eu should also be cold-blooded in its attitude towards iceland. the decision on iceland's membership must be taken by the icelandic people alone and without pressure from the eu. and there is nothing, nothing to suggest that there is a majority here for eu membership. so instead of seeing ourselves as a potential arctic superpower, perhaps the eu should recognise its geographical location and instead work towards good neighbourliness with the countries that actually lie in the arctic. this applies, among others, to our friends in the western nordic countries, norway, iceland, greenland and the faroe islands. it should be the task of the european parliament, in particular, to ensure this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this report has fine words about climate concerns and environmental considerations, but it is really about the eu's hunt for resources in the arctic. this refers to the expected amount of oil, gas, minerals, forests and fish that the eu will be able to exploit in the near future. it says here that the eu has large areas of land in sweden and finland, not that they are swedish and finnish areas. it also states that the union has exclusive competence for the conservation of marine biological resources. i am not sure that the greenlandic, russian and canadian inuit agree on this. just because the arctic is sparsely populated, it's not a rooftop! the area cannot tolerate mass tourism, predatory fishing and massive exploitation of raw materials. the arctic is a highly sensitive area with a long tradition of cooperation, and most of the arctic countries are not members of the eu at all. greenland did in fact actively withdraw from the eu, as mr søndergaard has already mentioned.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank you for the opportunity to comment on the agreement reached today between the eu and libya, in which i must say that something is sorely lacking. it is strange to see how the element which probably means the most to europeans is completely omitted from this report, namely the fact that libya is acting as a huge transit country for illegal immigrants coming into europe from all over africa, from asia, from large parts of the world. it is well known that the european union is the magic land. the country whose streets are full of money and honey is therefore a huge magnet for countless people who want to escape from the prison, the poverty and the misery of their own countries. and it is obvious that the very fact that libya, together with other north african countries, is acting as a transit country is a huge challenge for us in the eu. it should have played a much greater role in the discussion we have had with the libyan authorities, a much greater role in relation to the demands we are making to prevent this pressure on europe's borders. it is good that we have started a dialogue, but it is unfortunate that the dialogue is not allowed to deal with the essential issues.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i share the concerns and the considerations expressed by previous speakers. there is one element in this report, however, which has in fact received too little attention. that is paragraph 7, condemning the way in which the turkish authorities are acting in northern cyprus. the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity, and it is not only a political entity, but it is also a political entity. we see how the greek cypriot inhabitants who want to return to their churches, their monasteries, their holy buildings in northern cyprus are harassed when they want to enter, are prevented from entering and even from restoring their churches, are prevented from entering and taking back property that is rightfully theirs. what we are really experiencing in northern cyprus is a violent discrimination and oppression of christians, which is directly supported by a candidate country to the european union, namely turkey. this is unacceptable and therefore, in accordance with paragraph 7, the european parliament should take the consequence and recommend that the negotiations with turkey be suspended, at least until the situation in northern cyprus is settled.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is no doubt that belarus is europe's sick child, and it is right that we take every opportunity to criticize the regime as the fortunately last communist dictatorship. there is a danish proverb that says that you should not throw stones if you live in a glass house, and therefore there is perhaps also reason to look at what the eu looks like from belarus. the european union is governed by a commission of officials without any popular mandate, and it is only this commission of people without a movement or a reference or a mandate from the people that can make proposals. once the proposals are put forward and adopted, who then ultimately decides with enormous political influence how the member states are to be affected by eu legislation? it is not the people who are elected, it is the judges who sit at a comfortable distance from reality. the same can be said of this parliament, where the vast majority feel quite comfortable in the glass palaces in which they have been placed, completely without reference and understanding of the enormous concern, resistance and movement that exists in the european populations. looking at the eu from belarus, there can be many frightening similarities with the dictatorships we are trying to fight.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is no doubt that european competitiveness is under immense pressure. the question must be asked whether there is any real will among the member states to do anything about it. one thing, of course, is that a currency, a common currency, has been created which is destructive to the whole economy of southern europe. one thing is that the majority of countries are not keeping up and are totally lacking in the reforms that are necessary if we are to survive in the future competition with china and india and south america and so on. but even in the areas which one would consider low-hanging fruit, such as the easy things, it is impossible to reach agreement. for example, an initiative as open as the european patent. it is a disaster that even in this area, which is only a matter of technicalities, no agreement has been reached, and it is an example of how ineffective the european union is. in an area that could so easily have given so much, because of language differences, it has not even been possible to reach agreement. it is perhaps more than a thousand words to say what a false basis this whole cooperation is based on.
in writing. - we support the conclusion of the geneva agreement on trade in bananas between the eu and a number of latin american countries and the united states. in this context, we support the idea that the main acp banana exporting countries will receive additional support, in addition to regular eu aid, in the form of the so-called 'banana accompanying measures' (bam). we are against increasing eu aid to eu producers affected by the agreement (paragraphs 19 + 20 of the proposal) and we believe that eu agricultural aid should be phased out in general.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. few people in 2006 were aware that they were helping to adopt a very important tool to lift the eu out of the crisis that was just around the corner. with the potential to increase eu gdp by up to 1.5% and to create a lot of new jobs, it is fair to say that this adoption has helped to take a quantum leap towards the free movement of services. today, in 2011, everyone can see that we are facing a crisis of some magnitude, and therefore it is of course also very regrettable that several member states still do not implement essential parts of the directive. that is why this report comes at a very opportune time. it is contrary to common sense to counteract the momentum of growth that this represents, and it is detrimental to the good students in the class, including my own country, who have seen the wisdom and the benefit of implementing quickly and efficiently and correctly. so much for the singing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i think that the report has succeeded in avoiding the political battles of the past, and that is important because we have plenty of other things to do. let me just mention three things: firstly, it is important to draw on our experience of the screening process and the mutual evaluation process, both of which are an asset because they can be applied to other directives in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, it is of course important to promote administrative cooperation, not least through imi, as has been mentioned a few times. and thirdly, it is important - as has been mentioned by most - to develop the so-called 'points of single contact' into a comprehensive 'egovernment centre' which can ease the administrative burdens for service companies with export ambitions. finally, i would like to thank mrs gebhardt and the other rapporteurs for their exceptionally good cooperation on this matter. i think we have succeeded in reaching some reasonable compromises on a difficult text.
mr president, i would like to thank you. just a little addition to my first comment. since we are many speakers who have pointed out that there are countries which have not yet got their 'points of single contact' under control, i would like to make a direct appeal to the commissioner to intervene personally when you are now on a tour of all these countries and to make sure that you stress once again to the member states that these 'points of single contact' must be provided. there must be order. i do not want to be an expert on how to put additional pressure on those member states which have not done so, but i very much hope that you as commissioner will personally put yourself in the position of putting pressure on those countries. i think it is scandalous, quite frankly, that now, at 14 months, there are still countries which have not implemented.
for the edf group. mr president, we are facing some important and necessary revisions of the limit values for nuclear exposure to food. i am in favour of proposals that ensure the best possible protection of citizens, including in the field of medical devices. we must therefore of course make use of all new scientific data available and update the limit values accordingly. because of course we need a high level of health protection in the eu. the treaty of lisbon makes it possible to adopt common measures in the veterinary field for the monitoring of food and feed safety standards, which are directly aimed at protecting public health, and this is welcome. it is very worrying that the eu is now operating with higher thresholds than the usa. radiation is no less dangerous to people, animals and crops in europe than in the united states. in general, this proposal shows how important it is that we establish clear procedures and upgrade the old standards. so thank you to the rapporteur for these good and important amendments.
for the ppe group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank commissioner tajani for his speech. the reason why we have chosen to raise this issue today is that it is more important than ever to focus on the financing of our small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. there can be no doubt that the limited access of smes to finance is a major obstacle to growth and the creation of new businesses, and this has been reinforced during the current economic crisis. it has become much more difficult to find adequate financing in europe's banks. european smes are highly dependent on bank financing, especially in relation to us companies. in addition, we are facing the implementation of the basel iii rules, i.e. a new capital requirements directive, which must be implemented. it is a matter of concern to the commission, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us an answer to that question. it is regrettable that the increasingly capital and risk-sensitive banking sector is now demanding higher collateral and higher risk premiums. both result in inadequate funding and lost business opportunities, which in turn ultimately means job losses. europe needs to increase its competitiveness. there is therefore a need to strengthen the eu instruments which can help to increase investment, innovation and the development of smes, and i would like to call for an increase in budgetary resources for innovative financing and for the instruments we already know. the commission must ensure that the next generation of programmes places much greater emphasis on mezzanine financing, and that the sme support measures we already know at present, such as the competitiveness and innovation framework programme (cip), the structural funds, the 7th research programme, etc., are better coordinated. and so it can only be said that this is a matter which parliament will be paying close attention to in the months ahead.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. i also agree with what has been said about the importance of building up these cord blood banks for both research and treatment. these stem cells are easy to obtain if you are prepared for them, and i personally do not even think that they should be treated as a transplantation issue. i think that it is quite simple to take it and then the parents can object to it, but they do not have to give their consent. i think that aspect is less important. i think it is important, however, that we - apart from the safeguards that mr liese has mentioned - remember that we do not yet know very much about the possibilities for development in this field. that is why it is important that we have these banks. i think that the first thing to be done is to make sure that banks are public, because they are something that can be used for each other. it will be by far the largest application, that you use it to treat other people. but it is also important to point out that there are traps here. we have seen examples of parents being made to pay for some kind of security for their child, so that they can have a 'spare part' for the child put in the bank and thus end up paying unnecessarily. it is quite rare that you will have to treat your own child in this way and i certainly believe that the motive for building this up must be mainly general research and general treatment. that's got to be the opening we're betting on. yes, i do feel a little bit that you can almost fool the parents if you think they're going to invest a lot in their own child's safety. they have to invest cord blood in the common security, and i very much hope that we will have greater accessibility. it is a pity that such a great deal of material as we have at the moment is simply being wasted because there is too little attention around it.
i have to say, madam president, long-distance bus passengers have roughly the same rights as air, rail and sea passengers in relation to delays, cancellations, lost luggage and a host of other areas. and that's basically fine. but i would like to make a few critical remarks. people with mobility impairments have been given more rights here. however, not all buses can accommodate both disabled and normal passengers at the same time, and not all buses can be converted to disabled driving. so there is still a long way to go in this area if we want to achieve the greatest possible equality. the price of long-haul tickets is usually reduced to the lowest possible level in order to compete with air traffic. i therefore regard all these claims and rights as being beyond the means of the smaller bus companies. their competitive opportunities will be severely curtailed and they will be threatened with closure. this is hardly in the union's interest, since the eu is very keen to support small and mediumsized enterprises.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. politicians from certain countries, for whom their own language is the most important thing in the world, have claimed that we are destroying the internal market in this area by entering into enhanced cooperation. it is an absurd claim, all the while, that we do not have a single market in the common patent. it costs about ten times more to obtain a patent in the eu than in the us, and this corresponds to an annual turnover of eur 250 million for our companies. it is therefore good that we finally voted for enhanced cooperation today, so that certain countries can no longer wait. enough is enough! we are not at the finish line, but in one day we have already made a bigger move today than we have in the last ten years.
for the edf group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. unfortunately, we are seeing more and more counterfeit medicines on the market in our member states. that is why this proposal is so important. eu patients need to know how to avoid counterfeit medicines. they also have a right to see us as legislators fighting to avoid these products. it is important that we adopt clear definitions. all too often we pass legislation that is imprecise and unclear. it can't happen in a case as important as this. medicines must be checked before they are put on the market, not for years after the patients have actually been lab rats. we must ensure that medicines are only imported if they are of the highest safety and control quality. the falsification of medicines harms both the patients of the member states and the pharmaceutical companies. i hope therefore that we can agree on a stricter line than the one proposed by the commission, and i thank mrs marisa matias for her incredible work.
member of the commission. − in a week’s time we have a meeting with the russian government, and investment policy issues will certainly be discussed, because there are arguments on both sides. russia also argues that some of its investments are not much appreciated in the european union, so there are ongoing negotiations. at the same time, i can clearly say that in the last year relations on quite difficult issues have started to improve: there has been more openness on the russian side to discuss issues in depth and in detail. i believe, nevertheless, that relations should build on the agreement, and that the new agreements i have mentioned that will follow the pca should have very strong investment protection clauses. that is the only way we can really avoid having situations where one side accuses the other side of not playing by the rules. the current political dynamic is giving rise to much hope that we can conclude this agreement, and include relatively strong provisions in it. it is very clear that in the last year there have been some fundamental positive shifts in our relations.
member of the commission. − this is a very pertinent question on an issue which the commission takes very seriously and is therefore following closely and with great concern. the commission is a very strong supporter of the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria. the fund has been very successful and it is my full intention to work with the fund to solve the issues as soon as possible in order for the commission to continue to be one of the biggest contributors to the fund. it is important to underline that the problems identified did not arise from the fund itself, but in individual countries from the people contracted to implement the programmes. these are countries where very careful attention always has to be paid to avoid such problems. it is public knowledge that the office of the inspector general of the global fund has been conducting enquiries in respect of the use of usd 4.8 billion in 33 countries. these enquiries have taken place either on a systematic basis or in response to information received on the potential misappropriation of funds. its inquiry is now complete; in line with common practice, the oig has issued a report and published it on the website of the global fund. this practice has proven effective and transparent in implementing the global fund’s stated policy of zero tolerance of corruption. for our part, the commission has commissioned an independent five-pillar audit of the global fund, as required under european union financial regulations for all organisations benefitting from eu financial support. the audit report delivered in november 2010 expressed the auditors’ overall conclusion that the global fund’s internal control environment respects the principles of division of responsibilities and of management control of country and regional financial reporting. so standard mechanisms and controls are in place to ensure that funds received from donors are properly handled. however, the auditors made several suggestions to improve the management of funds in addition to existing risk management strategy. following this report, my services are currently discussing the needed modifications designed to improve and speed up the global fund reform agenda approved on 4 january. we are also undertaking a second audit mission, including country visits, to follow up on the institutional assessment. through a letter dated 27 january 2011 and a teleconference on 2 february, i have already contacted the executive director of the global fund, mr kazatchkine, to express the urgent need for additional reforms to further strengthen the fund’s ground management processes and operations. in the meantime, during the board meeting called on 2 february, the secretariat of the global fund proposed an external review to be carried out by the global fund oversight mechanism. this was welcomed by board members. so in reply to your question as to whether the commission has considered halting eu funding to the global fund, i would inform you that the commission has notified the global fund executive director and the board members that the eu contributions are being put on hold. in parallel, i consider that the european union and the commission in particular must maintain its overall commitment to the global fund objectives, reform process and strategy of alignment to country and health systems. in this respect, the commission is identifying clear criteria to apply before further contributions to the global fund can be resumed. these measures for ensuring prevention and detection of fraud have no implication in the delivery of vital treatment to the patient, but at the same time understand that we need to have in place new, strengthened control mechanisms very fast because as time passes indefinitely holding on to payments is not the best option. we need additional strengthened control mechanisms at country level which will decrease the risk of misappropriation of the funds and can then resume payment. the commission will, as i said, remain a keen supporter of the fund because the fund has achieved fantastic results, but there has been fraud and we need to deal with that fraud appropriately.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his support for the fund, but also for his firm hand in dealing with what has happened and for taking the matter very seriously. my specific question to the commissioner is what timetable he expects for the freezing of funds for the fund. how soon does he expect to find a solution to the problems? according to the foundation, some of the people who have been cheating have been arrested. it's been tampered with. i would like to know what timeframe he expects for the cash flow to be restored.
i have to say, madam president, there is a lot of talk about economic responsibility in europe these days, and economic responsibility is quite often identified with cuts in public spending and quite rarely with an improvement in the employment situation. i think we have to ask ourselves what is really economically responsible. we greens see a very great contradiction in the policies being pursued in europe and in the member states at the moment. on the one hand we can see the annual growth survey and we can see the european semester leading to fewer jobs and less growth in europe. and on the other hand, we say in the eu 2020 and in the employment guidelines that we want to create more and better jobs. it doesn't make any sense. it is a fact that we have 23 million unemployed in europe. we have 5.5 million unemployed young people under 25. we have more and more working poor. the figures are increasing and the economic policies being pursued are not improving the situation. i think it is very crucial if we are to create new jobs in europe that we actually implement the europe 2020 and the employment guidelines into economic policies. it would be financially responsible, but i doubt it will happen.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the court of justice of the european union recently ruled that germany must be more transparent and open about its occupational pensions. i had a lot of expectations that this was a judgment that would have a contagious effect on other countries in europe. unfortunately, this did not happen, and the commission has not been willing to take action against other countries which restrict their people to certain pensions. it is therefore also important that the european parliament has now established that there must be profitability for citizens in their pension systems. there must be transparency about costs and returns, and then we must remove the barriers to mobility across borders. these are all good and sound liberal principles, but if you take the consequences of this into account, it should also be the case that you can move your pension from one fund to another if the unemployment fund or the pension fund you have been instructed by your union or employer is not doing its job properly. we did not get that far this time, but we did take a step forward today, and i think that is good for the internal market and for the ability of citizens to get a proper return on their pensions.
mr president, i would like to thank you. yes, it's a little strange to stand here as a bourgeois-liberal all the way to the leg and be accused of being left-wing. but you have to experience it. this is not about being left or right at all; this is about freedom of the press. and i cannot understand why my good colleagues from the ppe group want to take up the debate in this way. i think that's a little pathetic. this is not about hungary either; this is about freedom of the press. and i am glad and i would like to acknowledge that the hungarian government has answered the questions that have been put so well. that said, there are still problems, and we have been pointing this out throughout the alde group. we're still having trouble with a government-appointed media council that's supposed to assess whether or not there's balanced coverage. we still have problems with having a commission which should be the guardian of the treaty and deal with the problems of the hungarian media law. i hope the commissioner will do the same. i am responsible for what we are going to do now and i am responsible for the fact that the commissioner has raised the question of an independent council. i welcome that on our behalf and i would like the commissioner to perhaps elaborate a little on what that council is to deal with.
for the edf group. mr president, tomorrow we are voting on the free trade agreement with korea, and it has been a long time coming! most of us would agree that this is a win-win situation. it will be of particular benefit to europe's farmers and businesses. but we must not ignore the fact that the agreement does not only benefit european companies and korean farmers. some sectors will gain from the agreement, while others will inevitably lose. in the future, eu citizens will therefore be able to buy cheaper technical products and cars from korea. in return, korea receives much-needed food from europe, as well as medicines and luxury goods. in addition, the agreement can lead to better environmental and labour conditions in korea - this is worth noting and welcoming. i hope that the agreement can enter into force quickly, especially because the eu will have a first-mover advantage over the usa, which is also negotiating a similar agreement with korea. finally, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs involved for their tireless and highly qualified work.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think it is a very good agreement that has been concluded here today, and i can only regret that some people have thought that by saying no to the agreement, inefficient european companies can be protected. south korea is the 15th largest economy in the world and the third largest in asia. we see that there are better and better opportunities for exporting. we have a country with a good economic growth, 50 million inhabitants and increasing purchasing power. the agreement opens up the possibility of europe becoming even better in certain service sectors where we are highly competitive: telecommunications, the environment, shipping, financial and legal services. i would also like to point out today that the efta countries have had a free trade agreement since 2006, and this has meant, among other things, that norway has tripled its exports to south korea since 2006. so it is a very good deal for europe, and that is why i said yes!
in writing. - we voted in favour of the resolution on food price increases. we recognize that there are major problems in the food sector today and we believe that much can be achieved by tackling food speculation. that is why we have voted in favour of this resolution. however, we do not support an increase in the budget for eu agricultural aid, nor do we support an expansion of the market management instruments. we are also not in favour of the widespread use of gmos in food production.
mr president, i would like to thank you. - i'm not going to lie to you. i would like to ask the commission whether the protection of the marine environment is to be made a cornerstone of this strategy? and will the commission focus on preventing and combating the problem of plastic waste in the oceans? the commission held a workshop on this subject last year, but will it also be included in the strategy? and will the commission use this strategy to combat illegal fishing and intentional oil dumping? i would also like to know what role, if any, maritime tourism, i.e. cruise ships, plays in the strategy. i am thinking of the disruption of wildlife and the pollution of the northernmost atlantic ocean. finally, i would like to ask whether the commission intends to include in the strategy the waterways which directly and indirectly flow into the atlantic. i think that if we are to reduce the amount of waste in the sea, it is necessary to include the great rivers and lakes of europe.
the commission is not mr president, good evening to all those who are still in the chamber. i should like to say a few words about the report we have drawn up in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. we have chosen to call it a report on the revision of the directive on general product safety and market surveillance. the reason we have drawn up this own-initiative report is that the commission is in the process of revising the general product safety directive, and this was a good reason for us in the committee on the internal market to make our recommendations on the content of this revision of the general product safety directive. we have chosen to divide our report into two parts. we are making some recommendations on what should be done with market surveillance in general, but of course also some very specific recommendations on the content of a general product safety audit. first of all, it is worth mentioning that when we got the general product safety directive a few years ago, it was a milestone for product safety in the eu. and the directive is still good, but there is a need for improvement. the problems we have today are really that market surveillance is not effective enough to ensure that the products on the internal market are safe enough. we therefore recommend in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection that special efforts be made to strengthen market surveillance in the eu. it is unfortunate that in a time of crisis there is a risk that member states will not allocate more but rather less resources to ensure market surveillance, and this is deeply problematic, not only for consumers but it is actually just as important for those companies which comply with the rules we have in the internal market. in the course of this report i have spoken to many companies in the internal market, many of whom say that they have never experienced any controls, market controls or market surveillance of the products in the internal market with which they deal. this is of course problematic because if you have proper market control for companies, it means that we can also be sure that there is a fair level of competition, that those who cheat are actually caught and those who make a proper and safe product have the opportunity to be in the internal market. market surveillance is therefore of the utmost importance not only for companies but also for consumers. the specific proposals we have for the revision of the general product safety directive are of course aimed in particular at consumers. we think it is extremely important to strengthen the traceability of products on the internal market. the traceability of products is crucial if we are to be able to recall goods more quickly. we also believe that there is a general need for member states to act and to act more quickly when we find that there are dangerous or problematic products on the internal market. we also believe that we need to look particularly at products coming from third countries, that is, countries outside the eu. an increasing number of products are entering the internal market. we need to ensure that they actually comply with the rules we have for the internal market. in order to ensure that we can make more targeted legislation in the future, we also propose in the report that compulsory accident statistics be introduced at eu level so that we can more precisely identify where legislation is needed, based on what kind of accidents occur with products on the internal market. it will enable us to make more precise and more targeted legislation to secure products in the area where they are needed without harassing the companies that make perfectly good products. we also think that we need to look at the products that are sold online. we can see that there are problems with this. in any case, many people complain that products sold online do not meet the same safety standards as those bought on the regular market. we also believe, of course, that there is a general need for a good dialogue with the customs authorities, in particular with a view to ensuring better and safer goods in the internal market. finally, i would say that i too, of course, had hoped that we might have looked a little more closely at how we could protect our children in the internal market. but this was not supported by the committee on the internal market. this means that we do not need to make any special child protection, but simply to strengthen our product safety in general. i would like to conclude by saying to the commission that we very clearly believe that there is a need for a revision of the product safety directive. we believe that market surveillance needs to be strengthened. we believe that there is a need for a coherent market surveillance in the internal market so that we do not have a fragmentation between different legislation. we believe that a single, coherent umbrella is needed to ensure more market surveillance. it is a matter of the citizens having confidence in the goods on the internal market and the companies having fair and equal conditions of competition in the internal market. with these words i would like to conclude by calling on the commission to launch very quickly the revision of the general product safety directive and at the same time to call on the member states to also allocate sufficient resources to ensure proper market surveillance.
madam chairman! i would also like to thank mr fernandes for a good report and i would also like to thank commissioner lewandowski for his letter to the institutions asking for a reduction in administrative expenditure this year. i think it was a very well-meaning letter and it helps to create the atmosphere that we think it will be easier to insist on savings, and i think that applies to all institutions. it is the council of the regions, the economic and social committee and the court of justice, which has had to cope with a sharp increase in expenditure. that is the court of auditors' view. it is a little more difficult for small institutions such as the ombudsman and the data protection office, and we must of course take this into account. i believe, however, that we in this parliament have a special responsibility to show that we can restrain ourselves. we have been given new tasks by the lisbon treaty, which will entail additional expenditure, but the coming year 2012 must be a year of consolidation. we've been talking about the expansion. we will include the enlargement of croatia in an amending budget, and many people have mentioned the issue of the house of history. i think it's a great idea to have this house of european history as part of our visitor service. many young people are not very familiar with the prehistory of the creation of the european union, and it is said that if you do not know history, you are doomed to repeat it. i think it is very, very important that the intimate history of europe be told, and that is why we must support this historic building. last but not least, i would say that our expenditure is very much linked to the fact that we have several places of residence, and that costs money and we have to go through that. the biggest cost, unfortunately, is one we can't do anything about. it is linked to the fact that we have to move between strasbourg and brussels. if the european council really believes that savings should be made, then the european leaders should take up the matter. thank you, madam chairman.
the president of the council. - when she started her journey on international women's day, women's equality was a brand new, revolutionary idea. since then, gender equality has become a fundamental principle of modern society. it is rooted in the inalienable dignity of the human person, which is shared equally by men and women. but like all achievements, it's not enough to declare it. the human dignity, and in particular the dignity of women, is violated in different ways in different times and places. the content of our attention and our responses should be consistent with this. it is significant that this commemoration will take place after the debate on the report 'the manifestations of poverty affecting women in the european union'. poverty and the european union. a few years ago, it would have been an unlikely thought-out. the economic crisis is particularly hard on the less well-off. the overrepresentation of women in this group in itself assigns certain tasks. and we haven't talked about the typical, mass female fates that, outside of europe, are dressing up poverty with female faces on a global scale. i could also say, "our lady of poverty", as saint francis of assisi put it. women fleeing war or famine with small children, orphaned, fatherless families in slums, women and young girls forced into prostitution, even within the european union. the hungarian presidency's priorities include a number of issues whose successful promotion could have an impact on the development of female employment growth. the first is the europe 2020 strategy, with its employment policy objectives to overcome the economic crisis and reduce poverty. women's work strengthens the dignity of women. it allows them to make their own choices, to shape their own lives. the flagship initiative of the anti-poverty platform highlights the need to take into account the different situations of women and men in poverty reduction efforts. we consider the decision of the epsco council yesterday to renew the pact on equal opportunities for women and men until 2020 to be an important result of the hungarian presidency. in addition to economic policy measures, we must not forget the special social role of women. women must be guaranteed the right to choose between work and family life. to this end, we are working on a review of the directive on the introduction of measures to encourage the safety and health protection of pregnant workers, workers with dependent children and workers who are breastfeeding, which will be the subject of a progress report to be submitted to epsco in june. the hungarian presidency's priorities include raising awareness of the role of families in responding to social, economic and demographic problems. to do this, we're organizing a demographic week with ngos and an informal meeting of family ministers. the aim is to discuss the means by which the increase in the number of births could be ensured. and of course, women have a prominent role in all of this, women's decisions. particular attention shall be paid to the situation of women belonging to disadvantaged groups. the european framework for national roma strategies, which is expected to be endorsed by the european council in june and to which ms járóka lívia, member of the european parliament, and others, rapporteurs and assistants, have given very important input. we expect to say in the council that we want to promote the role of roma women as family-builders, which is also worth building on in the responses to the problems of the roma population. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a brief detour. it is a historical fact that without the active participation of women in society, there is no strong civil society. the president also mentioned that women protesters were among those demanding freedom in tahrir square in cairo. they want to be the change makers. their aspirations should be encouraged by the european union. generously, free of ideological stereotypes, open and sympathetic.
president of the commission. - mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, we remember today the voices of those women who, on 19 march 1911, in germany, austria, denmark and switzerland, rose up in ever greater numbers and in ever greater numbers to defend the right of women to universal suffrage and to better working conditions. today we pay tribute to a century of struggle and success from which we are all beneficiaries. what would our democracies, and in particular the european democracy represented here in the european parliament, be without the full participation of women in the life of the city? what would our societies and economies be without the talent of women? in many ways, european women are role models for the rest of the world. the place which european women occupy in our societies is a source of inspiration for women all over the world. in this connection, i would like to mention the courageous struggle of the women of north africa who, alongside men, are now doing everything possible to resist dictatorships and establish democracies. the active role that european women play today in the economic and political life of the european union is the result of their determined commitment. we are now looking forward to a european construction whose one of the founding principles is equality between men and women, a principle fully recognised in the lisbon treaty. over the years, significant legislation on equal treatment and gender mainstreaming in european policies has helped to move towards a more equal society and labour market. but today we must also be indignant at what remains disappointing, unacceptable, even intolerable. an average employment rate for women of 62.5% compared to 80% for men, an increasingly high level of academic achievement for women but in contrast to their career prospects: this remains disappointing, and this needs to change. women over-represented in the lowest-paid and most precarious jobs and under-represented in positions of responsibility; the gender pay gap of 18%, which means that 22% of women aged 65 and over are at risk of falling below the poverty line because they do not have enough pension, is unacceptable and must be changed. estimates that 20 to 25% of women in the european union have been subjected to physical violence at least once in their lives: this is intolerable, this must change. today we must renew our commitment to continue to work together to make equality between men and women a reality in its own right. we will all benefit, whether in terms of social and economic cohesion, sustainable growth or competitiveness. in september 2010, the commission adopted a strategy which identified five priority areas for action for the period 2010-2015: equality in the labour market, equal economic independence for men and women, equal pay, equality in positions of responsibility and promotion of equality beyond the european union. the commission will always stand by the women who, throughout the world, are fighting every day for access to education and the right to work, alongside those who are fighting for democratization and the exercise of political and civil liberties and rights. the commission will do all it can to help achieve these objectives. but let us not forget that legislation - even if it is well implemented - cannot solve everything. behaviour and perceptions must also change. ladies and gentlemen, today we commemorate the struggle of women for equality. today we can say in europe that the european union would be impossible without european women, all european women! they also make a vital contribution to our values-based project, including the values of gender equality.
chairman of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - mr president! - what is it? you're not born into a woman, you're made into a woman. this quote shows that the idea of what women and men are is the norm for all of our choices in life -- choices based on our gender, not on our interest, our knowledge, our commitment, etc. gender stereotypes place men and women in different professions, and a hundred years of struggle for gender equality have not succeeded in breaking these gender stereotypes. but we refuse to wait another hundred years, because it is these gender stereotypes, these norms, that lead, among other things, to the fact that 97 per cent of large companies are run by men, that women are discriminated against in terms of pay, that women have precarious jobs - when they have any jobs at all - and that it is women who are responsible for the unpaid work in the home. women have the primary responsibility for children. women are subject to violence, including in intimate relationships and in the form of sexual violence, and women are sold as commodities in the sex slave trade. we see a feminization of poverty. this is based on the different standards on which society is built. great progress has been made in a hundred years of struggle. i compare my options for life choices with my mother's and my grandmother's and i see the progress that has been made. but much, much remains to be done. that is why the struggle continues every day of the year, not just on march 8. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank the today marks 100 years since we first celebrated international women's day. one hundred years ago, the struggle was for women's suffrage, which we now take for granted. but there is still a long way to go to achieve full equality and i would like to stress the importance of women's representation in decision-making at all levels. women must be present in politics, but women must also be present in economic life. women must also be present in banks! you cannot shut half the population out of important economic decisions. it's not a democracy. we have to use all the talent we have! it is simply our competitiveness that is at stake. i therefore welcome the initiative of commissioner viviane reding 'women on the boardplace for europe'. it is very positive that the eu wants to be in the lead again when it comes to equality, but we need to have binding legislation where quotas for boards are to be something other than symbol politics, and i hope you have the courage! thank you, sir.
madam chairman! this is special for the danes. the english translation of "equitable" has become "equal". it's not a good translation, because people think it means "same". that is why the final report now says 'fair'. that gives a different meaning, and i would of course recommend to all our colleagues in the danish delegation - perhaps the swedes have the same problem - to vote in favour of the word being correct in the report.
mr. chairman, please. thank you, mr chairman. a large majority in this house has once again decided that we in this house should support a financial transaction tax. of all the taxes that can be adopted, the so-called 'tobin tax' is the stupidest! and the only positive thing to say about that treasure is that it will never come to pass, for if it had been the great beast of revelation, would it not have been accomplished long ago? the first time it came on the wallpaper was way back in the early 1970s. but every time there is a crisis, the old beast is brought out, and after a while, you end up finding out that it's not a good idea. and it is not a good idea to tax only in europe, because we have a 'safe harbour' and capital can move elsewhere in europe. it's a tax on trade instead of profits. the tobin tax is not the answer to anything, and tobin himself recognised this a few years ago. thank you, mr chairman.
mr. chairman, please. the debate on the quota for women on the boards of publicly listed companies has made it clear that there is a constant battle of the trenches in this chamber, and that is a pity. i do not want to hide the fact that i am very much against legislative quotas, partly because i think it is bad for companies, but also because it is bad for the qualified woman who will automatically be marginalised on the boards - so no to quotas. but one could well take the pragmatic approach and discuss whether we could not impose on listed companies to make a policy of equal treatment and to make some of their own objectives, deciding for themselves what some of the objectives should be. it will be good for the women who will then be represented on the boards, but also for the companies, because they will have ownership of the objectives they are to pursue. i think we should try to be a little pragmatic for the sake of business and for the sake of women.
in writing. - i voted against the report because it does not guarantee that a financial transaction tax will be used for what a real tobin tax should be used for: developing countries and investments in the climate. the report is unclear as to whether the taxation is charged to the eu budgets, which raises several problems. firstly, i am fundamentally opposed to increasing the eu's own resources. secondly, the chance of a real tobin tax is lost if the eu is given the tax, as proposed by the commission, to finance eu projects and gaps in the eu budget. my vote should not be interpreted as an opposition to a financial transaction tax in the eu. i fully support a real tobin tax. i also support the positive elements of the report, such as the fight against tax fraud, the polluter pays principle and the call for energy efficiency.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we have voted in favour of the report on reducing health inequalities in the eu. the report contains many important proposals to reduce health inequalities. the report does, however, propose that undocumented immigrants should have the right to and be guaranteed access to health care in the member states. we do not share that view. however, we believe that it is a human right to receive emergency treatment regardless of one's status in society.
member of the commission. − i will be very brief on the question of whether ccctb will be voluntary or mandatory. the answer is yes, it will be voluntary: the proposal provides for a voluntary option for companies to apply ccctb rules. concerning the role of domestic courts, the ccctb proposal provides for rules for dispute settlement, and the role of domestic courts will not be undermined as a result of the proposal. the proposal provides for an apportionment formula with an equal division between sales, labour and assets, and the labour factor will be divided into two components: payroll and number of employees. yes, we made an impact assessment, and that impact assessment will be published together with our proposal. i am fully convinced that the proposal will be for the benefit of european businesses including, i believe, irish businesses.
member of the commission. − because of the vat fraud situation in relation to certain agricultural products, the commission is in contact with romania in order to determine the most appropriate way forward in dealing with this problem. one of the possible solutions to deal with the so-called carousel fraud in this sector would be to apply the reverse charge mechanism. under this arrangement, which is not an exemption scheme, supplies remain taxed but the person liable for the payment of the vat to the tax administration is no longer the supplier but the recipient taxpayer. the fact that the recipient is liable to pay the tax instead of the supplier is the only modification to the standard regime, according to which a taxpayer supplying goods to another taxpayer collects the vat and pays it to the state while the recipient taxpayer can deduct this amount via his vat declaration. both under the standard and the reverse charge regimes, should the recipient be a final consumer, he will not be able to deduct vat and will bear it entirely. therefore vat still remains neutral for taxpayers and there would be no distortion of competition. because the recipient can simultaneously pay and deduct the very same amount in his vat return, this modification has the merit of removing the need for an effective payment of the vat to the tax administration. therefore it avoids fraud arrangements that are based on non-payment of the vat by the supplier followed by deduction of the vat by the customer, who is in possession of a valid invoice. a downside of this system is the fact that it could create other risks of fraud, since all vat would be collected at the last stage in the supply chain. therefore such a system should, in the commission’s view, preferably be limited to agricultural products which are normally sold to intermediaries - taxable persons - and not destined for supply to final consumers. in any case, as this arrangement would deviate from the normal vat rules set out in the vat directive, romania would have to be granted a derogation by the council on the basis of that directive; the commission is still examining the issue.
thank you very much, commissioner. i'm not sure i understood all the details, but i can study it later. but this new system, which i understand is designed to prevent fraud, can cause a particular problem for producers who come from another country, have invested in romania and therefore have vat expenditure in another country, which cannot be offset against vat revenue in romania because they have no vat revenue. has the commission considered how to solve the problem for producers from another eu country who are active both in romania and in other eu countries, so that they are not prevented from being able to offset their input vat in their vat revenue? thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the treaty of lisbon entered into force just over a year ago. nevertheless, we are already working on the second amendment to the treaty. in fact, i think it is very thought-provoking that the lisbon treaty was apparently so bad that it has to be changed all the time. and why is it being changed? and how is it changed? not by the ordinary procedure, but by a special fast track procedure. why would you do that? is it because the treaty amendment is meaningless? no, on the contrary! however, it must be so fast that there is no real possibility of involving the population in a thorough debate. when the lisbon treaty was to be sold to the people, one of the arguments was that it would give the european parliament more influence. but the proposed amendment will mean that major decisions can be taken at eu level without the european parliament having any say in the matter. and what will this treaty change lead to? we are in full agreement with the european trade union movement, the etuc. the amendment to the treaty will pave the way for top-down intervention in collective agreements throughout europe and thus for worsening conditions for employees. does anyone really believe that this is the way to win over the people to a common european project? thank you for speaking!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the overall message i have when reading this report and this amendment to the treaty is that this is a fundamental insult - an insult to the electorate, who for the second time must see themselves totally violated by the treaty, which they were not asked for in the first place. it is an insult to the taxpayers, particularly in northern europe, who are being made to pay for the over-consumption that has been the case in a number of southern european countries. and this is a fundamental insult to the economies of southern europe, which must be given the impression that there is a shortage of money in the countries concerned. that's not the case! the problem in these countries is structural deficiencies. these countries should undergo a series of structural reforms if they are to fit into the model that the euro is proposing and striving for. only by changing their fiscal policies in the direction of germany will these countries be able to get their economies going. it is as if we were to say this outright, and giving them more and more money and cheaper and cheaper loans will only prolong the pain. thank you, mr president!
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is always moving when we have discussions about roma in this parliament. there is a group who think we should not really do anything - the european community does not know this - and then there is another group who think we cannot pay enough money, even if it is badly spent. and none of these approaches to this problem are particularly useful, and certainly do not solve any problems for the roma. that is why it is good that we have this report. it is good because we have now decided to look at the results of the fact that we have already allocated so much money to the integration of the roma. we need to see which projects have benefited from integration before we can define a proper strategy and thereby ensure that the money is well spent. that is why the left party voted in favour of this report. it points the right way for the romans. thank you, mr president.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. and thank you to mrs ashton for her speech, which i am a little disappointed with. i quite agree with mrs ashton that it is precisely now - in this historical situation - that the palestinian-israeli issue is urgent. but why was not a word said about the recognition of palestine until september? we all know that time is running out. we all know that this is a pressing issue and we need to hear from the eu's most senior representative that this is what we are working for. many of us were proud and stood back when we recently got a united eu position in the security council. that was excellent, and thank you for that! that worked too! there are many fine statements being made at the highest level. up in that air there is a lot going on. the terrible thing is that when we come down from the high atmosphere to the earth - to reality - we have terrible difficulties. as mrs de kaiser also mentioned, we saw that the eu accepted the further upgrading of relations with israel. it was called a technical matter to avoid conflict with parliament, but what is much worse is that the israeli settlements are expanding like never before! the siege of gaza has not been lifted at all and unfortunately mrs ashton now refers exclusively to kerem shalom instead of talking about openness to all parties. this is a very serious matter indeed. why is it we never hear about anything but money? we've paid and paid, and that's important. we've paid salam fayyad, but if we don't give him a chance to get his state, it's all for nothing. let me conclude by saying that the credibility of the european union is now really at stake in this historic situation! if we do not know how to put the many fine words into action, where is our credibility in relation to the rest of the north african and arab countries? it turns out every time that when it comes down to it, we have yes at best money to pay with but otherwise do not take political action.
in writing. − i rejected the proposal as a whole as i do not believe it solves the problems. i agree with etuc when they say that the proposed changes will be ‘... paving the way to interfere with social dialogue and intervene in collective bargaining systems all over europe’. furthermore i disagree with the choice of the simplified treaty revision procedure. i believe that the ordinary treaty revision procedure should be used in order to allow for a proper and in-depth discussion about the proposed stability mechanism and other possible changes to the treaties, for example a social progress clause. finally, i urge the member states to enable referenda in all member states on proposals for treaty change.
mr president, i would like to thank you. all over the globe, flows of refugees are moving. partly because of war and unrest and partly because of natural disasters. these people are seeking temporary shelter. the vast majority of refugees return to their home countries, but some 200,000 are to be resettled elsewhere in the world. however, circumstances are constantly changing and, because of the unrest and war in north africa, europe's southern borders are now under heavy pressure from a thousand refugees. the possibilities for admission vary widely from one country to another. i therefore ask the council: can it tell us what this influx of refugees will mean for the proportion of the population that can be included in the resettlement programme? this programme extends the eu's competence in the field of refugees and asylum. i see that as a problem. like other colleagues who have asked, i would also like to ask the following question: can the council give a time horizon for an answer to the question whether the council is either in favour or against a joint eu resettlement programme?
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. the eu's single market is a cornerstone of our european cooperation and, as the commission rightly said in its draft 'single market act' last year, citizens, we europeans, must be at the centre of the work of building the single market. it is important to remember this when we vote in this house tomorrow on the consumer rights directive - a directive which we have been working on for several years now. the text we are voting on tomorrow is, as we all know, heavily revised compared to the draft we received from the commission in autumn 2008. we have in fact been focusing here in parliament on the areas where common eu rules would be a real benefit for both consumers and businesses. and we have, on the contrary, wanted to allow member states to make further legislation where it makes sense. in concrete terms, this means that european consumers will first experience the changes when they shop online in foreign online shops. the new directive will create a single set of rules for online commerce in europe, which will bring a number of benefits to consumers. let me give you just three examples: firstly, all consumers in europe have a 14-day withdrawal period when they buy from an online shop in an eu country. secondly, the total price of the product must be stated before the consumer agrees to buy it. thirdly, the seller must be easily contactable in the event of problems. a fourth thing that has been very important to us in the green group is to make this directive future-proof. a commodity is not just something we can take physically and feel - it is also something intangible today. it could be a piece of software or a piece of music that we download. that is why i am very pleased that digital products have now been included in the text. the proposal which is to be put to the vote tomorrow, and which the green group can support, is not a perfect piece of legislation. we wanted a broader directive, we wanted a more ambitious directive and we wanted progress in all areas. but politics is also the art of the possible, and this is what is possible right now. on the whole, i think that parliament has reached a sensible result which will benefit the consumers of europe.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank mrs balzani. i think you will have a very exciting but also a very difficult task in negotiating this budget, and that is because the framework is tight. the seven-year framework for the eu budget is designed in such a way that, particularly in the agricultural sector, the framework has become increasingly tight over the seven-year period. in fact, we have been able to use unused agricultural funds almost as a way of financing new initiatives such as the recovery package's energy investments and the galileo satellite navigation system. and it's getting harder and harder to make sense of it. i do not agree with the greens that we should not find money for the iter fusion energy system. it is important research, not least in view of what has happened in japan and in view of the need to ensure independence from fossil fuels, so there is also a difficult task. we need to raise money in 2012 for the fusion energy project. i am glad that the commissioner is emphasizing that the eu budget is not the same as national budgets. it is a project budget and the eu must be able to pay its bills. you have to pay the money you promised to pay. and i hope the commissioner is right that we can have a smoother budgetary debate this time. it will require the council to act more intelligently and less stupidly, to report a very square figure on payments, but to go into more detail and look at what the real needs are. last but not least, i would like to thank the commissioner for saying that we must save on administrative costs because this is one of the few places where we can save in the short term. i think it is good that he has started by saying that in the commission we are going to set the administrative costs at zero. this should also be done in other institutions and i think it is something we really need to take seriously - also in this parliament.
in writing. - i am pleased that after more than two years of negotiations in this parliament we have managed to agree on a position which at the same time strengthens consumer rights in the eu and makes it easier to do business in the single market. the decision to vote in blocks on the amendments means that many of us regret that we were unable to vote against certain amendments. let me emphasize: chapters 4 and 5: i would have liked a compromise where chapters 4 and 5 were completely removed from the proposal. i know that the council in particular, but also beuc and the danish consumer organization would have preferred this to the compromise now available for the two chapters. the s&d group's decision to ignore the recommendations of the consumer organisations is a source of laughter. article 22a: i would also like to see the much-maligned article 22a deleted. it is not very friendly to small and mediumsized enterprises. i am more confident than my german liberal colleagues, however, that we will probably be able to change this provision in the negotiations with the council. one idea was to align the article with article 20 of the services directive. it will also reduce the risk of conflicting legislation.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. one in four european women is a victim of violence. more than one in ten women are victims of sexual violence, and our children suffer from it as well. 26% of children report physical violence in childhood. these figures show that europe has a serious problem which requires action. we can no longer turn a blind eye, and i simply cannot bear any more stories of women being thrown acid in the face by their husbands, or of women being mutilated and mutilated. i have heard the most heartbreaking stories from many women, and each of these stories is also a stain on the history of the european union. the eu must act now and stop the violence. that is why this report on violence against women, which we are discussing today, is so important. we are sending a signal to the outside world that the european parliament regards gender-based violence as a violation of fundamental human rights. and now the commission must react! we need a directive, we want a directive to stop violence against women. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. we must ensure the safety of the victims and give them the best possible protection, and we must also ensure that nowhere in europe violence against women can go unpunished, and most importantly, of course, we must make a massive effort to prevent it. violence is not a private matter. we can only end violence by acting politically.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the recent internal tensions and unrest in tunisia, egypt and libya, as well as in other arab countries, have led to massive migration flows with similar challenges for europe. we must of course be prepared to deal with such situations, such currents. we must find a way of doing this together, by working in solidarity with each other to address the challenges that arise when our common framework is under pressure from outside. i am therefore pleased that parliament has adopted today a policy for dealing with migratory flows due to instability. i am particularly pleased that parliament's resolution focuses on strengthening the role of the frontex border agency. we on the left have been fighting this for too long. in particular, during the current crisis in north africa, frontex has proved to be a very important tool for managing migration flows for the region. now we just need frontex to move faster when it finally comes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. for the liberals it is absolutely essential that we ensure not only women but also men in rural areas the same rights and opportunities as people have when they settle in the cities. if we want to maintain a strong european agriculture that can provide quality food for the whole of europe, we have to ensure that the industry can attract both labour and families. this requires that we give rural areas the opportunity to generate growth, innovation, jobs and development. we do not need to impose quotas and unnatural gender divisions on the industry! it is therefore also good that parliament has adopted today the report on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas, and that it is sending a very clear signal that women also play an important role in this area.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it should always be up to each member state to determine its own energy mix. it is also natural that each member state should pay if it wishes to dispose of some of the components of the mix. but it was precisely in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria that a number of soviet-era nuclear power stations were located, which were far from meeting our safety requirements. it was therefore necessary and reasonable to support the winding-up of these companies. the problem is that the planning that has been there, or rather the lack of it, simply must not be repeated. we can say that by the end of 2013 we will have spent a total of eur 3 billion. and we haven't even finished the work yet! it's a sign of poor planning. the commission must provide a thorough analysis of the financial effectiveness of projects, because any future aid must be conditional on the countries being able to prove that they have managed the current funds properly.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was not aware that we could even be allowed to give an explanation of vote on this resolution, but i will make it quite brief. the danish left (i.e. the liberal party in denmark) is against the globalisation fund. but once the decision to set up a globalisation fund has been taken and applications have been submitted and the countries concerned have met the requirements of the globalisation fund, then of course the application must be complied with. that's why we voted yes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. violence against women is a problem which exists all over the world and it is of course important to deal with it - both from a human and a political point of view. that is why we must of course also deal with this at european level. i would just like the committee on women's rights and gender equality, when we discuss these problems, instead of making a christmas tree decorated with various action initiatives, to be able to focus a little more on what initiatives they actually want the european union to focus on. i think that this will give the action a little more weight, more effect and thus be better for women and, in a sense, also for the credibility of the initiatives we are proposing here in parliament.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to say something about the house of european history. of course, parliament is not supposed to run a museum, but i think it is a good idea that we have better facilities for visitors to parliament in brussels, and i think a european history house is an important element in this context. i would also like to say that a majority of my group voted in favour of the house of european history. but we very, very much agree with the views that have come from the s&d group that we need more openness, more transparency as to how the economy is connected with this house and how the operation will be in the future. this is very important. but i think it's a good idea. i certainly support that. but we must know what financial commitments we are making in the longer term.
mr president, i would like to thank you. let me begin by saying that i am a great supporter of political parties at national level, at european level and also at international level. but a political party is something else and much more than a party apparatus. one of the great democratic challenges is that political parties are becoming less and less reflective of the population as a whole. this is reflected, among other things, in the loss of members to political parties. in many countries, the government has chosen to compensate for this by increasing state subsidies to political parties. but increased state subsidies do not guarantee a closer link between the leadership and the apparatuses of the parties on the one hand and the members of the parties on the other. on the contrary, the risk of the development of an independent bureaucratic apparatus is greater the more economically independent the party apparatus becomes of its members. i must therefore say that i am sceptical about the idea of european parties being approved by the eu, supported by eu funds. not that i have anything against european parties. european parties must grow from below politically, organisationally and economically. if that is not possible, it is probably because there is not enough support. there is no shortcut to democracy, not even when it comes to building european parties.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the effort they have made in the recommendation and the three reports. tomorrow we will vote on the import agreement with greenland, on which i am the s&d's shadow rapporteur. i am glad that we are now removing a cumbersome and expensive bureaucracy and at the same time fully complying with the eu's requirements on food safety. the agreement gives greenland a good opportunity to market its fishery products under the rules of the internal market, as long as they meet eu health and safety requirements. greenland fish is already being controlled by the danish food authorities, both in greenland and again when exported to the eu. it's an expensive double-time job, which, thankfully, the deal does away with. this deal has only winners, but has obviously been too long in the making. but it was also important for parliament that we should have full clarity on the legal basis, and we hope that the commission and the council will support this. we shall also vote on the fisheries partnership agreement with the comoros. as a starting point, i am very much in favour of sustainable fisheries agreements. sustainability for the fish stocks, for the fishermen, for the local population and finally sustainability for the eu fishermen who use the agreements. unfortunately, this agreement with the comoros is not as sustainable as i would like it to be, as it does not contain any final ceiling on the amount of fish that eu vessels may fish. once the agreed quota of 4 850 tonnes per year has been reached, each additional tonne will cost eur 65. the tendency not to capture as much as possible in third country waters is harmful and wrong. it is not right that we should have different fisheries policies depending on whether we are in our own waters or in the waters of third countries. i would also like to urge that even more should be done to ensure that the money which the eu gives in return to third countries in connection with the conclusion of fisheries agreements is earmarked in such a way that the money is sure to benefit the local population.
after the committees have delivered their opinions, we shall now turn to the speakers on behalf of the groups. before i give the floor to the first speaker, mr karas, i would like to make two very brief remarks. we have learned that this morning at dawn a boat with over two hundred migrants, sighted off lampedusa, overturned due to sea conditions. the coast guard has done and is doing its utmost to bring the missing to safety. the situation is dramatic. we are anxiously awaiting and expecting the commitments made in this house by the commission and the governments to be fulfilled. i now move on to the second communication. two years after the tragic earthquake that struck the city of l'aquila and the region of abruzzo, i would like to renew the closeness and attention of this house to the people affected by the earthquake, with the hope that the time for the restoration of the housing and historical heritage of the region will be speeded up.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president i thank the rapporteurs and the other shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation on the reports. it has been a good cooperation and i am glad that the social democrats have finally agreed to a compromise. it would have looked strange if we had not succeeded in reaching a broad compromise on these reports. i would like to mention three things which i think have been a success for the liberal group in the report i have been working on, namely the report on governance and partnership in the internal market. the first priority we have been given is the question of the eu heads of state or government taking political leadership in this area. it is absolutely essential to achieve results and to give us the necessary priority. the second is that we have ensured that we are actually focused on getting the legislation in this area implemented correctly and on time. this has been a major problem with the services directive and we hope that it will not be repeated in the future. finally, we have an alternative dispute settlement system which should be promoted at eu level, especially for consumers who shop online. the whole focus on e-commerce in general is also a great step forward, and in that connection it should be mentioned that we have also just adopted a consumer rights directive which points in the same direction, which is of course another great step forward. finally, i would strongly urge commissioner barnier that as this major package on the internal market is being passed through the system, we should also promote communication on it. the experience we have had so far with the communication of the internal market - the citizens' internal market, which we would like to have - has left something to be desired. we all have a responsibility, but i would strongly urge the commissioner to, if i may say so, to give it a go, to make sure that we really promote communication, give it a boost, so that citizens and small businesses become much more aware that this excellent package even exists. the lack of attention to the issue seems to be the biggest problem today. i would therefore strongly recommend that communication be given a proper one!
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. i would like to thank the back in the 1980s, the decade in which i was born, the then president of the commission, jacques delors, said that the single market should be accompanied by a social dimension. more than 20 years later, we have 23 million unemployed, with pressure on wages and working conditions and on public services, up to 18 million working poor and growing inequality in europe. at the same time, we are losing jobs and we do not really know how we will live in the future. it must be said that we still have a great deal of work to do to create the european social dimension. mario monti took up the matter last year in his excellent speech to all of us. i think he made a very important point when he said that there are some bottlenecks, that is to say, some critical points that we have to accept and that we have to deal with if we want to move forward, including social and environmental ones. in fact, it is the central idea that i think we should pursue or pursue for the next time. it has been a bit of a difficult process to deal with this document in parliament, but i am very glad that today we as a parliament can give a view on the further work of the commission and mr barnier. i would like to mention three points which are very important to us greens and which are very central messages. the first message from here today is that we want a green single market. this will be achieved, inter alia, through innovation and by using public procurement and public procurement offensively to promote green transition. this must also be achieved by introducing an ecological footprint on goods and by finding some financial instruments which can help to make these green investments possible, including eurobonds, which are to cover our large investment needs in the context of the green transition. the second message from us today is that we want a social single market. this means, among other things, that we want a fundamental and thorough social examination of the legislation before it is presented, and it also means that we want a so-called social policy reference - that is the wording we have agreed on in the relevant internal market legislation to remind us all of the obligations that the lisbon treaty has given us in terms of fundamental social rights. the third message is that we want the internal market for consumers, with ambitious measures, market surveillance and passenger rights. it is therefore a very good document which we greens can support today. i wish it had been even clearer in its messages, i wish this document had made us dream that europe could become the leading region in the world in terms of green transition, social justice and new jobs. we may have a little work to do on that, but i think it's a good start.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the report we have adopted today says that the commission's proposal is pragmatic. i have great difficulty in seeing the pragmatic side of depriving the people of the 27 member states of the right to determine the composition of their own population. asylum and immigration policies are so closely linked to the existence of a country that it is grotesque for the eu to start interfering in these matters. it is also precisely for this reason that denmark has maintained its reservation of rights, so that we in the danish folketing have the opportunity to decide on these matters ourselves and so that it is not something that the european parliament and the other eu institutions have to deal with. it is therefore outrageous to see how the court of justice of the european union is currently trying to undermine the danish legal system, and even more outrageous to see how this parliament can adopt a report - albeit against my and the danish people's party's votes - without even dealing with the matter at hand. the problem is that the right of the inhabitants to determine their own foreign policy is being taken away, and not least that the promises originally made to a country like denmark are being cheated and deceived.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i voted against this budget report, but i would like to thank the many colleagues who voted in favour, unfortunately a little too many. it was a fantastic illustration of the shift in the perception of reality that exists here in the european parliament and here in the eu institutions, in relation to the world around us, with the people for whom we are actually making rules. in a number of areas, despite our calls for cuts by the member states and other institutions, the expenditure of the european parliament itself and of the eu institutions in general has been doubled. this has been done, for example, by introducing the requirement that a completely new museum be built to glorify european history, european institutions, etc. i think that an incredible number of people in the member states, where national cuts are being made, are wondering why their representatives in the european parliament are so carelessly just walking around with the money, even in the midst of a financial crisis.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i too share the desire for clear rules for european political parties, but i must fundamentally question what the outcome of european political parties really is. the report says that it should create a greater understanding among european citizens of the eu institutions and crossborder cooperation. what we can see, however, is that as european parties grow larger, as more and more money is spent both in the parties and in the foundations and in all sorts of other institutions related to this, yes, as it does, the support and understanding of the european people for the eu institutions is declining. the latest eurobarometer survey showed historically low support for the eu among the european populations, so it's not working. i therefore ask the fundamental question whether it really makes sense to continue to waste billions of euros on these european parties. i do not think so, and that is why i voted against this report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i share the view that the single market is a fundamentally good idea and that better governance of the single market is sensible and in the interests of consumers. but i am surprised that the six amendments i tabled to this report were rejected by such an overwhelming majority. for what was it basically? yes, it was about applying minimum harmonization rather than total harmonization and thus ensuring that countries which already have good rules for consumers are not forced to down-regulate their level of consumer protection. it was also about the unique labour market model that we know from the nordic countries, where it is not the legislators but the social partners who decide on wage conditions and labour market conditions, and that they are the ones who set the rules and that the nordic labour model must be maintained and protected, not undermined. two such completely harmless proposals, which i am convinced would have a clear majority in a european vote, are voted down in this house. it is a sign of the shift in reality which characterizes the members of this parliament.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the left supports parliament's reduction of travel costs, but it is important that members can continue to change tickets at short notice. the proposal does not take that into account.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the report on a single market for europeans. the report contains many important proposals for the development of the internal market. in particular, we have made it a priority to ensure that labour market rights are respected in the context of the relaunch of a more competitive internal market. however, the report also includes proposals to call on the commission to identify and remove the tax obstacles facing eu citizens and to call on the commission to further develop its immigration policy towards migrant and seasonal workers. both, we believe, are national issues. the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the report, which we support in spirit, but we do not think that this report proposes such amendments.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the report on the internal market for enterprises and growth. the report contains many important proposals for the development of the internal market. however, we do not support the idea that differences in taxation rules can create significant obstacles to crossborder transactions and that the coordination of national tax policies proposed by mario monti in his report would have a significant added value for businesses and citizens. we are, however, in favour of coordination between member states so that tax evasion and tax havens for companies do not occur. tax rates remain a national issue.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, better and less expensive data transmission through high-speed broadband for all in 2020: that is an ambitious policy target, i must say, and i fully support it. but let us face it: it will not come easily. nevertheless, i believe that with the parliament’s first reading position we will be able to take a big first step towards this goal. and let us be clear: broadband for all is not only about making sure that everyone has a facebook profile. it is about ensuring europe’s place in the world as a leading knowledge-based economy. if we manage to connect 500 million people, our citizens and businesses will be able to reap all of the benefits and opportunities of the digital economy. two things, especially, need to change if europe is to get there. firstly, we need a well-functioning pro-competition telecommunications market at european level. that is why we have introduced rules on competition-proofing. member states should not be allowed to allocate newly freed-up spectrum to a specific market player if that would diminish or distort competition in the market. secondly, we need a more efficient allocation of spectrum: an allocation that also more actively reflects today’s diverse demands and needs for spectrum. that is why we are gearing this policy programme not only to free up the 800 mhz band, but also to free up additional bands amounting to at least 1200 mhz by 2015. let me finish by thanking the commission, the commissioner, the rapporteur and my fellow shadows for their extraordinarily good cooperation; without it this level of ambition would not have been possible.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. thank you, madam president. let me begin by thanking all the colleagues who have produced good and critical reports on the 2009 accounts of the eu institutions. some people have asked if we are not too critical. for example, when we question our own way of spending money here in the european parliament, whether it be the delayed opening of the visitor centre, the creation of a secret television channel or the continuing travelling circus between brussels and strasbourg. but no, we're not being too critical. our task is precisely to identify and address the sensitive points on behalf of the european taxpayers. that is what the citizens expect of us, and we could have taken up even more criticisms. the council's behaviour is also unacceptable precisely because it is our duty to investigate and be critical. because once again this year the council has done everything possible to prevent us from carrying out our work as auditors. they have refused to send us the relevant material, they have refused to answer our questions and they have refused to meet for an open discussion with the committee on budgetary control, as all the other institutions do. i am of course glad that the hungarian presidency of the council has chosen to be present. they deserve credit for that. but when we talk about a gentleman's agreement between the council and parliament, we must say: if there is such an agreement, then put it forward. the council has the opportunity to read it today if there is such an agreement. we'd like to see it. we have asked for it from the council repeatedly, but have never received it. because it doesn't exist! that is why my group can support 100% the proposal not to give the council discharge today. instead, we will call on the council to stop its boycott of parliament and to give us answers to the questions we put to its accounts. today we are examining the eu's accounts for 2009. but just as important as what can be seen in the accounts is what is not, which is of great importance to the eu's economy. a few days ago europol published a report on organised crime in the eu. it was shocking reading. according to le monde, vat fraud alone costs many billions of euros a year. and then there's the carbon-quota fraud and all that. so there is certainly reason for us to continue and intensify the discussion on how to organise the eu's economy in a way that benefits the taxpayers.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission can agree with the proposal to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner. now we did not get to vote on the final resolution on pakistan here today, but i would point out that i think it is entirely reasonable and timely that we are helping pakistan through the very difficult situation that it is in. the eu has provided eur 415 million in emergency aid to pakistan, and that is good. it is also good that we are now taking the initiative to remove customs duties on some important export products in the regions, namely textiles and leather. we do this because we have a basic experience that free trade is good. but i must say that i find it both sad and a little hypocritical that we are selling rubber bands in meters and saying that if the initiatives we are taking in pakistan start to help, we will close down again. we're putting the customs walls back up. i think that this parliament should revise its view of how this should be handled. that is why it is perhaps very sensible that we have postponed the decision.
i have to say, madam president, we have today voted to provide eur 46 million in macrofinancial assistance to georgia. of course, the money will not come without conditions of financial accountability and transparency. it is important, of course, but it is also important to remember that the distribution of this money is in our own interest, as georgia has a very important geopolitical significance. the country was hit by a double shock: first the war with russia in august 2008 and then the global financial crisis, and it continues to suffer under a trade embargo from russia. it is therefore in the interest of the european union to support a reform-friendly and western-oriented government, which is what we have done with today's vote.
in writing. - the left is against paragraph 112. it is essential that the european languages remain equal in the eu. in addition to this article, the report contains a number of sensible measures.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to endorse the proposal put forward by the commission to strengthen external border controls. unfortunately, that's not very satisfactory. because at a time when we are witnessing a number of member states pursuing a risky immigration policy, allowing large numbers of foreigners to reside legally in the eu, and where the lack of border controls allows people to move freely across borders, there is a need for permanently stronger border controls between the member states of the eu. i would also like to express my surprise that, in view of the constant talk about solidarity, a member state such as denmark, which has been good at tightening up its foreign policy, should show any real solidarity with countries which have not been able to do the same. it would be natural to respect the fact that countries which have the national sovereignty to determine their own foreign policy can also enjoy the fruits of their labors.
i have to say, madam president, mr schulz has left, but i am glad that he and mrs rodust have made it clear that it would not be a social democratic policy to re-establish border controls. but two years ago, during the parliamentary election campaign, the danish social democrats made the closure of the frontiers their central demand. it wasn't the right-wing populists! mr jørgensen and the party chairman, mrs thorning-schmidt, have argued together in favour of this. i agree with you, that's populism! so an important question to the commission: can a country re-establish border controls and at the same time remain in the schengen union with access to the information system, etc., or is it an either/or? the question is important for the danish debate and i ask for a clear answer.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, this report is a step towards greater openness and a mandatory register of interests for all those who seek to influence the eu. but there is still a long way to go. and as corrupt meps have revealed, we also need to sweep our own backs. we must state that it is not acceptable for members of the european parliament to have any kind of paid secondary job which could call into question our integrity. in addition, we must have effective controls and rules on the consequences of breaking the rules. and we must establish clear protective rules for whistle blowers to avoid the messenger being punished. we look forward to the report of the special committee and we expect a prompt revision of the agreement we are discussing here today and of parliament's rules of procedure. (the president accepted a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
thank you for asking. this gives me the opportunity to emphasize the point i have already made, namely that there is still a long way to go. we do not think that this is quite finished. we believe that something is still missing. and it is clear that the question of compulsory education is absolutely crucial. we think that the idea of an electronic footprint in legislative texts is a good one. and we think that's something that needs to be worked on. but we also believe that it should be mandatory in order to work. but as i said, this is a step in the right direction and we hope that when the report from the special committee comes and this text has to be revised - because it will be revised within two years - we will be able to get it right. because we have to finish in this area.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to thank you very much for the good compromise we have reached. the rapporteur, mr manders, in particular, has done a great deal of work and ensured that there is really good cooperation here in the european parliament. we have come a long way since the commission put forward its original proposal. it was a technical proposal, and it was a proposal which only contained advantages for the undertakings. but fortunately, through the work done here in the european parliament, we have succeeded in bringing in elements which make this legislation ultimately also benefit consumers. i think that is quite crucial. we will end up with better labelling and greater safety for consumers when we eventually implement this legislation. the most important thing for me and the socialist group has been to ensure that there is no health problem with textiles traded on the internal market. we are therefore very pleased that it has been possible to get through - and as the commissioner has just said, we must have a study to ensure - that there are no residues of dangerous substances in our textiles which can cause us allergies. this is absolutely essential and we in the socialist group are very pleased with it. we also agree that traceability and origin are extremely important and that consumers are very keen to have this information. i personally hope that we can go a little further than that. that we might also have harmonized sizes of clothing, that we might use new technologies in our labelling of textiles in the future. but i think we've come a long way. it must be a lesson to us that it is important when we make legislation here in the eu that it benefits both businesses and consumers at the same time. this is the best way to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. i would like to conclude by once again thanking my colleagues for their excellent cooperation. i think we've got a very good result.
mr. chairman, i have to ask you... the textile industry is global. the clothes we wear have often been around the world before they end up as a finished product with eu consumers. this report is both comprehensive, thorough and highly technical. it is a difficult balance between the consumer's right to information, the possibility of global traceability and competitiveness. the consumer has the right to know which chemical substances were involved in the production process of a product, where the raw material came from, etc. but where is the balance between an infinitely long declaration on the neck of the garment and a small patch that simply says that the garment is not suitable for washing? the labelling must be unambiguous and provide transparent information so that the public can make its choice in accordance with its own ideas. this compromise is going in the right direction. but we will not have an inquiry from the commission until 2013. this study is intended to provide the framework for consumers to obtain precise information on the country of origin and additional information, through labelling, which ensures full traceability of textile production.' i hope that this basis will lead to sensible and useful legislation. there is a long way to go until 2013, so i am glad that the commissioner wants to bring forward the date for legislation on full consumer information. thank you, commissioner. the ecr group will vote in favour of the proposal.
for the imposter. i am glad that so many colleagues are aware that our waste does not just disappear by itself, but unfortunately often ends up in the world where no one takes proper care of it. actually, it's not new. many years ago, a number of european countries started sending their dilapidated ferries loaded with asbestos to india, where barefoot workers - and unfortunately still do - separate old iron and dangerous components on the open beach. even worse is the situation of the african children who sit on the ground and separate our electronic waste down to its individual components. can we be that familiar? no, of course we can't. but the eu lacks sensible and realistic options for dealing with the good rules that were established as early as 12 july 2006. the directive is enforced through the national states, as is seen in article 50 of the same regulation, but some states ignore this enforcement. but something must be done, because 70 million tonnes of hazardous waste a year - and the trend is increasing - is no small matter. i therefore ask, in addition to the written questions already received by the commission, whether the commission intends to use special port areas for the discharge of hazardous waste in selected ports. this generally provides better control possibilities. would the commission like to do public relations work to get eu citizens to deliver their hazardous waste to specific places in the member states? it is extremely important that we make our citizens aware of the problem, because without their help in the fight against hazardous waste management we are going nowhere.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to congratulate mr manders on the completion of this proposal. it turns out to be more complicated than it seemed at first. i am pleased that agreement has been reached on this textile labelling regulation, which will strengthen the competitiveness of the textile industry and benefit consumers in the form of a wider choice of new and innovative products. that is a good compromise, which i think the council can live with. i have not, personally, concealed my scepticism about the introduction of a mark of origin in the process. i am therefore also pleased that we have agreed on a text which only obliges the commission to analyse the need for origin labelling. the agreement will not therefore lead to the introduction of compulsory origin marking. i cannot vote for a regulation which would oblige companies to use such a country of origin mark. i know that the council shares this view. the debate yesterday unfortunately underlined that commissioner antonio tajani does not share this view. if we can't avoid it, i'll take the fight afterwards.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the debate a great deal has been said about the hökmark report on our radio frequency policy programme. which sounds pretty unsexy, i have to admit. but it is really about whether we can ensure broadband and cheap data transmission for our citizens in the future. i should like to say very briefly that it is quite impressive, when you try to look into the future, that the negotiators and, in particular, our rapporteur, have managed to get such a large majority for the report we voted on today. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think it is important to stress, in addition to today's vote on the lobby register, that lobbying is good in principle. it is, in fact, an indispensable part of the democratic process. without lobbying, politicians' knowledge, facts and attitudes about all parts of society would be far too limited. everyone in this parliament and the press therefore has a responsibility to ensure that there is a critical but also a true picture of what is at stake. secondly, i would say that the best is the worst enemy of the good. the perfectly legitimate demand for transparency, which is reflected in today's debate and vote, must necessarily be balanced so that we do not, in the best sense, destroy a well-functioning system. the demand for total transparency, compulsory individual registration of everything between heaven and earth, ethical review committees, etc. are at best naive and at worst part of a populist political agenda that will do more harm than good. in practice, it's all about trust. controls shall be aligned with practicability for workflow purposes, if deemed necessary. i would also like to challenge the vote on paragraph 9. i did not get the impression during the very quick vote that we actually got the right result.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i agree with morten løkkegaard completely. i am not sure that we got the right vote on paragraph 9. and if that were the case, there's something wrong with the perception of reality in this house! it is absolutely right that we should be as open as possible. but to demand that we all publish the names of everyone we meet is completely insane! that's completely insane, because when is a meeting a meeting? it's got to be defined. is it when you meet in the hallway or on the bus or somewhere? is this a conference call? is this an internet meeting? when is it? what about many of the people we're meeting with today from rebel movements in north africa? do they have to see their names in the papers? no, you didn't, did you? it should be logical that there is always the possibility of guaranteeing people that they can come to us in confidence. i'll never be a party to breaking that confidentiality.
mr president, i would like to thank you. india is the world's largest democracy, one of the world's fastest growing markets and well on its way to becoming a knowledge-based economy. in view of this, it is common sense that we should conclude a free trade agreement. it's in our own interest, too. that is why the question arises: how on earth can the left be against this free trade agreement? how can one be against lifting millions of indians out of poverty and how can the left be against fighting for the open market for european companies. i can't believe this! i just can't believe history is so hard to learn from. free trade is good! free trade is good! free trade is good! free trade creates growth, freedom for people and therefore peace.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is interesting and in a way charming that there are still members of this parliament who may be against free trade. i think that's kind of amazing. but i would like to declare my full support. i believe that free trade is the way forward, and it is also free trade that should lead the way forward in relation to india. the reason for the delay is, of course, that there are problems with various details - big details, you might say - namely the issue of copy medicine, which the previous speaker also touched on. i would urge both sides of the question, both the eu and india, to try to find a solution to this problem that both respects copyright, because it is absolutely essential, and at the same time ensures that practical possibilities are provided for india's many poor to have access to cheap medicine. finally, there are some critics who believe that we should not follow the bilateral track in the negotiations and make bilateral agreements. they believe that this is a breach of the wto negotiations. i think this is completely parallel to the wto. we must do something to avoid being stranded even further than we already are in the wto. these bilateral agreements are simply necessary, and i welcome them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is always wonderful when we discuss free trade in this parliament. then some old radio signals from radio tirana always come up in the debate! that is at least the impression one gets when one hears the left's reflections on free trade. in this way they make it clear that they have learned nothing from history. now, this is the japan area. the eu and japan are two of the world's largest economies. together we account for one fifth of global trade. we invest considerable sums in each other's economies, we have common interests at the global level, and yet the negotiations are only making slow progress. so let's say from here that the barriers are gone. we must accept that this requires concessions on both sides, because together our economies can complement each other and create innovation, growth and jobs.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would simply like to supplement what has already been said. there is no doubt that one of the barriers for the japanese is the very high technical barriers that exist and have always existed in japanese society. the european team must make a strong appeal to the japanese to get out of the trenches and to do something about these technical barriers. it is a tragic background, of course, that japan is going through this catastrophe. but if nothing else, it is a positive development that they have had the opportunity to reflect on this and to realise that outside help is now really needed. there is a great need for companies from other regions to come in and help. it may be an opportunity to look ahead, to see the situation in a new light and to remove these many technical barriers.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would have been surprised too if i had not heard from the french side that protectionism is a good thing. well, enough of the dogma. we must turn to the forests, and here we are today discussing our report on the commission's green paper on forest protection and forest information in the european union. european forests have many social, economic and environmental functions and they undoubtedly make an important contribution to solving the climate crisis - indeed, a very effective way of doing so - and to achieving the eu's 2020 targets. the left therefore welcomes the fact that today's vote has ensured more consistent and long-term protection for forests, while at the same time maintaining the ambitions to ensure the global competitiveness of european forest-based industries. we were a little surprised, however, that the proposal to prohibit any building in the area for 30 years after a forest fire had been passed. it is a typical left-wing approach to solving crime problems by banning everything and everyone for thirty years. of course, we do not support this.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. thank you so much for that! unfortunately, as we know, the whole thing ended in a dispute over food from cloned animals. i come from a country where food from cloned animals is illegal. but cloning still comes in the back way. often the subject is introduced in suspicious silence outside of the debate. i think it is strange that we want total transparency on everything from socks and televisions to pills and banks, but when it comes to food, the situation is different. colourants, preservatives, growth hormones, antibiotics, gmos and much more are used - preferably without the consumer being able to read the labelling. why is no one interested in food being as natural as possible? why do we not take better care of the welfare and health of ourselves and our farm animals? i cannot understand why there is so little concern for the health of children and adults in certain european circles.
the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. the economic crisis has had its effect on europe's small and medium-sized enterprises. in addition, the new basel rules, which are now to be implemented in the future capital requirements directive. this is likely to make it even more difficult for smes to raise the capital for the growth europe needs. in this resolution, the european parliament sends a clear signal to the commission that it is now time to take the necessary decisions for the benefit of small and mediumsized enterprises. the fact is that politicians are not supposed to be businessmen, but they are supposed to help create the environment in which european businesses can grow. i am pleased that there will now be an audit of the sba. we must act in character instead of toasting our european companies. there is an urgent need for better access to finance for smes. there is also a need for increased market access, i.e. modernisation of, inter alia, standardisation within the eu, and for better access for smes to supply when public procurement is required. finally, i would mention the need to reduce the administrative burden on companies, for example in the area of reporting. why do small business owners have to report more than once? once must be enough. the public authorities must then distribute the information themselves. we must remember that when we make new legislation in the eu and have it implemented in the member states, we often impose even more burdens on smes. it is therefore not enough to reduce the number, we must also be careful whenever we legislate not to burden smes further. all in all, there is a need to make it easier to do business in europe, and we need to act now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i know the four agencies very well and have followed their work for many years. i think we must be very open about this. it is not just a question of overlapping tasks, but there will simply be synergies and there will be the opportunity to do a better job if you let them work more closely together. now my greek colleague, mrs rapti, mentioned that there were political undertones behind the desire to possibly merge agencies, and she mentioned that agencies in greece should not be touched. but the fact that we have the geographical dispersion of agencies, that they are located in different parts of europe, must not be a barrier to us having an effective system. the most important thing is that the agencies provide that we get the tasks we need to get done done and that it is done as cheaply and efficiently as possible. that's what you're going to work for, mr. andor. so look at this matter with an open mind!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on this report. it's turned out to be a very nice result. in the 2020 strategy we recognised that if we are to maintain our level of prosperity in europe, we need to increase our productivity. that is why we must put innovation at the centre. but it is important that we do not confine innovation to research and technology. if we are serious about innovation, we must first of all invest in the human factor. innovation is a creative process which can be taught and which should be part of the teaching methods used in the member states. we need people with good suggestions for improvements in the workplace and models of solutions to tackle the new tasks. but that requires that we educate and retrain our workforce. we also have a great task ahead of us in teaching companies how to make the most of the innovation potential of their employees. employee-driven innovation is not only good for companies but also for job satisfaction and can help reduce stress. i would urge the commission to engage with the social partners on how best to promote employee-driven innovation in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are in the midst of a struggle (and this is reflected in the debate here today) - a struggle between those forces in europe who want to roll back the european project and those of us who want us, in the midst of the crisis we are in now, to raise the sails and strengthen the european project as such. there is a lot of talk about the economy, and there is a lot of talk about integration and foreign policy at the moment, and that is of course also important. but there is no doubt in my mind that if we are to preserve the european project and, not least, to anchor it in the populations, who are sceptical of the whole idea at the moment, we must bet on culture and we must bet on the young. that is why i naturally welcome the debate here today and also the five reports under discussion. i was the shadow rapporteur on the report on 'young people on the move' and i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr zver, for his good cooperation. since i cannot go into too many details - time does not permit - i will concentrate on two: firstly, the question of young people being able to move across borders. i believe that in the midst of this crisis we really need to make a political and economic commitment to actually implementing and supporting this mobility of young people. i therefore welcome the fact that we are working on strengthening what we call the european qualifications framework, i.e. the fact that young people can use the points they accumulate across borders. it is a small but concrete detail, as it is a matter of getting the young people to have no difficulties there. secondly, i would like to highlight what we call 'the mobility scoreboard', where we show the barriers to mobility in the member states. i am also a strong supporter of this - i think it is a very good idea. these are just two concrete little examples of how we're moving forward, and the devil is in the detail. it is here, in concrete terms, that we must work to strengthen the opportunities available to young people and thus invest in them. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, thank him for his cooperation and wish the commissioner every success in the great work that is being done (i know) in the college of commissioners to make the other commissioners aware of the importance of culture and young people.
in writing. − the cultural and creative industries contribute to both growth and jobs in the eu. they are part of the plan to achieve the 2020 objectives, and it is therefore important that we create good conditions for the sector - not least in the area that i would like to highlight, namely copyright. as the report points out in several places, we must of course ensure that artists are paid fairly for their work. at the same time, it is crucial that we ensure that consumers have a wide range of online services. we do this best by creating the conditions for legal, viable alternatives. there are already many good examples today and they need to be made more visible. creating effective alternatives is the best way to fight piracy. at the same time, it is vital that the commission comes up with an ambitious proposal on copyright - something we are looking forward to with great anticipation. in this report we point out, among other things, that a pan-european approach should be adopted. it is no use operating with 27 different systems in this important area. i therefore believe that the commission should take a holistic approach to the relationship between licensing, private copying fees and piracy. i hope that this report will help to set this in motion, and i look forward to an ambitious approach from the commission.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for this opportunity to address all of you before the final vote on the fp7 interim evaluation report in plenary tomorrow morning. the implementation of the seventh framework programme, and in turn the progression towards what is proposed as a common strategic framework for research and innovation, is marked by a long series of individual, but nonetheless significant, steps. i believe that this debate today marks one of those significant steps. leading up to the discussions today are the months of painstaking work by mr audy, the shadow rapporteurs, the other members of the committee on industry, research and energy, as well as the members of the committee on budgets. evaluation is nothing if the results are not presented, discussed, questioned, and indeed either accepted or sometimes rejected, by the very stakeholders that it aims to serve, and of course parliament plays a vital role in this process, not only bringing to bear a broad cross-section of experience from political and public life but, just as importantly, from the many fields of deep knowledge held by members. let me make a few brief introductory remarks on the report itself. first, this is a rich and comprehensive report that deals in a constructive way with the key issues raised in the fp7 interim evaluation. it is most encouraging to see that the interim evaluation report triggered very substantive responses from the institutions and that these responses, although putting the emphasis sometimes on different issues, basically agree with the main findings and recommendations made by the independent evaluation experts. the commission is pleased to see that the quality of this evaluation work is acknowledged by parliament. the commission notes that the main points raised in the present report coincide with the key issues addressed in the commission’s response to the evaluation report. even though there might not be full agreement on every detail, it is important to note that there exists a core common understanding on the big ticketed items, notably the need for a comprehensive strategy to boost research and innovation in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, the need to make the programme more accessible to the wide range of possible contributors throughout europe, and the need to further simplify procedures to allow all participants to focus on creativity rather than bureaucracy. the commission underlines its intention to take concrete measures in the remaining years of the fp7 to implement a maximum number of the concise suggestions made by the evaluators. as an example, as mr audy reminded us, we have already implemented three concrete simplification measures for fp7: more use of average personnel costs, easier procedure for owner-managers of smes, and a clearing committee to ensure a common interpretation of the rules. at the same time, the recommendations and views expressed in this interim evaluation are of course of paramount importance for the preparation of future activities in the field of research and innovation. this will include the necessary quantum leap in simplification, which will be made possible by a common strategic framework, new rules for participation and – with your help – a revised user-friendly financial regulation. the commission looks forward to continuing this debate through the forthcoming discussions. against this background, your comments today and the questions that you raise will help to sharpen our understanding still further.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank mr audy for the excellent cooperation he has given me in the evaluation of the framework programme for research. the eu is facing a gigantic challenge. it comes from countries such as china, india, and brazil. these countries are experiencing great economic development. we must therefore become even better at creating growth and jobs through research and innovation otherwise the eu will be tied down by the knowledge race. the 7th framework programme has been successful, but there is room for improvement. i have three priorities in place when we are negotiating the 8th framework programme. we need to simplify the application and reporting procedures. we simply have to take on the bureaucracy. secondly, we must have the courage to invest in freedom and flexibility. researchers must be free to identify the most important areas of research, and the programme must be flexible enough to meet the challenges of tomorrow. it's a better way to get results. we also need to improve our ability to work and think in a multidisciplinary way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, a big thank you to the rapporteur who has put forward a very good report. i think, like the others, that we must remember the context of this report, and that is the youth crisis we are experiencing in europe. we have in common the general crisis, the towering youth unemployment and the young people actually moving out of europe to find work, and this is in my view a rather serious threat to our economy and our cohesion in europe in the years to come. the second context in which this report is set is the common 2020 targets we have set for education, employment and reducing early school leavers. it is about europe's competitiveness. it's about having a trained workforce that we know we're going to need. it is also important to ensure that a new generation has opportunities for employment and training. this is crucial. the european union may not have overwhelming competence in this area, but something can be done. it is a matter of common concern, and that is why we must ensure the quality of training and guidance. we must reduce the drop-out rate and ensure a strong link between education and working life, for example through exchange systems such as those we have in germany and denmark. we must also ensure that all young people have the right to education.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have read your question very carefully. that is why i have given you a very precise answer, based on the rules we have in the field of regional policy. the essence of these rules is that there are agreements with the member countries. these agreements cannot be unilaterally amended by the commission or the regions. i personally would like and welcome the use of the means already available today. i am here, as it were, as a living tibetan prayer wheel, going from conference to conference, from member country to member country, to promote the use of these funds which are already available today. as the development of renewable energy is one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy, i expect that there will definitely be a higher budget for this area in the next period, also from the regional policy title. i am sure that, in cooperation with mr oettinger, there will also be investment in the infrastructure of the transeuropean energy networks. if today regions want to redistribute funds in addition to the funds already available, then we are certainly very open to opening up this possibility, or at least to having serious discussions here. but again, we as the commission cannot unilaterally change these agreements.
member of the commission. - madam president, thank you very much for the question. as regards the absorption rate and its consideration in the allocation of funds in the coming period, i would refer to the existing rule on the ceiling on the allocation of funds. there is a rule that, with a view to a certain staggering of the budget per member state, only a certain amount, measured by the total gdp of a country, is available for structural policy. the annual allocation shall not exceed this ceiling. we shall certainly consider whether the level of the existing ceiling is justified and whether there is a need for adjustments to improve or guarantee capacity in the next period. as regards the achievement of the objectives of the programmes, i would remind you of the fifth cohesion report and the budget review, which made it clear that we need to look more closely at the performance of the programmes. and for the next period, a set of checks and incentives is envisaged in this respect, which the commission will propose in the legislative reporting package for cohesion policy post-2014. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the annual report on the implementation of the community's structural funds. around half of the eu budget is certainly made up of funds spent on multiannual activities. the court of auditors' audit of budget implementation always looks at the current year only, and this creates methodological challenges because there are about three levels of audit in the framework of regional policy, but the annual audit by the court of auditors starts after the first level of audit and therefore there will always be a higher error rate than at the end of a programme cycle, as we have already shown. in any case, my predecessor danuta hübner, together with parliament, also put forward an action plan here, the effectiveness of which is already visible, it has already had its effect. but one of these measures was also the possibility that a directorate-general could, in justified cases, suspend payments for up to six months. this instrument was used, for example, more than 50 times in the previous year. all these interruptions in payments were reversed before the deadline because the points of disagreement were resolved. i would also ask you to bear in mind, in the case of the error rate, that regional policy here, if you will, has a kind of snow plow function, that we check certain things that are developed legally, how they are implemented in daily practice, how they are ordered for their effectiveness and what problems arise. the issue of public procurement, for example, is a recurring topic of discussion with member states, regions and final beneficiaries. this sector accounts for about 70% of the error rate. if we succeed - we have taken the initiative with mr barnier - in simplifying this system, we will reduce the practical error here too. we are trying to do our homework in this area and to develop accordingly.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank commissioner hahn for a good reply which shows that these issues are being taken seriously. the problems have not been alleviated by the economic crisis, which means that many countries have difficulty in finding co-financing. does the commission give any particular thought to what this might mean for the next programming period? does the structural funds really help to develop these regions? do you get results? does the commission have any further thoughts on what can be done to tighten up the follow-up of the actual objectives overall objectives of development so that not only projects are delivered but also development?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i also think that we have here a very well balanced report with a clear but also very flexible mandate for the committee on budgets, which is to negotiate an agreement with the council, and i would like to repeat mrs hauch's call for it to be read and also for it to be read by the heads of government and finance ministers, who were quick to express their disapproval of the result. it has been a good and serious process, as has already been mentioned, and i would like to thank garriga polledo and mrs hauch for a good job. i would also like to thank the commission for its very active participation. in this way we have actually looked at all the parts of the eu budget and the different policy areas that we want to be reflected in the budget. so there has been a serious effort. is the result ambitious enough? i mean it. we are strengthening the 2020 strategy to equip the eu to meet the challenges of competition from china and other emerging economies and to shift to more renewable energy. i would have liked to see a more rigorous wording on the common agricultural policy and that we had also examined the possibilities of saving on the structural funds. it is money that the member states are getting back and are very keen to have. that is why i also think it is necessary that we have this possibility of a 5% increase, so that there is room for new policy areas and the opportunity to meet new challenges and to invest in transport, energy and research - things that the eu must invest in in the future. the eu budget is in order. the report we are debating and adopting today is about a ceiling on the eu budget. we are not talking about the money actually paid out, but about a ceiling, and under that ceiling there must be room for us to meet new challenges. we do not know what will happen between now and 2020, which is why i support this report.
mr president, yes, it is a very simple oral amendment replacing the word ‘harmonisation’ with ‘cooperation’ since this is more appropriate and more precise as we are talking about vocational training. (the president asked the speaker to read out the whole text of the amendment)so it will read: ‘takes the view that better cooperation among member states’ different education systems – bridging those differences and ensuring mutual recognition of certificates and diplomas among the member states – should be emphasised in order to heighten cross-border collaboration and aid mobility’.
mr president, sorry, could you tell me which subject we are on now? i did not hear it. (the president: ‘on coelho’)the romania/bulgaria acquis? thank you. hr. formand! vi har i dag stemt og vedtaget i parlamentet, at rumænien og bulgarien er klar til optagelse i schengen-samarbejdet. jeg betvivler ikke, at de rent teknisk er klar, og at man har gjort en meget stor indsats for at blive klar til optagelse. jeg synes dog, at der er en række grunde til, at vi burde tage den bekymring alvorligt, som hersker i de europæiske befolkninger på grund af den stigende korruption i mange medlemslande og den stigende grænseoverskridende kriminalitet. vi burde derfor have udnyttet denne situation til at forstærke vores politisamarbejde og forstærke kampen mod korruption, før vi gik med til en udvidelse af schengen. det er ikke et spørgsmål om at rette kritik mod de to lande, men et spørgsmål om at udnytte situationen til inden udvidelsen af schengen at forlange nogle relevante svar til de bekymrede borgere, der er vidne til den voksende kriminalitet i europa.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is a broad consensus in this house on the need for a reform of our research programme. i am sorry, however, that the commission is so vague and unambitious in its mid-term evaluation. it could be done much better, and much more could be done already. the commission could shorten the application deadlines, secure funding for demonstration plants and use international accounting standards instead of inventing its own. all of this creates a red tape that scares business away. it prevents europe from going from thinking to doing. that is why we must also reduce the number of programmes and bureaucracies and focus on the major challenges: climate change, energy and food - in short, creating jobs through our research. parliament has shown its will today. it is now up to the commission to show the way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have today voted the last of a long series of free trade agreements, and fortunately parliament is still generally in favour of free trade, including the agreement with canada. but the demand for sector-specific analyses is a recurring one. the impact assessment of the eu-canada agreement shows clear benefits for both parties. sector-specific analyses are simply looking for a reason to say no. because the truth is, there will always be winners and losers. our responsibility is to do what's best for the greatest number. free trade is best for consumers through greater choice and lower prices. it is better for companies because it expands their market and creates growth and jobs. free trade is the international division of labour which ensures that we all do what we do best and leave others to do what they do best.
mr president, i would like to thank you. but i would very much like to talk about this, because i think it is a little absurd that we are making provisions on csr here. it is very good that we can all probably agree that we will only conclude free trade agreements and partnerships with countries which respect human rights. it is already in the treaty, so to speak. but i think some politicians have forgotten what csr means. it means corporate social responsibility. it is a question of what companies do on their own responsibility, outside the law. it is used as a competitive parameter in business, and in this way it creates a drive for companies to do better and better and better themselves. if we come and steal this and make it into political legislation, we completely remove this competitive parameter, and that is - excuse me - political stupidity, stupidity, stupidity.
in writing. - i voted against bulgaria and romania being full members of schengen at the present time. the case of bulgaria, which has provided information from the schengen registers to the military police, shows that there are problems with the parts of schengen to which the countries are already a part of. in addition, there are problems of corruption and organised crime. europol points out that the full accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen will allow criminal groups from the balkans and the former soviet union easier access to the eu. as long as these problems are not resolved, the full integration of bulgaria and romania into schengen will, on the one hand, strengthen crossborder corruption and crime and, on the other hand, provide a welcome opportunity for certain forces to demand increased surveillance and undermining the rule of law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the falbr report, which aims to promote labour and social standards when the eu negotiates with third countries. the report draws on a number of ilo conventions and, on the basis of these, proposes that the eu should protect workers' rights and labour law rules when, for example, the eu concludes trade agreements with third countries. the report calls for a legal framework to set minimum standards for corporate social responsibility, for the concept to be better defined and for implementation to be better monitored. at the same time, the report rejects the use of the so-called mode4 in trade agreements, which means that international companies can import their own labour and thus circumvent the host country's social and labour conditions. this not only puts the imported labour force at a lower level than the host country's, but also contributes to social dumping. the eu now has the power to conclude trade agreements with third countries on behalf of all eu member states. i'm against that. but as long as this is the case, it is also necessary to make demands as to what these trade agreements should contain.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are already seeing that payments are going to be the problem this time and that there are a lot of countries in the council that do not want to pay. of course, we must find a solution to this. however, much depends on the ability of the member states to use the structural funds. i will make a great effort to ensure that in the 2012 budget the efforts to give priority to the energy sector do not fail. we must make sure that money is allocated to the so-called set plan for renewable energy. the projects are available and we must see to it that this plan is put into effect. we have to support it. secondly, there is the problem of the iter fusion energy project, where the commission is putting a lot of pressure on us. however, it is the council that should be put under pressure, because that is where the problem is at the moment. parliament is in favour of the project, but the commission knows that we are not in favour of the money being found by cutting other research appropriations.
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president! when we talk about the cities of the future, we know that the need for more mobility will grow. transport will become an even more important part of citizens' lives. many will move further into the countryside and be commuters to jobs near the cities. but to avoid pollution, traffic jams and time-consuming transport, we need to find new constellations such as free park-and-ride combined with flexible monthly passes for multiple modes of transport such as bicycles, motorcycles, car-sharing, metro, electric buses, subways, etc. without flexible transportation, cities will die. that is why we must think again quickly. even the car industry knows that it must think fast, otherwise companies outside europe will do so. they're preparing for a future of smarter cars and hybrid transportation. we should do the same as politicians. all this is fine, but i cannot understand why eu funds should be used for these measures, since it is in the regions' own interest to be attractive to citizens. in these times of crisis, i think we should finally stop asking for more money like spoiled teenagers.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a big thank you to corinne lepage for a great piece of work, which i hope will come through. i was interviewed on the bbc radio this morning for today's debate and i came to the main argument for gmos, namely that it will save the world from hunger! that's what we're gonna do! this is the future - a new green revolution! that's a powerful argument! we are impressed by this and i do not think that monsanto and syntech are the only ones who support it. i must say that gmos are part of the problem, not the solution. it is only a few months ago that we received the report of the un special rapporteur on the right to food, olivier de schutter, and he said very clearly that this is a very different path we have to take. we need to go small. we need to invest in genetic diversity instead of making large-scale industrial use. they will do the opposite. they will damage the case, and that is why i think we should stifle that argument and be honest about what we are doing, and, by the way, stop producing food for cars when we need food for people first and foremost.
mr president, i would like to thank you. no one knows the long-term consequences of gmos, and the science points in widely different directions. the consequences for nature and health are unpredictable, and i do not believe that animals and people should be used as living experiments. unfortunately, gmos are already legal around the world. it has cross-border implications, including in countries with strict restrictions in this area. that is why the legislation we are adopting is of the utmost importance. the citizens eat genetically modified meat and dairy products without knowing it because the farmers use genetically modified feed for the animals. i would like to see a global ban, but there is no majority for it, either here or globally, despite the fact that we are obliged to protect nature, people and animals. i thank the rapporteur for her extensive work. the corinne lepage report takes us a step in the right direction, namely that the national states can decide for themselves. i agree with that, but at the same time i am disappointed that gmo products remain part of european agriculture and food.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the creation of an agency to manage the major it systems - the schengen information system, the visa information system and eurodac for comparing fingerprints - creates good synergy. it creates economies of scale and maximises capital and human resources. as the representative of a member state which has reservations about judicial cooperation, i am particularly pleased that we have solved the legal problem of the participation and influence of such member states in the management of the information technology systems. we have been given clarity on the voting rights of the individual member states in the agency. finally, i should like to express my satisfaction that, at the same time as this regulation was adopted, we have tightened up the rules on data protection in the field of data security and data security in the field of personal data management.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i regret to say that i do not fully share the enthusiasm expressed by former colleagues that another agency is now being set up in the eu system. firstly, as members of parliament we are responsible for the way in which taxpayers' money is spent. we still have to see what the added value of the existing agencies is, and consequently we do not know the added value of the future it agency either. we have a large number of competent research units, universities and other institutes throughout the eu which could easily do the job that the new it agency is now facing without having to build new facilities, new frameworks and new institutions. i have therefore voted against the creation of the new agency, at least until we know what the added value of the new agencies and preferably the existing agencies might be.
mr president, this has been a very sensitive debate. i think it is fair to say that a number of eu member states had to review and amend their constitutions to ensure accession to the eu. the european parliament cannot accept one of the member states bending its constitution in a way that is not in conformity with eu values and fundamental rights. the hungarian constitution is alarming for a number of reasons. in particular, the constitution contains provisions that could lead to discrimination against certain groups in society, namely ethnic, religious and sexual minorities. i am content that we, the european parliament, have sent a strong message to the hungarian authorities. we will not accept a member state that does not explicitly protect all fundamental rights.
mr president, i would like to thank you. over the last year and a half, the european parliament has been presented with numerous reports, energy action plans and energy strategies. we have worked to set some ambitious targets, partly to make the world greener to live in, but also to create innovation and jobs. the vote we have had today has made a complete mockery of this house, because we have voted against virtually everything we have voted for over the last year and a half. there is therefore only one positive thing to be said about this vote, and that is that the whole report was rejected. this means at least that the objectives which we have set out in the various action plans, strategies and reports over the last year are still in place. if the report had been adopted today, they would have been overruled by the new, much less ambitious objectives, and that would not have served europe. and it is not in europe's interest that we should not be able to speak with one voice when it comes to international negotiations. it was a sad vote we witnessed today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the major challenges in the energy sector are well known: climate and security of supply. the challenge of infrastructure may have been less prominent in the debate. our energy infrastructure is outdated and not built for green energy supply with many different energy sources. without modern infrastructure, we can build wind turbines and biogas plants. it is of no use if we cannot get it to the end consumer; it should speak for itself. at the same time, we have the problem that our infrastructure is not connected across national borders. after 30 years of underinvestment, we need a quantum leap. a leap that requires 230 billion euros by 2020 and that the market must deliver simply because there is not enough public money for it and because it is actually the responsibility of the market.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it has been quite interesting in relation to the debate on the hungarians to hear several members here proclaim that the states have the right to break the treaty and to break the charter of fundamental rights on their own. it must be said that this has been very interesting and i strongly disagree, whereas i may be able to reach agreement with some of my colleagues on an area which also concerns sovereignty, namely social welfare benefits. the de rossa report is an echo of radio tirana: building a great european socialist welfare state. as a liberal, you have to distance yourself from that. that is why i have voted against the report today, which - although it has highlighted the worst of times - is moving in the wrong direction, in the socialist direction, and it has been tried before and is not worth recommending.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because of the workers who have been promised retraining and further training in connection with the mass firings at lindø shipyard. my vote does not mean that i support the eu's globalisation fund. on the contrary, i think that the eu's system of subsidies, where rich eu countries pay money to the eu so that the eu can then pay money back to them, is absurd. the lindø case illustrates this clearly. many months have passed since the municipalities concerned sent the application to the eu and the money is on its way to funen. meanwhile, some of the fired workers have returned to work. it is a good thing, but the many people who have been made redundant and have not found work have not received a penny for the training and retraining they were promised. everyone knows that the longer it takes, the harder it is to get back to work. if the money had been paid out by the danish state immediately, without having to go around brussels, the money would have been worth much more than it is now.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because of the workers who have been promised retraining and further training in connection with the mass firings at lm glasfiber. my vote does not mean that i support the eu's globalisation fund. on the contrary, i think that the eu's system of subsidies, where rich eu countries pay money to the eu so that the eu can then pay money back to them, is absurd. everyone knows that the longer it takes, the harder it is to get back to work. yet, even after approval, it takes months for the money from the eu's globalisation adjustment fund to be disbursed. if the money had been paid out by the danish state immediately, without having to go around brussels, the money would have been worth much more than it is now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think that the commission has come into its own with this proposal for a multiannual budgetary framework. it's an offensive play. it meets the challenge of the coming years to ensure economic progress while making a significant shift away from reliance on fossil fuels. with an unchanged budgetary framework, the commission has found the money for a significant investment in research, training and investment in energy and transport networks, and this should be a cause for excitement, also in my own country, denmark, where a cross-border interconnection of electricity networks will make wind power more profitable, and where we would like to see a large eu contribution to the fehmarn link, to be built precisely in the coming period 2014-2020. the money has been found through a cut in direct agricultural aid. a modest cut, but one which means that the new member states can get more and that the historically conditional aid to the old member states is being reduced a little. i am glad that the commission is also taking up the debate on new own resources and is putting the discounting system on the line. i come from a country that pays dearly for other countries' discounts - so dearly that we now come and ask for discounts ourselves, and that is why i think it is time we had new own resources for the eu. we need a fairer, simpler and more transparent system of own resources, so i thank you for the outcome and hope that this is where we land.
mr president, i would like to thank you. - i'm not going to lie to you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking mrs kratsa for this very important report and not least for a very courageous report. equality between men and women is a fundamental part of the eu's fundamental values and we all have a moral obligation to ensure equal treatment of women and men. and this is also true of the representation of women in economic life and, consequently, in the management of our companies. but equal representation on boardrooms is not just a matter of fundamental rights. it also makes good economic sense, especially at a time when europe is in the midst of a prolonged economic crisis. if we are to get out of the crisis, we have to tap into all the talents of europe, and when women are both getting the longest education and leaving the institutions with the highest grades, it is good old-fashioned common sense that women should of course have the same opportunities as men to become leaders. we simply cannot afford to recruit leaders from only one half of the population. today we can absolve women of the responsibility for the financial crisis. women were not present in the decision-making bodies of the banks. women are not at all in european companies, and there is no sign that this will change if we do not take action. if companies cannot ensure that women get on board, then we politicians must take action. we must introduce legislation to ensure women's access to management positions in companies.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the report provides a realistic analysis of the current situation of declining output, higher unemployment, high public debt and the need for far-reaching reforms to restore europe's competitiveness. it places greater emphasis on an integrated internal market, better fiscal coordination and the elimination of ineffective subsidies and the fight against ineffective monetary support. i am very pleased with a chapter on small and mediumsized enterprises, which are very important for growth in europe. it's not like we have anything to disagree about. unfortunately, very few citizens in the member states want the super-federalist approach which the report unfortunately also proposes. i am thinking of course of paragraph 99 and amendments referring to the need for a european union budget of 5-10% of the union budget. it is an incredibly bad and frivolous proposal, which is far from good - it is out of step with the wishes of the majority of the citizens of the member states.
i have to say, madam president, after two years of tug-of-war, we have finally reached agreement on new rules on food information for consumers. the left would have liked to see us have more ambitious rules. we're not gonna hide that from you. it is not that we should dictate what people eat from a political point of view, but in a confused everyday life it can be difficult to see what is in each food. we must therefore make it easy and simple to see how healthy or unhealthy the food is. the mandatory 100 g nutrition declaration is still at the centre. the left would also like to see a common system for the share of a food in the daily calorie intake. we didn't quite make it to the finish line. the gdr will be governed by more realistic and fair rules, so it is, after all, a step forward, and that is why we have today agreed to the compromise with the council.
i have to say, madam president, i regret that i have had to vote against the berès report today. the report does not deal in sufficient detail with what is really at stake - firstly, the fact that we have created too much public debt in the individual countries of europe, and secondly, the lack of competitiveness. that is why we in europe are having a hard time getting by. it is not enough to simply create more liquidity. we must restore competitiveness. point 99 on a european budget of 5-10% of the union's gdp is a bad and frivolous proposal which is completely out of step with the wishes of the majority of citizens in the member states. it's an academic proposal with no real team. we are here to represent the people of the member states, and the idea of transferring up to 10% of the gdp of the countries has no place in the world, not even in this parliament.
in writing. − the provision of broadband and high-speed broadband for all citizens by 2020 is a key criterion in securing the future growth and competitiveness of our economy. the internet and ict services account for 55% of all productivity growth; they generate new business opportunities and expand the field for existing businesses and promote social inclusion and cohesion. but we are still a long way from this. it demands strong political decisions, a leap in investment levels and innovation. it will not be easy. we need to show the political will, which is what we have done today. secondly, we need to take some tough political decisions that allow the development of the different technologies. we need them all: copper, fibre, cable, satellite and mobile. we need to stay technology-neutral and let the market decide. but we also need to create the framework conditions that give each of these technologies a level playing field. the goal is set – now let us get to work.
in writing. - i am glad that we have adopted this own-initiative report for two reasons. firstly, it is absolutely essential to guarantee the fundamental right of the individual to privacy that we require protection against surveillance and abuse of personal data. secondly, for the sake of cross-border trade, we need a uniform level of protection of personal data at eu level. this is necessary to ensure a level playing field for economic operators and to avoid market distortions. the risk of misuse of personal data has reached unprecedented dimensions due to technical developments. this, together with the differences in data protection laws across countries, makes it imperative that we have an effective global data protection framework. i therefore hope that the commission and the council will take this report into account in their further work on the protection of personal data in the eu.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. what is democracy? is that the right to vote every five years? no, i'm not going. in a true democracy, elections are just a parenthesis in the democratic process that takes place between elections. the question is whether the proposal for 25 meps on european lists will strengthen democracy between elections. will it reduce the distance between the voters and the elected? i think that this group will be even more detached from the electorate. at the same time, the proposal will mean more meps for the large countries. if you want a large number of votes for a european list, you will not put forward a leading candidate from finland or malta. in return, candidates from germany, france and england are nominated. in short, the proposal will lead to less diversity, less accountability and less democracy. i would like to thank mr duff for the great work he has done, but i cannot support the motion. (the president agreed to answer a blue card question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, i would like to thank you. no, i do not agree with that at all, because the whole point is to draw up a european list, and where will those who are chosen from this european list be chosen? how many voters are there in germany? how many voters are there in malta? how many voters are there in france? how many voters are there in finland? how many voters are there in england? how many voters are there in cyprus? it is quite clear that this proposal is another way of implementing the mathematical formula of strengthening the large countries in relation to the small countries.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the danish social democrats are not opposed to the european parliament having access to the 'shadow budget' - the csdp 'shadow budgets' (athena and the future start-up fund). however, we do not think that this report, which deals with the division of powers between the national parliaments and the european parliament in the field of the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy, is the appropriate place to express this view. the danish social democrats therefore voted against amendment no 4 but in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we have not voted for the resolution on the distribution of food to the most deprived people in the european union. the proposal for a resolution contains many important and good proposals aimed at helping the most disadvantaged people in the european union. we recognize this and we consider the basic idea of the programme to be important. the fight against poverty is an important task. however, we cannot vote for the report because we do not believe that such programmes should be financed by agricultural aid. we believe, however, that programmes such as this should be a national matter in the long term and that until then the programme should be financed by the social funds. we also do not believe that consideration of farmers' income and earnings should be included in a decision on the distribution of food to the most disadvantaged people in the eu. we believe that the programme and the criteria used to categorize people as 'socially disadvantaged' should be evaluated and possibly re-evaluated.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the revision of the frontex regulation, which is the act regulating the surveillance of our external borders, is of particular importance. our common external borders are under pressure. in particular, this spring we saw our external borders in southern europe come under tremendous pressure. it is important to remember that europe shares its borders. that is why, during the election campaign two years ago, we in the liberal party of denmark emphasized the importance of all countries contributing to the protection of our common borders. we are therefore naturally pleased that it has now been possible to ensure that this will also happen in the future, not only because it is important to keep an electoral promise but also because the external borders are what create the framework of the community of which we are all a part. it is therefore not only of practical but also of very great symbolic importance.
mr president, i would like to thank you. with this own-initiative report we welcome the commission's green paper on audit policy. the financial crisis has shown us that auditors can indeed play a key role in strengthening supervision, especially with financial institutions. i am therefore pleased that we have sent a very clear signal today that there is a need to increase the transparency and quality of the work of audit firms. this is essential to improve both the quality of the financial market and access to finance. we call on the commission to put forward proposals to ensure the independence of the auditors while maintaining, of course, the quality, accuracy and thoroughness of the auditors.
mr president, i would like to thank you. older women are probably more at risk of poverty than men, and they may also be more unemployed and have lower retirement savings than men - at least for now. because all the evidence is that women are getting more education than men today. that is why it is not certain that this situation will last for so long. i suppose that because women live longer, there's something about them being more at risk of loneliness. these are very real problems, but why on earth should the eu be involved in this ? i simply do not understand. the solution is not specific measures for women, the solution is general conditions on the labour market for all, so that everyone has an easier time reconciling family and working life and has the opportunity and incentive to work, so that everyone is encouraged to save for retirement, so that we create equal opportunities and equality. it's really about equal opportunity.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in 2008, we adopted a directive on mediation in civil and commercial matters, and member states have now transposed the directive into their national legislation. we are already seeing successful results with the mediation directive. in several member states, legislation has made mediation a realistic, cheap and quick alternative to litigation. nevertheless, we need more knowledge of mediation, and that is why we are now asking the commission to examine good practice in mediation in the member states and to take further measures to ensure that mediation is increasingly disseminated and known.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the lack of raw materials, and especially of rare earths, is a major challenge for our economy. the lack of raw materials is a major challenge in itself. but the problem is also that many of the large stocks in the surrounding countries are not managed according to the same rules as in the eu. in addition, there are very protectionist tendencies around the world. there is the question of conflict minerals. the solution is not that the eu should create a buying mechanism. in fact, we've tried that before, and it's proven to be ineffective. the eu and our foreign service must put pressure on the countries concerned through the wto, the g20 and bilateral relations, with the aim of transparency and equal access. once we have achieved that, we must ensure that the markets take care of it, and leave the rest to the markets. it's a much better solution than creating a buyback mechanism.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the deepwater horizon was a natural disaster of historic proportions, and it is therefore entirely appropriate that we in the eu should review our legislation in this area. some of the changes that the united states is making now we have already made in the european community. but of course, the gaps that exist must be closed! it is true that this is primarily the responsibility of the member states, but we need better coordination and we would like to see the good regional cooperation in the north sea extended to other eu regions. we must make it clear that it is always the polluter who pays and we must ensure that our safety measures are always verified by independent experts.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is difficult to disagree with the main idea of the report, namely that women can also be entrepreneurs. of course they can! i actually know a lot of very, very good contractors. it is also difficult to disagree with the fact that the member states should ensure measures to facilitate the reconciliation of family and working life and that the member states and the commission, and also we in this parliament, should improve the framework conditions for small and mediumsized enterprises. but why should it be of particular benefit to women entrepreneurs? could we not simply say, instead of throwing ourselves around with all this victim mentality, that we must ensure that there are good conditions for all those who want to start their own businesses? then each man and woman must decide for himself whether he wants to be a contractor or not.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it states that the eu's strategy to combat international terrorism should be based on the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights, and that the focus should be on preventing terrorism and promoting dialogue, tolerance and understanding between different cultures. the fact that i voted in favour of the report should not be taken as an indication that i support further harmonisation of judicial and police cooperation at european level.
the committee on petitions has also adopted a number of amendments. mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on petitions for their good cooperation and support in enabling us to make the contribution to eva lichtenberger's report which we very much welcome. the active participation of citizens is an important prerequisite for the enforcement of legislation. without it we cannot do so, and i would like to make a very important point here, which is with us and which i have fortunately won the support of the majority, namely the infringement procedures. it is not fair that the citizens cannot see what happens when the commission responds and when the member states respond in kind. the fact is that a prerequisite for living up to both the aarhus convention and the promises made in the treaty is that we have a proper transparency of access to documents. the improvement of these conditions is also a concern of the report by mrs judith sargentini. in conclusion, let me say that we are pleased - i am pleased, i have a majority for - we are very pleased to hear again what eva lichtenberger said about the importance of having proper and clear procedures for how these reports are dealt with and how we ensure transparency. i would refer to article 298 of the treaty and, of course, to the aarhus convention.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank commissioner šefčovič and willy meyer for their work. i do not want to stand here and repeat what my colleagues have said. i agree with most of it, but i would just say to the commissioner that it is actually a problem that people do not think that human rights should play that role. we have heard from the commission in committee that, for example, the copenhagen criteria could only be used when a country was to be included. it is not good for our credibility if all these fundamental values can be ignored. but we're gonna have a hearing on it soon. let's keep it that way. i should like to use my speaking time here to describe first of all the rather poor conditions which i think parliament gives to our committees. our committee is the citizens' committee. we are very proud of it when we talk about citizens' rights from the outside, but when it comes down to it, we are in poor conditions. the website is too advanced. you can't find our committee. now i hear you can complain electronically, and i'm glad of that. i have not yet experienced that, but it is good to hear. that's news. thank you for that. we also need better resources so that we can occasionally conduct our own investigations, including those relating to legal investigations. normally the commission is doing well, but it would be nice if we could respond better to the many complaints that come in. we must not forget that citizens have a treaty right to come to us with complaints. finally, two things which i do not think are being treated well enough either. the neutrality of the committee, that is to say, that it is a second-tier committee, means that very often its members cannot be present and take care of the work of the committee. it is a very bad signal to send to the citizens, who feel that they are not being respected. and lastly, the name of the committee is something that is completely incomprehensible, at least in danish and in finnish and swedish: 'the committee on petitions'. it's a dead word of chancellor, which no soul knows what it's about. it should be a narrow matter as a name to give the committee a name that the citizens know, such as 'committee on citizens' complaints'.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i am not sure that this is the case. for norway there is a before and after 22 july. for us in scandinavia, this day was in many ways our september 11. the attack was not directed at random people, it was a direct attack on norwegian democracy. it was even more than that. the attack on utøya was also a carefully planned attack on the leaders of tomorrow's norwegian labour movement. it was an attack on the future. the youth organisation of the labour party in norway was not an accidental target. in its fight against racism, for tolerance, against inequality, for social justice, against oppression and for international solidarity, it represents all that the mass murderer loathed. as cruel as it was, we can learn nothing from the massacre itself, but we can learn an incredible amount from the way in which the norwegian prime minister and the norwegian people reacted. others in similar situations might have demanded revenge, declared war on terror and implemented one curtailment of democratic rights after another. but not stoltenberg. he insisted that the response to this act of terrorism was even more democracy, even more openness and even more humanity. this position was supported by the norwegian people. throughout norway and the rest of scandinavia, hundreds of thousands of people have taken part in demonstrations this summer against terrorism and in defence of democracy and tolerance. the message of these demonstrations has been crystal clear: evil can kill a man, but it can never defeat a people.
mr president, i would like to thank you. energy is a commodity traded on a par with all other commodities. nevertheless, the energy market has some specific characteristics which we must take into account. we are still in the process of developing a competitive internal energy market. there are opaque and unfair trading practices which harm competition and cause some dramatic price fluctuations to the detriment of businesses and consumers. it is therefore good that we have adopted the report by mr chatzimarkakis today, but i would say that this is not the end of it. we must have a well-functioning, transparent internal market in energy services so that consumers can benefit from not only the most energy-friendly, but also the most affordable energy being delivered to households.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am proud to say that i come from a country which has a tradition of implementing directives adopted at pan-european level as quickly as possible. this is an independent objective in denmark. but this creates a huge competitive problem, not least for danish agriculture, when we can see that a large number of countries in our community are taking the protectionist route and are choosing to implement the directives long after they have been adopted. on such premises a community cannot function. that is why it is good that we have taken this step with the eva lichtenberger report today. we call on the commission to propose clear procedural rules obliging the commission to set binding deadlines for member states to comply with the judgments of the court of justice and to give the citizens of the union answers as quickly as possible and in a proper manner to infringement cases.
mr president, i would like to thank you. although we (most of us) have a common european cause to fight for, and although our eu institutions are also an expression of a common european cause to fight for, politics is very much a question of power struggles. and when you have these power struggles, it is quite important - if they are to be conducted on an equal basis and on equal terms - that we have equal access to the documents. i am therefore pleased that we have adopted this report today and i am particularly pleased that this report focuses on creating common rules for the classification of documents. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is quite excellent that we are getting some new consultation procedures for commissioners here in parliament. but that does not solve europe's real problem, namely that we have a commission that is far too weak compared with the member states. i think that the discussions that have been held on schengen, border controls and the situation of debt crises in many european countries due to their inability to live up to the stability pact, testify to the fact that we have a commission that is far too weak. it would therefore be much more natural if we were to discuss today whether the president of the commission should not be appointed by the european parliament, so that the president of the commission is always responsible for european thinking rather than for the more or less powerful heads of government in each country. because what we need in the crisis we are facing at the moment is not less europe, but more europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is with the reduction of the administrative burden on our companies like with the weather: everyone talks about it and nobody does anything about it. politicians like us tend to think we know what the good life is, to think we know how to run a business. in the current european crisis, there is now a discussion in many national states that we should implement a 'pick the winner' strategy, that is, that we as politicians should define what the right production is. that is not the way forward. the best thing we can do to reduce the burden on businesses is to focus on making the single market work where it does not, so that our businesses have one big market. because our biggest challenge in europe is that we have perhaps the largest economy in the world, but our market is far too small.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this year marks the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the community's single market package. a community package to ensure the free movement of goods, services, capital and persons. in denmark, where i come from, there are elections at the moment and there are elections tomorrow. if the socialist opposition comes to power, the government will introduce that young people who choose to go outside denmark to gain skills after finishing their education will have to pay back their education allowance. in other words, you are building a new berlin wall, where you will not only control whether people are allowed to cross the border, but you will also control whether they are allowed to go out into the world. i hope that these young people will use our committee on petitions to ensure that their freedom of movement in the european communities is also guaranteed in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. fortunately, the fight against climate change is still high on the political agenda, even though we have an economic crisis, and that is a good thing. i also think that we in the european parliament can be quite proud that we have managed, by a very large majority, to put forward some very ambitious plans in connection with our energy strategy and for that matter also in the field of energy efficiency, which is one of the best ways of achieving lower co2 emissions. so all of this is excellent. that said, we also have to acknowledge that there has been a downside to focusing so heavily on co2. the problem is that we may have forgotten to focus on other greenhouse gases that also affect the climate. so it is good that we now ourselves recognise that a wider focus is needed and it is also good that we are now being asked to encourage the commission to integrate other greenhouse gases into climate policy so that we can have a broad and effective response.
in writing. the doha round sets out to bring about a general review of the wto's trade rules: better global governance, sustainable development and better conditions for international trade and investment. the doha development round, launched in 2011, is highly topical from an international trade point of view and i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has adopted this proposal. i voted in favour of the resolution because it stresses the importance of following up on the commitments of wto members to help developing countries in particular to benefit from the wto rules, including by ensuring access to the markets of the developed countries. i am pleased that the s&d group's chairman of the committee on international trade, vital moreira, has focused on ensuring that the positive effects of globalisation also benefit the developing countries. the difficulties in reaching a conclusion to the doha round have been well known since the negotiations stalled in 2008, and 2011 is considered the year when it will finally be possible to negotiate an agreement in place at the wto's eighth ministerial conference in geneva in mid-december. i can only give my full support to the resolution and the statement that the geneva ministerial conference should at least produce results for the benefit of the least developed countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are in a unique situation now and i would like to take up the matter with mr pöttering because he said exactly what was important to be said. there is a great movement in north africa, in the middle east, in palestine, and we support everywhere the fully legitimate right of peoples to be allowed to live in freedom and in a state of law. the only way we can help the palestinians now is by peaceful and completely legal means, namely by supporting them in the un. this will be of immense benefit to the eu. but it's also israel's only chance. the promised land is becoming the lost land. extremist, religious, nationalist fanatics have completely taken over the government, and we are abandoning the peace wing of israel. i have heard so many of their cries now: come and help us! we will not get out of this mess as long as the united states gives up and europe remains passive and is more concerned with agreeing than with fulfilling its obligations. i would therefore like to make a real appeal to the council and the commission and the high representative: act now. choose the path of peace. support the peace movements in north africa and in palestine and israel! they deserve our help.
mr president, i just want to ask mr gahler if he is really comparing illegal settlement building and so on with a totally legal approach in the united nations. how can he call it unilateral when it is applied in a multilateral context? are you really comparing illegal acts in israel with a legal approach in the un?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have already voted in advance for the danish elections, and that is why i can allow myself to be here today. i'm excited about the results, too. but first of all, thank you very much for a very, very fine and necessary resolution on ncds, the non-communicable diseases. we have a great need both globally and in the eu to put more focus on these diseases because we can actually prevent them. millions of citizens have a poor quality of life when they get the diseases, and millions of citizens have a shorter life because of them. so i support the decision completely. but i also think it is important to say that we need to act now. we must not forget that we must continue to have a specific focus on some of the diseases. this means that we must also define specific strategies, for example for diabetes, for example for cancer, etc. in the eu, 32 million citizens have diabetes and 32 million are in the early stages of diabetes. there is a lot, a lot to be done, also in the specific areas. we must not forget that. that is why i am pleased to say that the danish presidency of the european union, which will come into the first half of 2012, will focus precisely on ncds, with a particular focus also on diabetes. i think that is the way to do it, so that we can really put words into action here in the european union.
i have to say, madam president, as the chairman said at the opening of the meeting, troy davis was liquidated in the united states on thursday. immediately before his execution, he lifted his head from the stake to which he was strapped and said to the audience: "i am innocent! he also called for further investigation and for the truth to be revealed. we must say that murder is always abhorrent, even when it is committed by states. it is even worse for us when it happens in a country with which we have traditionally had good relations. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its opposition to the death penalty. i would therefore like to support the president's appeal on behalf of parliament to the american authorities once again and to express our disapproval of the recent executions in the united states.
in europe we are actually great at research. the problem is that we are lousy at innovation. us companies obtain more than twice as many patents per year as european companies. we cannot afford to spend millions of euros and not get full use from them. therefore we need a much more focused and result-driven research programme. we need a direct route from research to retail. we need industry to participate, especially smes. finally, we need the commission to dramatically simplify its grant procedures. the ideas and talents are out there; it is time for europe to move.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the earthquake in haiti and the floods in pakistan, and not least the events in japan this spring, have shown us that we need a common european approach and strategy for disaster management. it is not useful to send several different and uncoordinated protection teams from the member states and to have them arrive at very different times in the disaster areas. as mr mastella said a moment ago, the treaty of lisbon provides us with a new legal basis for taking the right decisions and coordinating our actions. let us, however, use this new tool actively.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because of the overall support for the palestinian authority and the possibility for palestine to trade with the eu countries. it is not to be taken for granted that i generally support trade liberalisation in the forms and on the terms proposed by the eu. but in this case, where it is a question of supporting the palestinians to sell their goods and thus strengthen their own independent economy, i weigh this more than the criticisms i have of the eu's trade policy in general.
in writing. - we voted against the recommendation. the proposed new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde provides for a reference quota of 5000 tonnes of fish. however, this reference quota may be increased by a payment of eur 65 for each additional tonne of fish caught, thus excluding a decided ceiling on the quantity of catches. in view of the relatively low cost of each additional tonne of fish caught - in relation to the value of the fish - an economic incentive for eu fishermen to fish above the reference quota could easily arise and thus contribute to overfishing of fish stocks in cape verdean waters.
in writing. − the purpose and idea behind the european schools - that pupils should be able to receive education in their mother tongue - is positive and something we should support. this has not always been easy, and some groups of pupils will be disadvantaged in receiving mother tongue instruction in the future. i would urge that in future efforts be made to accommodate all groups so that pupils without a language section of their own (swals pupils) can also receive instruction in their mother tongue. at the same time, the multicultural element of the european schools is important and attention should also be paid to the importance of pupils who are proficient in several languages. students with strong language skills will be strong in a global job market. in my own country, a european school is currently being drawn up and i hope that it will be realized. there is a need to offer attractive conditions for foreign employees, and this is not just the case in denmark. it is essential that international school provision can be offered in all member states. i voted in favour of this report on the european schools because i think it is good and balanced and i look forward to continuing to follow the important work on the european schools.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. we do not believe that more agricultural aid and storage of agricultural products will effectively alleviate hunger and poverty in third world countries, as stated in paragraph 3 of this report. the reason why we have voted in favour of the report is that it contains other good elements and that we believe that it is essential to ensure good opportunities for agriculture in the developing countries. this is done, among other things, by giving farmers in developing countries access to other markets.
in writing. − the report refers to the commission's 2010 communication 'trade, growth and world affairs', which sets out a number of guidelines for the eu's future trade and investment policy. i support the commission's communication and its proposals on how we meet the need for a future european trade policy. i am doing this because it is necessary to consolidate the eu's role as a trading power at a time when the world economy is under pressure and we are experiencing a rapid shift in the balance of economic power. the fact is that the eu's overall trade performance is declining and its share of gdp is declining because of the rapid growth of emerging countries. i voted in favour of this report because i support its view that the commission's communication should not only contain guidelines for the trade policy to be pursued by the european union, but should also contain a real eu trade strategy which takes account of the trends which both shape and affect world trade.
i have to say, madam president, thank you, baroness ashton. i think we can almost all agree that it is good that the palestinians have come so far and i think there is broad support for the palestinians to have their state. but israel needs help too! today, in addition to the horrific reports about the many new settlements in gilo, the haaretz newspaper has also been quoted as comparing israel to the titanic. if no one stops israel now, they will continue to sail toward disaster. it is therefore important that we do more than just mention all the things that are to happen. israel is going on and on and on because no one is stopping the incumbent government. the cry of distress that i have heard from so many quarters comes not least from israelis who say that things are going wrong. therefore, mrs ashton, much more needs to be done than simply to deplore this once again devastating decision on settlements. and i also think that there is much more to be done than just condemn it. we actually have the means to tell israel that it is time to stop if this whole situation is to end in something other than violence and horror.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr president of the commission, thank you for your speech. i have to say, actually, this is the first time in two years that i actually believe anything you're saying. i thought you gave a good speech today. but having said that, i would also say that we are facing a very serious crisis, both politically and economically. that is why we need to put that talk into action. you have to show us results, and you have to show us concrete proposals. i would like to make a few comments on this because something is needed that goes far beyond what is on the table at the moment. a comprehensive, coordinated european crisis plan is needed to ensure sustainability, sustainability and social justice. we need three things: 1) a firm assurance to the markets that we are standing shoulder to shoulder with the euro there must be no more spin in the wheel, and you must take the lead; 2) we cannot afford to spare ourselves for new growth and employment - we need an investment and job plan; 3) the focus must be on the revenue side again in europe. thank you for your proposal for a financial tax we have waited a long time. mr barroso, we must put into practice what you have said today. we must stop believing that austerity and appearances can save europe. we need to have a comprehensive, comprehensive crisis strategy, and that's your main task for the next few months.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we talk all the time about the eu being in an economic crisis, and if you look around the world, it's hard to disagree. the eu is losing competitiveness every day to china, india, south america and a host of other regions that are getting better and better education, spending more and more money on research, lowering taxes and keeping wages down. the eu is lagging behind on the world economic stage. so today we hear the eu's answer to this problem: it is redistribution. it's government aid. ladies and gentlemen, i must point out that it was state aid and redistribution that brought the eu into the morass, the deroute, in which the eu finds itself today. the only answer, however, that the bureaucrats in brussels, the bureaucrats here in strasbourg and the vast majority of the european parliament who love to spend other people's money give is: more of the same. more of what led the eu astray. this is not going to solve the problem, it's making the problem bigger!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that the globalisation fund is now being extended until 2014. i am quite sure that all those who have lost their jobs as a result of the global crisis have been happy with the efforts made by the globalisation fund. it is never pleasant to lose your job, and if you do, it is important to start targeted training or retraining as soon as possible to increase your chances of finding a new job. the globalisation fund has helped many people here, as i said, and that is good. unfortunately, the time taken to deal with cases is far too long and efforts should be made to reduce it. there is an average processing time of the next 300 days, and to this must be added a few more months before the money is paid out. that means that it is almost a year away! it also means that the time you have to spend the money is actually reduced to one year. that needs to be looked at. it can be done better.
in writing. - we support the resolution on palestine, but the desire to reach a common position at eu level must not prevent member states, if they so wish, from following parliament's recommendation to recognise the legitimate demands of the palestinians for recognition as a state at the 66th general assembly of the united nations.
in writing. - we can generally agree with the concern about oil extraction in environmentally vulnerable areas. but we cannot vote for the specific proposal (article 39) because it does not deal with the question of compensation for the developing countries which it affects, such as greenland.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we voted yes to the motion for a resolution. there is legal uncertainty as to whether the new protocol to the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement is in line with international law. since the eu treaties require the eu to respect international law, the protocol's incompatibility with international law would mean that we are not respecting our own treaties. we therefore believe that it is important to request a judicial assessment by the court of justice of the european union in order to determine the legality of the current protocol.
in writing. - sf considers that the fixing of vat rates is a matter for the member states alone. we support the david casa report because it contains many good initiatives in terms of efficiency, bureaucratization and proposals for the harmonization of vat systems. however, proposals aimed at removing the member states' competence in the field of vat rates cannot be supported by the sf.
in writing. the danish social democrats are of the opinion that the fixing of vat rates is the sole competence of the member states. we support the report by mr david casa (a7-0318/2011), which contains many good initiatives in terms of efficiency, de-bureaucratisation and proposals for the useful harmonization of vat systems. the danish social democrats cannot, however, support proposals aimed at removing the member states' competence in the matter of vat rates.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the future of the vat system because the eu should not interfere in the tax policies of the member states. the negative consequences of eu intervention were most recently seen in the european commission's action against denmark on the issue of vat exemption for voluntary associations.
in writing. - sf considers that the fixing of vat rates is a matter for the member states alone. we support the david casa report because it contains many good initiatives in terms of efficiency, bureaucratization and proposals for the harmonization of vat systems. however, proposals aimed at removing the member states' competence in the field of vat rates cannot be supported by the sf.
in writing. - i have to admit that the eu has expanded powers in the field of trade. in this case i voted for these to be used to introduce the un protocol on the trade in firearms, as this protocol will provide clear rules in this area. this does not change the fact that i do not support the eu's extended powers in the field of trade in general.
in writing. - i voted against the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. the eu is blatantly failing to address the widespread corruption and organised crime that plagues the two countries. and that the responsible governments should concentrate on fighting for the benefit of the bulgarian and romanian populations first and foremost.
for the ppe group. mr president, i thank the commissioner for his commitment to small and mediumsized enterprises. the small business act is the umbrella that will cover the legislation surrounding our small and medium-sized businesses. there are three things that are important when we discuss this: it is 1) access to capital, 2) access to markets, which we have discussed today, and 3) a tackling of the administrative burdens. there is no doubt that the economic crisis makes it much more difficult for smes to access capital. i look forward to the commission's approach, where guarantees will be provided to ensure that healthy and well-functioning smes have access to capital. of course, access to markets implies a well-functioning internal market. but it also includes an opportunity for small and mediumsized enterprises to come out and share in the growth of the new emerging countries. i am talking about china, india, brazil and elsewhere. we know that they have high growth rates and if we want growth to increase in europe, our small and mediumsized enterprises must have access to these markets and we must help them to do so. finally, there is no doubt that when we are fighting bureaucracy, it is important that the national states - but also that we in the european parliament - act on our own behalf. the point is that we know that the implementation of the capital requirements directive 4 means greater cushioning for the banks. this in turn means that it goes beyond the banking market for smes. there is therefore a need to support legislation in this area.
i have to say, madam president, i thank the rapporteur for his report. i would like to begin by saying that this report is fundamentally sympathetic and that the green group can fully support it. it is true that the right to live and work in another eu country is one of the fundamental freedoms of the eu, and we must protect and develop it. but we in the green group would like to introduce the concept of 'proper mobility'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we see discrimination against workers from other eu countries in relation to danish workers, and this is not acceptable. i do not think that we as a society can accept a division of our labour markets and pressure on wages and working conditions. the commission has therefore decided to increase its efforts to combat discrimination and social dumping. member states must do more to enforce national rules. we need more controls, more information, more outreach and a consistent effort on the part of the european union to ensure that mobility also remains in good working conditions.
i have to say, madam president, there is complete agreement in the committee on budgetary control to recommend that no discharge be given to the council. i would therefore like to know whether this is still the position of the socialist group? i do not think there was a clear message on that question. there are rumours that the socialist group decided at its last meeting to change its position and will now vote to grant the council discharge. i would like to know whether that is the case and, if so, what are the arguments for the socialist group's change of position. the rumour is that it is about the new president of parliament, but i would like to hear jens geier's explanation.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, i thank the rapporteur and the committee on budgetary control for their clear and unanimous position. we cannot approve the council's accounts on the present basis. the situation is not new. in the spring of 2009, we postponed the approval of the council's accounts until the autumn. here it was approved only because the council made some concessions. not many, but it was moving in the right direction of more cooperation and more openness. the same thing happened in 2010. but this year has been different. for example, as we have heard, the council continues to refuse to answer our questions. and how can we approve an account when we can't get answers to even the simplest of questions? of course we cannot, at least not with our self-respect intact. i regret, and i very much regret, that the majority of the s&d group has changed its position. i regret that we no longer have unanimity in the committee on budgetary control, but that the s&d group has chosen to go it alone. but i hope and am sure that there will still be a majority in this parliament which will fight for greater openness and transparency, also in the council's accounts.
member of the commission. - mr grech, thank you for that question. it gives me the opportunity, in the context of this great project to reconcile citizens, consumers or economic actors, and small and mediumsized enterprises with the market, because both have felt so much that this large market is not for them, that it is rather a space of constraints rather than a space opening up prospects, it gives me the opportunity, i said, to pay tribute to the work of your committee, to this work that you yourself have begun in the line of the mario monti report. mr grech, we have taken up one of your ideas in this document, in the form of the 20 main points of concern, as well as the very idea of this 'hat', as mr harbour knows, of the single market act, the name having come from the european parliament. i wanted to pay tribute to the work that we are doing in good faith, the commission and parliament. i attach great importance to the follow-up of these 20 major areas of concern. i am not, and never will be, in favour of any intellectual, ideological or theoretical regulation. we are dealing with very concrete issues, practical concerns, obstacles, which we are going to be raising one by one and on which we will be reporting once a year at each of these forums. i think the idea of the charter of internal market rights, which came out of the krakow forum, is very positive. we need to have a clear and practical tool that helps citizens and businesses to understand their rights, to enforce them, to implement them. we are already doing this with the 'europe is yours' portal, which serves as a handbook on european rights, and the idea of this charter you have announced could provide a much wider audience with information on these rights and their implementation. i will support this idea because, as you know and as you want, it is a practical idea for citizens and smes, and i will support it all the more because, together with other ideas, it will bring what we are doing here together in parliament, with the commission and the council, closer to citizens, businesses and the field.
member of the commission. - mr van de camp, you raise an extremely important issue which, in our view, represents a serious reserve for growth and competitiveness in europe, through the proper implementation of the services directive which has already removed many obstacles in the sectors covered by this directive and which represent 40% of the european economy. the figures i have are that over a thousand implementing laws have already been passed. as i speak, 23 of the 27 member states have completed the necessary legislation. four countries are still in the process of finalising their implementation: germany, austria, belgium and greece. the one-stop shops - which many of you, including myself, are using to bring european laws closer to citizens and to provide them with interactive tools - are operational in 24 member states. there is a certain lag in slovakia, slovenia and romania. mr van de camp, i shall soon have completed my visit to each of the capitals, as i promised to do before parliament. i have organised in each of them - i will soon be going to malta and latvia to complete this series of visits - a workshop with all the national officials responsible for implementing this directive, and others, such as the one on vocational qualifications or the one on public procurement. i am trying to ensure that these laws are fully exploited in each country because there is nothing worse than making laws here in brussels that are not followed up in the member states, to have a legislative wheel that turns in brussels and strasbourg, and another that turns in parallel at national level. we have to hang them. that's what i've done through these workshops, and i want you to believe that it's extremely useful. the services directive clearly represents a growth reserve which we can estimate at an additional 1.5% of growth, or between 60 and 140 billion euros. my priority, before you and with you, is to implement this directive properly, the potential of which is not yet sufficiently exploited, as you have said.
the commission has already taken a number of measures. mr van de camp, president-in-office of the council. - (nl) mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we should not just talk about solving a financial and economic crisis, preferably as soon as possible and in decision-making tomorrow evening or tomorrow at the end of the afternoon, where indeed the thread is being pulled. but we must also think - and not just think, but act - about what kind of economy we have in mind for europe. because the outside world is not quiet. the word 'digital single market' always comes to mind. we have a unique opportunity, just like europe, to take advantage of this. in the current economic situation, we are looking for sources of growth and we are looking for ways to create jobs. there are a number of sectors where this is at stake, and that is in the world of information technology. 50% of european productivity and growth is in that area. if we use the right tools and if we let our european companies use them, we will get much higher productivity out of it. that is what it means in the field of competition, that we are indeed providing the means for that. in this connection i would like to mention a few matters which are of the utmost importance. that's broadband, among other things. broadband can increase gdp growth there is no doubt about that as well as opening up the wealth of public data available in europe. to put it in a diplomatic way, we are not yet making 100% use of the huge potential of the digital market for kick-starting europe's economies. so let us go for open data, let us go for utilisation of all the instruments available to that end! europe's digital strategy covers technologies in all policy areas, and it was presented in may 2010 as the first flagship initiative of europe 2020. it ticks all the right boxes, but in light of current economic developments we need to focus on accelerating those measures that will bring the greatest benefit in the shortest term. that's what the road map is, and will be, all about. what are the issues that need to be addressed as priorities? one point that has been made concerns the need to talk not about what is missing but about what we have to do, so what are the top priorities? one of them, on my list anyway, is the digital single market. i no longer refer simply to the single market: it is the 'digital single market'. let us change our vocabulary to keep pace with the realities. we need very high-speed broadband connections, and we need them throughout europe, so we must be aware that we have to invest and that, with that investment, we should be creating opportunities, putting europe in a competitive position, promoting ongoing growth and creating jobs.
member of the commission. − i will be very brief. economic growth comes from the new innovative technologies that we have to roll out in the market, but there can be no economic growth if there is no consumer confidence in the market. whatever products we roll out in the market have to be accepted by the consumer, who has to feel comfortable in the market to participate. that is why the total involvement of the consumer in the market is an important element for economic growth.
i have to say, madam president, the commission very often mentions the single market act as a growth booster, something which can help to bring europe out of the crisis. we in the green group share this approach, especially if it is combined with the right green adjustments. the problem is that we are behind with the single market act, and that is why my question to the commission is: you promised to present all 12 proposals by the end of 2011. is this timetable still in place or will some of the proposals not be presented until the new year? my second question concerns posted workers. there is a proposal to guarantee their social rights. can the commission elaborate on the main features of this proposal and the timing of the proposal?
member of the commission. − i confirm that the commission will come forward with its proposals on alternative dispute resolution (adr) and online dispute resolution (odr) before the end of this year.
i have to say, madam president, i have two brief questions, one of which is for mr barnier. i am pleased to hear and to have confirmation that there will be legislative proposals in each of the 12 areas before the new year. that is good, because you have had your doubts. i have a simple follow-up question to this. can you give a more precise date for when we can expect a proposal on the copyright and the collective bargaining issues? there is considerable pressure at the moment to get an initiative on the table. i just want to confirm that it's coming before the new year. i have a question for mrs kroes on roaming: it has recently been shown that the costs to industry of roaming are very, very small indeed. we are talking about one euro per gigabit! in this connection i would like to know whether the commissioner and her cabinet might reconsider the price ceiling which has been set - if indeed it could be lowered even further. we would certainly welcome that.
member of the commission. - mr løkkegaard, copyright is also a very sensitive subject and we are going to propose, as i have promised, a european legal framework for the collective management of copyright and related rights. i think that this proposal will come in the first half of 2012, that is to say in a few months. we're aiming to ensure better governance and more transparency in the work of collecting societies, as well as to offer what i'll call a facilitative framework for managing rights for online music. i understand your concern about the time it will take us to prepare this extremely serious and awaited text, which must be understood by all collective management societies throughout europe. i wanted to make a proposal that was ambitious and responsible. we want a directive with two parts, mr løkkegaard. a horizontal component, with transparency and governance rules, applicable to all collecting societies in europe, and a second component with specific tasks for societies that manage copyright for online music. in this way, i believe, we will cover a very wide range of subjects, and we will also take up many of the aspects you have suggested about collective management. that is why it took us so long - and will continue to take us for the next few weeks - to arrive at a coherent and effective text.
vice-president of the commission. − i am grateful to mr løkkegaard for this question, for roaming is one of the main problems to be solved. we are aware of the lack of competition in the roaming market, so our new proposal is focused on a structural remedy: facilitating entry of new players and increasing consumer choice. it is about competition, as well as giving more choice to the consumer. there needs to be real competition. we are running out of time. before june next year we have to fill in our new system, so i am grateful for all the remarks that have been made. mr grech made a remark about that, as did mr van de camp, that parliament, the council and the commission have to cooperate in a speeding-up attempt. i am grateful to come to parliament – i will be seeing some of you this afternoon – to speed up our proposal. we are aware that it needs both the cap and more competition in this market.
i have to say, madam president, just very briefly! i asked if the ceiling that had been set would be reconsidered. the commissioner can tell us whether there are any considerations in this respect?
member of the commission. - mr chountis, your country is facing very serious difficulties which, i repeat, we share. so we have to be very serious and very precise, as you are and as i am, in the questions we ask and the answers we give. i am very concerned, it is my role, to check the legality of all the procedures, whether it is the privatisation process, which is very active in greece for reasons that everyone knows, or whether it is the award of public contracts, particularly on the 150 projects that we want to relaunch. i shall look at this matter again very closely, with great objectivity and rigour. we also have a task force, mr chountis, which includes very competent officials from my general management, including our former general manager, mr holmquist, and my former deputy general manager, mr david wright. everyone understands that we are in a serious, serious and also exceptional situation. greece, and we too, must get out of this crisis. i cannot pretend that in the case of this exceptional situation we are not going to implement a number of exceptional procedures. i shall, however, study very closely the new arguments you have put forward and i shall come back to you, if you will allow me, in writing.
member of the commission. - mrs le grip, i thank you for this question, which gives me the opportunity to confirm that the commission will honour its commitments and that we will present on 13 december, to be precise, this legislative proposal for the revision of the 2005 directive on professional qualifications. it is on the basis of this very important tool, which is also the subject of a very intelligent work between my own directorate-general and many of you in your committee, that we are going to deal with the question of openness for a number of regulated professions. the problem is not the number of regulated professions. we want to do a country-by-country analysis, particularly in the context of our europe 2020 strategy and the memoranda of understanding between member states. i see that in several countries there is an effort to do this. in portugal, for example, where, as a minister explained the other day at the competitiveness council, a national effort has opened up and removed a number of barriers for some fifteen professions. i would like to refer to the idea of the professional card you have just mentioned, which is also an idea of parliament, as a means of simplifying the recognition procedures. it must be based on new technologies and we will, as you suggested, mrs le grip, use the internal market information system (imi). it's working fine. i would also like to take this opportunity to mention, to complete the list of instruments i mentioned in reply to malcolm harbour to bring the internal market closer together, namely the solvit one-stop shop and 'europe is yours', the imi system, which mainly concerns public authorities. we now have six to seven thousand communities that are directly connected to each other through this system and can ask each other questions and get answers, each in its own language. we will use this imi system to develop the professional card system. this will improve costs. before any proposal, of course, we will do an impact study on the implementation of this idea. this card must be voluntary for professionals. however, in order to preserve its useful effect, it should be binding on the member states once we have reached a bottom-up solution with the professions concerned.
i have to say, madam president, thank you for an exciting debate. i think we all want a strong and well-functioning internal market here, and that is why we are also looking forward to all the 12 legislative measures from the commission on the internal market act. but i would like to return to a question which has been raised by several members of this house, and that is: what are we actually doing to ensure that the legislation we make in the eu is also properly implemented and controlled in the member states? when it comes to market surveillance of safe products, for example, we have fine legislation, but we know that the member states do not have sufficient resources to ensure that it is implemented. this applies to food, animal welfare, etc. what will you do in the commission to ensure that - when we get good legislation - it is also implemented adequately and that the member states devote resources to it?
in writing. - i look forward to this report as an input to the commission's work on modernising the procurement directives. the procurement directives need to be modernised to focus on the core task of ensuring transparency, non-discrimination and competition in the market. however, it is important for me to stress that more flexible and more flexible procurement rules should not be at the expense of equal treatment of tenderers. european procurement legislation has made procurement processes more transparent, reduced corruption and nepotism and lowered prices, so there is much to be thankful for. so far so good, you know? on the other hand, the procurement rules have also led to a significant increase in transaction costs, partly because of the complexity of the rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament (dan jørgensen, christel schaldemose, britta thomsen and ole christensen) voted against a separate vote on paragraph 31. we have voted against because we do not think that this item is necessary. first, existing eu legislation must always be taken into account when member states are drawing up new legislative proposals. secondly, we think that the wording emphasizes the right of free movement over social rights. we believe that these rights should be given equal weight.
in writing. − i support the use of this mutual evaluation process to the extent that it is used in areas where it provides value. we must remove the barriers to services in national legislation which cannot be justified by the provisions of the directive. this will help the single market to work better for the benefit of businesses and citizens in the eu. it is a method which we will also be able to apply in the future to similar directives so that they are implemented in a more uniform way in the 27 eu countries. but it's not a tool to be used every time. it is a cumbersome process, so it is only in those framework directives where there is a lot of room for manoeuvre in how individual member states can implement the directive that it makes sense to use the mutual evaluation process. otherwise, it simply creates too much administrative burden for the authorities involved.
madam president, i thank the representative of the council for his long report on the state of play of the matter between the european parliament and the council. on this subject, which involves all of us in more than one way, i would like us to go back to the heart of the problem. the subject of our concern is the health of pregnant women, women who have recently given birth and women who are breastfeeding. i think that it is all the lapses we have allowed ourselves and each other at one time, on paternity leave, on the confusion with parental leave, that now come to sow doubt and that put us in a deadlock. i would like to say to mrs estrela that her report has led us down the path of the dream through demagogy and lack of responsibility. we are starting from a point which is totally wrong, namely that there is a relationship between the birth rate and the length of maternity leave. all the figures in europe show otherwise. the second point i would like to stress is that the commission's proposal to set the leave at 18 weeks was a very useful negotiating platform to reach consensus with the council and parliament. the articles in question, which have led to the present impasse, were voted by very small majorities and not by very large majorities. i think we absolutely have to break the deadlock if we are to be responsible. we cannot remain stuck in the situation we are in today. i think we should propose to start from the commission's proposal so that we can all come to an agreement between the council and parliament to unravel the situation in which we are locked.
i have to say, madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to begin by thanking my colleague, mrs estrela, for the questions she has put to the council. i cannot stress enough how important it is that we continue to press for the resumption of negotiations on this directive. i think it has been made clear today that we in parliament are willing to negotiate in an attempt to reach agreement with the council. but it requires that the council state its position clearly and unambiguously so that we can have a very clear starting point for the negotiations. we owe it to the citizens of europe to have a fair and sensible system of parenting which can help to redress the economic imbalance between men and women and at the same time motivate european families to have more children. mr president, we are missing children in europe! all women in the eu must have the right to have children without losing their earnings and pensions. equality is a cornerstone of the european union's foundation and one sex, women, should not be put at a disadvantage or punished for doing the hard work of bearing children. member states have used the economic crisis as an excuse for not investing in the health and safety of women and children. it's very disturbing! if we can afford to give billions of dollars in aid to the banks, we can of course also afford to provide all women with proper maternity facilities. and the single market must not be about cheap goods. it is also important that the internal market ensures high social standards for workers. we must not have unequal conditions of competition throughout the union with social dumping, where it may be worthwhile for companies to worsen the conditions of women. the negotiations on this maternity directive are therefore a cornerstone in the attempt to raise the standard of the european labour market as well as the social conditions of families.
the committee on culture and education has tabled an opinion. - mr president, as budget coordinator for the committee on culture, i am naturally pleased to see that our priorities seem to be being met in virtually all areas - even in one case with more money than we had anticipated. this fact illustrates the commission's view of the need to invest, even in the midst of austerity, in areas which can actually generate growth and meet the 2020 strategy. i am thinking here of course in particular of the money that is currently allocated to the lifelong learning programme, which is central to the efforts to achieve the growth objectives - first and foremost, of course, through the mobility programmes, of which erasmus is one of the most successful. sport has also received a small start-up grant. not quite as much as we'd hoped, but still, it's a start. we hope, of course, that the sports programme can be allowed to develop once it becomes a programme. finally, i would hope that the commission is prepared to meet the conditions set by the committee on culture with regard to the reserve in the field of communications.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs, mrs balzani and mr fernandes, for the very good cooperation they have shown on this budget. in my group we would have accepted lower payment appropriations, but there was no majority in favour. but we can back up the result we've gotten. there is more money for research and training, which is the necessary foreign policy allocation, and therefore we can support the proposal. there are some of the savings which the council has proposed which i think are rather strange. mr ludvigsson spoke of savings for the new financial supervisory authorities. but excuse me! we have a financial crisis out there to solve, and it is very strange that you start by saving the budget of these new institutions. what's the rationale behind that? i would say to the council that i hope that this time we can have a debate and a dialogue that is about more than just the amount of payments, that is about more than a single percentage, and that we can get down to the substance and have a real discussion about what the needs are on the eu budget. it also requires the council to be willing to go into detail and look at what the real needs are. i hope we can have a good dialogue. i hope for the polish presidency. i think they've shown good will so far. it is a difficult task for the polish presidency, but i hope we can find a solution so that we can have a budget for the future.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. − mr president, i am sorry that i have to address you again, and this time in english, since i now realise what i said to you a few minutes ago about the position of the committee on culture and education on this matter has been translated completely wrongly. some of you must have raised an eyebrow when you heard me complaining about the figures. what i said in danish was that i am very satisfied by what we have achieved. i must admit that it is extremely worrying to experience things like this, mistranslations of what you said in your own language. so that is just for the record.
in writing. we, the four danish social democrats in the european parliament, have voted in favour of the sub-proposal (amendment 26) from our political group which calls on the bureau of the european parliament to examine the possibilities of making general savings - including on parliament's expenditure on travel activities. the s&d group has put forward a number of proposals for possible savings, including this one. we believe that there is a need for clear common rules which should apply to all members of parliament as well as to staff. until new rules are adopted, we will be sending four meps under the current rules.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, the image of the eu as a vast and inaccessible bureaucracy is difficult to shake off. when we talk about having "the year of the citizen" in 2013, there is a fair chance that we will be laughed at! we have made great progress in enabling citizens to participate, first and foremost with our ombudsman, whose annual report we thank and we are dealing today with mrs iotovas excellent report. i thank her and her colleagues for making this report a source of great pride for us. the idea behind the legislative changes to the administration is clear: the eu administration must be for the benefit of the citizens. they are the ones who have to trust the system and see it working. we have incorporated the requirements of good administration into the charter, where it is binding on the eu institutions, and we have improved the legal basis for access to documents so that the already excellent regulation 1047 can be even better. the problem is that important parts of the commission and the council do not want to play along. for them, it is still the task of the administration to protect power from the citizens. we have seen in 2008 an unfortunate resistance to the improvements of 1041, and it will probably be a war to get the commission to propose the legislation we need on good administration. if it is to be safe, we must have legislation on this. this is also stated in paragraph 29 of the report. it is not reassuring that most of the complaints to the ombudsman concern the commission. and it is not reassuring - i have to say this to the commissioner - that the numbers are increasing. the commission is the centre of the european union. it is the commission which is responsible for ensuring that the eu develops in accordance with european values, and it is the commission which has the exclusive right to propose legislation. in this context, it is alarming that senior officials actually believe that the commission still has to protect itself from the public. i have heard a senior official from the environment dg who would not even give access to the infringement procedures once the case was closed because he thought it could damage confidence in the system. the citizens should trust us, not the other way around! that's the way the system is supposed to work. this is not a question of culture. there is no nordic culture of openness and a southern culture of corruption. can i be here? we need a culture of openness everywhere! our ombudsman is greek, and we cannot say that the southerners do not support openness. finally, let me ask the ombudsman to pay attention to one point in the budget that we are discussing. what is the cost of the ombudsman living in strasbourg - far away from his work - instead of living where he works? i would ask the ombudsman to provide us with clear figures so that we can see what we can save if we move the ombudsman closer to his work.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. madam president, thank you to the rapporteur for an excellent report. we can fully support it from the green group and also the whole idea behind this directive, which is to make it possible to make it easier for workers and the selfemployed to have their qualifications recognised. i would like to mention five main points from the greens which we think are particularly important in this report: firstly, that more flexible frameworks and faster procedures must not mean a deterioration in professionalism; secondly, that the health and safety of patients and consumers must come before everything else; thirdly, that further automation and harmonisation must take place on the basis of the professions and their wishes and build on their voluntary cooperation; fourthly, we are very positive about a professional passport, that is to say a form of e-card system which can be continuously updated and which is based on the system already in operation, namely imi; fifthly, we believe that it is very important to focus on continuing professional development and upskilling. this is a point to which the green group has attached great importance, so thanks to the rapporteur, and we look forward to working on the legislation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the israeli government and parliament, the knesset, are now in the process of adopting some of the laws that we have repeatedly criticised, not only here in parliament but also in the commission and in the council - namely laws that destroy democracy and freedom of expression. we are going to impose a very strict ceiling on public aid, i.e. government aid, to b'tselem and other human rights organizations. they may receive up to 20 000 ils, or a few thousand euros a year. that's the same as stopping them! i am very grateful to the commission for its protest. our ambassador in tel aviv clearly said no to this on thursday, but nothing is happening. israel just keeps going because they're not facing any real opposition! i would therefore urge the council and the commission to consider whether we should not now start looking at the privileged partnerships between israel and the eu. it cannot be right that we should accept that freedom of expression in israel should be undermined in this way, and especially not with those who have been our best partners for a long time. we have to do more than just get angry and say "shame on you" and "you can't do that". it is a disaster, not only for freedom of expression and democracy, but also for the future of israel.
i have to say, madam president, i voted for the regulation today. credit default swaps can provide more liquidity in our economy and in some cases can also help protect and insure us against losses. the problem is that - as the financial crisis has also clearly revealed - it also contains certain problematic elements which have posed a significant systemic risk to our economy, because speculation has triggered a negative spiral. what has been crucial today is that we have taken a decision which can remedy the problem. we make credit default swaps accountable by ensuring that there is an ownership relationship, so that the buyer and seller have a certain relationship to the instrument they're trading. i think that is very positive and that is why i voted in favour of the proposal.
i have to say, madam president, i find it absolutely incredible that a report like this on migrant workers can be adopted without mentioning the enormous problems created by migrant workers in a number of member states. the problems of non-compliance with pay standards in many countries are not mentioned. the report does not say a word about the failure to respect the agreements. not a word about non-compliance with the rules on driving and resting times, etc., etc. what is the reality of those of you who voted for this report? for my part, not a day goes by without me receiving inquiries from citizens, from businesses, from ngos, from several countries, especially in the western part of the union, on precisely these problems. do you really think that the problems will go away by themselves if you simply fail to describe them in a report like this?
i have to say, madam president, it is exciting to read this report. the impression is almost that the eu is the promised land, with streets flowing with milk and honey. there is no limit to the good that is offered to citizens here: free movement, social market economy, progress, high competitiveness, full employment, good environmental quality, etc., etc. unfortunately - and this is a bit strange - there is not a single word on how to achieve all these benefits for the citizens. there is no single place that describes how to achieve all these objectives. and if you look around the eu, you have to say: it may not be going very well! rarely has the eu's competitiveness been worse than it is today. rarely has employment been lower than it is today. and rarely has free movement worked worse than it does today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. maybe we should make the two ends meet in the future!
i have to say, madam president, i voted for the report today, but i did not vote on paragraph 20 or what is in paragraph 20. i understand the intention of what is said, but i think it is a little badly worded. i think it is important that there should be a proven intention to break the rules. if we have different rules in 27 member states, it is no use putting a business out of business if they make a mistake. we must give them the opportunity to rectify their situation before we close down their business in other member states too. there is one point i would like to make. basically, online gambling has meant that gambling is more accessible, and that has meant more gambling addicts. i would urge the commission to ensure that gambling operators also pay for treatment for gambling addiction. today, treatment of gambling addiction is often left to church organizations and others. well, the gambling companies have to pay for the damage they cause. it may be a very small part of their turnover - we are talking about a million - but i do not think it should be the sole responsibility of the member states to clean up after online gambling.
i have to say, madam president, i think it is very important that we now have clear rules in this area. we have needed simpler rules, both for national and local authorities, when we talk about state aid. one thing that has created legal uncertainty is the very vague definition of services of economic interest and services of non-economic interest. i therefore think it is a good thing that we now have a clearer definition of this area. it is also positive that we are getting an increase in the thresholds which exempt from the notification requirement to a level and in those areas where it does not affect trade. it is a matter of principle that the commission should be consulted on the matter.
i have to say, madam president, i voted for this report, but i am speaking anyway because i think the whole thing should be seen in a larger perspective. once again we see that we politicians, who are elected by the people, are being dragged around by the luxembourg court of justice. we see that the court of justice, most recently in the altmark judgment, has now again given a ruling which means that we should change the rules in response to what the court of justice in luxembourg has said. i think that in a democracy it should be the politicians and not the civil servants who sit at the head of the table. i think we should have a principled discussion on how to restructure the system so that it is more likely that we, the elected representatives, are the ones who make the rules, rather than just following the rules which the judges in luxembourg, who are probably well-meaning but not elected, have made. i therefore believe that this case raises a question of principle as to how the rules - particularly in the field of health - are being established.
i have to say, madam president, i must admit that i find it shocking to read this report. only the passage "poverty is an unacceptable expression of an unequal distribution of wealth". what kind of report is this? a communist pamphlet? poverty is not caused by an unequal distribution of wealth, but by an unequal access to opportunities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when i read this report, i cannot help thinking of the american declaration of independence, where jefferson describes 'unalienable rights' as 'life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness'. it is in this way that politicians set man free, namely by saying that it is man's own responsibility to create the happiness to create his pursuit of happiness not by saying that it is the responsibility of politicians to distribute the amount of resources equally that may be available. it is a shameful report. this could have been written in the soviet era.
i have to say, madam president, there was no vote by show of hands on the report on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. first of all, i would like to say that when i vote against it is because the principle of subsidiarity has not been respected. i am surprised that you even want the eu to introduce minimum wages. paragraph 95 states that this must be done in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. that sentence alone effectively supersedes paragraph 95. we cannot introduce a minimum wage through the eu without violating the principle of subsidiarity. in denmark we have a model where the social partners determine wages through collective bargaining. this is the nordic model, where the social partners negotiate the pay themselves. the workers are very much in agreement with this; the workers are in agreement with this too. and that's why you're breaking that principle. another key article in the report deals with the food aid programme. the fact that in the past the eu could help the poor to be fed through intervention stocks was good; the fact that the butter mountains and the milk lakes were at least to some extent used for something sensible was good. but the system should be abolished; the system is outdated. we no longer have these surplus stocks.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. if the professional qualifications acquired by eu citizens through education or work in one member state are not recognised in the other eu countries, we cannot, in my view, have a well-functioning internal market. and with demographic trends, with the average age of the population in western europe, the need for the single market to function is greater than ever. i fully agree with the report's message that the most effective way of creating a framework for free movement is to limit the number of regulated professions. i also agree that the way to more uniform rules is through the internal market information system (imi).
in writing. - i support the recommendations in the report on online gambling because it will lead to a more open gambling market. at the same time, it is important to emphasise that it is not the easy access to online gambling that creates gambling addiction. today, only 85% of the 15,000 online gambling operators in the eu have a licence, so there is a large grey market. we must put an end to this at the same time as the markets are opened. a common licensing scheme, whereby companies licensed in one country can offer their services in several eu countries, will provide an incentive for gambling operators to obtain a licence. i also support the report's aim of combating money laundering and other crimes linked to online gambling. in particular, there is a risk that illegal gambling leads to 'match fixing', which would be deeply undermining for the sport as a whole.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have voted in favour of frédéric daerden's report on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. the report contains many fine reflections on how we can do better in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. but the report also contains several passages which we do not support. for example, we want to see the phasing out and abolition of the eu's food programme, we do not want the eu to set a poverty line or a minimum income for denmark, and we believe that taxation should remain a national issue.
in writing. − in paragraph 18 of this report, the committee calls for the scheme of food distribution to the most deprived to continue for the period 2014-2020. i am against the continuation of the food distribution system in the eu. i believe that the eu should work towards social and employment policies that enable people to live a life of dignity without having to rely on the free distribution of food. however, i voted for this report because i think there are many positive elements in it and because i think it is essential that the member states, in the midst of an economic crisis, intensify their efforts to combat poverty in the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the international energy agency just recently published a report saying that the developed countries of this world, the industrialised countries, have about five years to change fundamentally the way they produce energy and the way they consume energy in order for us to stay below a two-degree increase in temperature. now, if we do not stay below two degrees, we know what will happen. this is when the self-enhancing effect sets in, when it gets out of control and catastrophe happens. then, if we look at what has actually now been pledged by the same countries, the countries that need to change fundamentally within five years, it is unfortunately very unsatisfactory. we see a situation now where the pledges are about half of what we need in order to reach our target. we see a situation in which the pledges of the major countries, the developed countries, are not even close to where we need them to be. this is why durban is so important, why we are in so much of a hurry to create real results. we all know that we will not get a full legally binding agreement with regard to mitigation in durban that will solve these problems, but we know also that we have possibilities to pursue targets that are ambitious nonetheless – targets that will get us closer to our final goal. this is why i think it is extremely important when the commissioner states that the eu should push for legally binding agreements under certain terms. we think that the kyoto protocol is a good idea and that the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol could be a way forward but only if, first of all, it has environmental integrity and, second, it is combined with a roadmap for emerging economies especially for when they will start to reduce their emissions. this is not only about mitigation. we also need to discuss adaptation, because even if we do succeed in having the mitigation targets we want, we know that the world will experience climate change and we know that the poorest countries of this world, in particular, will have difficulties adapting to this. this is why we have a moral obligation to help them financially; we have a moral obligation in the industrial countries to find money so that they can have capacity building and so that they can have the necessary means to adapt to these situations.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the minister and the commissioner for coming here tonight. tomorrow the european parliament will vote on an ambitious resolution on the durban climate conference. the eu is currently responsible for about 11% of global emissions. who is responsible for the remaining 89%? when will we get binding commitments from other parts of the world to make the same reductions as the eu to achieve a 2°c reduction? that said, i regret to say that i cannot support the resolution as a whole for three reasons. the resolution calls for a complete phase-out of fossil fuels by 2050. i consider that to be unrealistic on a world scale. the resolution proposes moving from unanimity to qualified majority voting as a future model for unfccc decisions. it would mean a significant surrender of sovereignty. i do not see that as a realistic solution either. thirdly, it proposes the introduction of an international tax on financial transactions. this is where a controversial fiscal policy is being brought into the climate debate. i think that is unfortunate for the positive outcome of the conference. i will not stand in the way of the european union speaking with one voice in the negotiations in durban. that is why i shall abstain tomorrow.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, thank you to the court of auditors for a good report. unfortunately, the eu's 2010 accounts cannot be viewed in the same positive light. as we have already heard, the payments on which the accounts are based are seriously flawed. but that's not enough! it's also going in the wrong direction. year after year, we in parliament have criticised the excessive error rate in the management of the eu's taxpayers' money. but every year the commission has reassured us that things were going in the right direction. last year the commission was particularly proud, i remember. we were told that the overall decline in stocks was due to the commission's very efforts. i remember commenting on this in my speech on 11 november in this house. i said, and i quote: 'i would like to give the commission the honour, but then it is also clear who is responsible if the error rate rises next year.' so here we are a year later, and the failure rate has gone up! it's no longer enough to ask who's responsible. now we must also ask who is responsible! i look forward to the commission's reply.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on european cinema in the digital age today because i agree in principle that we must equip cinemas for the digitisation of the film medium. i would like to stress, however, that i believe that it is up to the market to solve this problem. it is therefore regrettable that the structural funds are mentioned as an opportunity to support cinemas. i think that is not a viable path and could have been avoided if we had worked on making compromises. overall, however, the report contains many good proposals which point to solutions to strengthen cinemas in the digital age.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the report on european cinema in the digital age because it contains several good initiatives and because we recognise cinema as an important source of european culture. we support the process of digitising european films and we believe that the public sector must help finance parts of this process of conversion. but we are against the calls - which are made in certain parts of the report - for a substantial increase in eu funding for digitalisation, as we are in the midst of a time of crisis. we must be persistent and prioritize sharply how we spend the taxpayers' money.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i thank the rapporteur, mrs isabella lövin, for her work on this report and for her cooperation. it is time to fight illegal fishing worldwide. it should not be possible to land illegally caught fish in any port in the world. we must of course also look at ourselves in europe, so that we have order in our own house. if there is no port where you can land your fish and where you can sell your fish, you also remove the incentive to fish illegally. i believe that illegal fishing is a dirty business and that serious infringements should be punished on the same level as economic crime. illegal fishing is bad for everyone and everything. this is bad for fish stocks and makes it difficult to assess their sustainability. it's bad for the ecosystems of the world's oceans, because you don't know how many fish are being caught. finally, it is also bad for fishermen who behave properly and stay within the law. the report now provides a good basis for tightening up the rules, which have been lacking in the fight against illegal fishing. and illegal fishing must be stopped. this is one of the biggest threats to sustainable fishing in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. economic growth and the creation of new businesses and jobs are unthinkable without access to a stable and fast internet connection. without the network, it is difficult to imagine how to create efficiency in public administration, citizen services and retail trade. i voted in favour today and i am glad that parliament has adopted a resolution on an open internet and net neutrality. the central position of the internet in all aspects of society has made it an important political issue. it is also a political task to ensure equal access to the internet for all citizens. we reject the idea of creating an a-team and a b-team for the citizens. we also reject the idea that it is up to policy-makers to decide how content should be prioritised. so far, so good! i'm going to the hospital. but we also have to recognise that we are facing some huge challenges in creating the adequate infrastructure, not least when it comes to mobile platforms. we're having a hard time building capacity fast enough to keep up with the explosive growth that's coming to the citizens. that is why we must give priority to this in the future.
in writing. − i fully support the functioning of the icc in the fight against impunity and the prosecution of the worst crimes against humanity. i also agree with the majority of conclusions laid down in the kreissl-dörfler report. therefore i voted in favour. however, i strongly disagree with the wording of paragraph 12. the competence for criminal law lies with the member states, and not the eu, and i strongly oppose any transfer of competences in criminal law matters.
in writing. - we, the four danish social democrats in the european parliament, have voted against the proposal to create a european coastguard to strengthen the common surveillance and inspection capacity (second part of article 12) and the proposal to harmonise coastguard services at european level (second part of article 13). this was done on the basis of our view that the powers relating to the coastguard services in the eu should remain with the member states.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to express my great satisfaction with the result we have achieved, where parliament was able to raise the money needed for palestine, was able to get the necessary research appropriations and was also able to secure funding for iter for next year - the iter fusion energy project - without having to make any cuts in the research framework programme, which is too large. if i have any concern about the present result, it is because of amending budget no 6. i think it is a rather intolerable situation we are in, where the council/member states on the one hand promise that if there is a need for extra money, they will come with it. they will make sure that the eu can pay its bills. on the other hand, when the commission comes to us and needs more money to pay the bills, several countries say they do not believe the commission's figures, that they do not believe the commission's figures are correct, and they do so without describing which figures are correct. in my view, this is an absolutely intolerable situation. of course you have to pay your bills. mr lewandowski said that 50 to 60% of the eu budget is an investment budget and what happens is that at the beginning of the period there are not so many bills to pay, but at the end of the period there are big bills to pay and we are at the end of the seven-year programming period. the first e-mail i opened after coming home from the budget negotiations was from a danish research company. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. i think we are rolling a snowball in front of us and i would simply ask the council to make sure that it lives up to its responsibilities and makes sure that the eu can pay its bills. that's all we know!
in writing. − the agreement on the eu budget reached between a majority of the european parliament and the european council means that the budget will increase by 1.86% in 2012 (in fact a decrease in the eu budget compared to 2011). the sf meps believe that the eu should take more initiatives for growth and job creation at european level than it does today. this requires both a larger eu budget than the current one and a radical reallocation of the eu budget, shifting the focus from massive agricultural subsidies and investment in unsustainable energy solutions to green growth and job creation. however, we are in a situation where many of the eu member states are having to make deep cuts in their national budgets and in this light the sf recognises that in the current situation it is not reasonable to ask countries to increase their payments to the eu. on the other hand, we cannot support a budget in which there is no serious willingness to change priorities and where there is even agreement on an increase in support for nuclear power. we have therefore decided to abstain from voting on the 2012 budget.
in writing. - paragraphs 41 and 42 of the report on the annual report of the european central bank state that a common european finance minister for the euro area is needed and that this should come from the commission if necessary; it also calls for the creation of a common european finance ministry. it is important for the sf members of the european parliament to stress that if such a ministry of finance is to be established, it must be under strict democratic control. as it is stated in the two paragraphs of the report in question, we cannot therefore support the idea, because it is too vague and vague. the report contains many good elements, however, and we have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the danish social democrats in the european parliament voted in favour of the report on tackling the problem of early school leavers (a7-0363/2011), as we believe that the report addresses a serious problem in the education sector and proposes a number of sensible solutions. although there are parts of the proposal which we cannot support (e.g. paragraphs 1, 31, 32 and 48), and although education policy is primarily a matter for the member states, we believe that the report as a whole sends the right signal to combat the number of pupils leaving school prematurely.
in writing. - paragraph 63 of the beres report on the european semester calls for 'the development of a model for a european treasury to strengthen the implementation capacity of the european semester and the economic pillar of economic and monetary union'. the report does not, however, explain in detail what the idea of such a european treasury covers. the members of the european parliament of the socialist group therefore have reservations about this wording, but have voted in favour of the report because it contains many good elements.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide system of customs and trade barriers. as a liberal, i believe that free trade must be promoted and protectionism must be fought. we must first adopt free trade agreements with china and other important trading partners which can become enforceable wto agreements in time. unfortunately, in certain areas it is going the wrong way, as the report points out. finally, i would like to say that i am not a fan of the repeated references to reciprocity, which in my ears is another word for protectionism. but overall the report is moving in the right direction. i am working in the liberal group to ensure that as many references to reciprocity and protectionism as possible are removed or moderated as much as possible in the european parliament's reports, which has also been achieved this time. that's why the result is edible.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i voted against the agreement today because it has proved to be completely ineffective in relation to the development objectives. and here i find a very strong argument: the validity of the agreement in the light of international law is questionable. there's a little uncertainty we need to clear up. western sahara has the status of an autonomous territory and is therefore not part of morocco. the people of western sahara must not be prevented from enjoying their own resources because of an agreement between morocco and the eu.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) and the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc). this is because the danish social democrats have a general policy of not voting for the political decisions of other political groups. the decision also focuses too little on the economic and environmental shortcomings of the provisional protocol to the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement. a new and improved protocol must contain clear improvements in economic and environmental aspects. we therefore believe that a decision calling on the european commission to work towards a better protocol should draw the commission's attention to the environmental and economic shortcomings of the previous protocol.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. the danish social democrats cannot, however, support the parts of the report which call for increased spending on defence budgets.
in writing. − i would like to underline that, despite voting in favour of this report, i by no means accept the reference to the definition of ‘terrorism’ as it is formulated in the framework decision 2002/475/jha on combating terrorism. i wish to state clearly that i reject such a broad definition, which could virtually include every act that has some element of organisation or planning and which legitimately raises the question whether this instrument has a built-in ‘function creep’ in order not only to combat terrorism but to extend the definition in such a manner as to cover most public order situations and more common criminal acts as they apply under national law. like other legislation of this nature (in the us for instance), we must be very careful to not leave any room for draconian measures to enter by the back door to control political dissent, demonstrations and protests, and must be very vigilant that it will not be used to curb freedom of expression.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank michael cashman for a very good report. and just try to notice that after all it is we in this parliament - i would say to mr šefčovič - it is we in this parliament who represent the citizens. and we are the ones who know that if citizens do not have more confidence in our system, we will lose the battle for the eu and the eu's credibility and influence. we are actually at a very critical point at the moment and it is discouraging for the commission and for some of the members here to hear that it was as if the safety of officials and politicians was at stake. it was as if it was them we were supposed to protect, and us we were supposed to protect, and not the citizens. this is about the confidence of the people! there are exceptions. i have worked with the public for many years, including in the danish parliament. there are exceptions, of course. it's always a struggle to get these exceptions defined so they don't get too violent. it is not something that is just given in itself it is always a struggle to ensure openness and security. the security we must give the officials is that they are in a system where there is mutual trust. there may be room for error without getting killed for it. but there is no room for error in the direction of giving citizens openness. so i very much hope that there will be movement in the commission and, for that matter, in the council.
