member of the commission. − mr president, the recent popular uprising in tunisia is unprecedented in the modern history of the country. on 17 december 2010, a young university graduate set himself on fire out of sheer desperation after police seized the fruit and vegetables that he was selling for a living. less than a month later, nationwide protests have brought about the definitive departure of president ben ali. the european union has condemned the violence of the repression during the last days of the regime. as i speak, the security situation remains precarious. looting and violence are still being reported. tunisia remains in a very delicate phase, although the first news about the formation of a national unity government is just coming in. despite some uncertainty, the message of the tunisian people is loud and clear: tunisia wants to be a stable democracy that fully respects fundamental rights and freedoms. it wants free and fair, inclusive elections. the people want to write a new page in their history and we want to support them in that endeavour. respect for the constitution and the steps being taken, as we speak, to bring together a national solidarity government are moves in the right direction. of course, this is only a start. the european union has never ceased to remind tunisia of its international obligations in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms. ever since the start of my term of office – since my hearing before this house in fact – i have repeated that enhanced status clearly means enhanced commitments in all areas of our relationship, including fundamental freedoms and human rights. i have stressed in all meetings with the tunisian authorities, on behalf of the european commission, that they had to deliver on their democratic and human rights commitments. at the very first session of negotiations on the action plan for statut avancé, i insisted personally, in an unprecedented and extremely clear way, that any use of the new article 61a of the penal code would be seen by us as incompatible with statut avancé and with our shared values. and, by the way, if there were still sceptics on both sides who thought that these values were shared only in theory, they should listen again and again to the voice of the tunisian street over the last days and weeks. what was this if not a solemn demand for democracy and for more economic justice? as catherine ashton and i stated this morning, the european union stands ready to support a truly inclusive electoral process with appropriate guarantees. we hope its modalities can be announced as soon as possible, once the government of national unity has been shaped and starts its work. we are ready to provide immediate assistance in preparing and organising the electoral process, as well as lasting support for a genuine democratic transition. we are also working on a broader package to assist – as soon as the situation stabilises – with, inter alia, economic development, close attention to the social problems faced by tunisia’s youth, and consolidating the rule of law and the judiciary. we will, of course, continue consulting closely with this house and with the member states on this process. the european neighbourhood policy is based on essential values shared by the european union and its partners: democracy, human rights and an open market economy, with a view to building together a shared area of democracy, stability and prosperity. the commission has always stressed that these values were an essential component of our neighbourhood policy, towards both our southern and our eastern neighbours. with its strong middle class, high level of education, closeness to europe and overall moderation, tunisia is well placed to take the leap towards democracy that people have now asked for with such force and courage, and i think everyone should agree that the european union also has a strong interest in a democratic, prosperous and stable tunisia. we have a long-standing and robust relationship with tunisia and close links between our peoples and our business communities. it is my ambition, and that of the vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union for foreign and security policy, that we should now strengthen our bilateral relations on the basis of new commitments by our partners on governance, respect for the rule of law and for fundamental freedoms, and economic and social reforms. we will do our utmost to help the tunisian people to turn their aspirations into reality.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the recent events in tunisia should invite us to reflect responsibly on at least two aspects. firstly, on whether policies supporting the status quo in countries with democratic freedoms really contribute to stability, in this case, in our immediate environment. and secondly, mr president, on the question of whether the disappearance of mr ben ali from the political scene is a sufficient condition for the birth of a genuine democratic transition. in my view, mr president, the answer to both questions is no. that is why, mr füle, we must reflect deeply on why the neighbourhood policy, in the spirit of the barcelona process, has not produced the effects of democratization that were foreseen and how we could or should correct the situation. secondly, experience has shown us - and there are many cases - that when there is a power vacuum, the most radical, the most extremist parties take over the process, hijack it and want to screw it up. mr president, only in the defence of freedom is extremism not a vice; only in the defence of justice is moderation not a virtue. the european union must therefore do everything in its power to ensure that this process does not go off the rails. i welcome mr füle's statement that we will provide electoral assistance to tunisia, but i think it is more important to go one step further and accompany him with an eu election observation mission. and not only because of this ethical imperative which is inscribed in the genetic code of the european union, but also, mr president, because of our own interest: because it is no use traveling first class if there is a passenger in economy class with a bomb in his suitcase.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and particularly for his positive attitude on consent to the interim economic partnership agreement with the pacific states of papua new guinea and fiji. i hope that this house will follow his advice. consent by the european parliament – for the first time on a trade agreement under the lisbon treaty – has important political significance because this is a trade agreement with a long-term development focus and because of the momentum it will provide to ongoing negotiations on the comprehensive epa with the pacific region. back in 2007, the immediate purpose of the interim agreement was to secure continued access to the eu market for those countries in the pacific region which most depend on it, given the impending expiry of the cotonou trade regime. the commission’s commitment to concluding negotiations on a comprehensive epa with the pacific region as a whole remains unchanged and we are currently engaged in negotiations with our pacific partners. we can go forward only if we accept the special nature of the pacific region and tailor the epa accordingly. we are talking about small and remote island states which differ greatly in their economic situation, development needs and relations with the eu. some countries have ‘least developed country’ status and are therefore covered by the eu’s everything but arms trade regime; some have little, if any, trade with the union. we are therefore open to entering into the trade relationships that best suit the pacific region as a whole, and the ongoing negotiations will inform the ultimate choices. whatever approach we opt for, it is absolutely crucial to ensure that any agreement will indeed contribute to the development of the countries concerned. that is why there is also financial assistance to enhance trade capacity. that is why we will allow partner countries in the developing world to exclude more sensitive products from the trade agreements: something that we would not allow other countries to do. in this context, i have duly taken note of the concerns expressed about the derogation in the interim epa from the standard rules of origin for fisheries products. it is precisely for development reasons that we granted this derogation and we did so on the basis of our informed judgment that papua new guinea’s small market share makes it unlikely that its tuna exports could damage the interests of the eu industry. the european union and papua new guinea have applied these rules provisionally since 2008 and, whereas export figures have fluctuated, no upward trend has been detected. let me also reassure you that the commission does not intend to offer similar arrangements to any other region. the commission will, in any event, closely monitor the implementation of the derogation and will report to parliament on the basis of a study which will be prepared before the end of 2011. some of you were also present in september last year when the current elected prime minister addressed the inta committee. he expressed the readiness of his government to grant eu vessels and investors access to papua new guinea’s waters. we take this oral declaration very seriously and we will continue to engage with our partners till it comes to fruition. parliament’s consent will allow us to launch the implementation mechanisms provided for the agreement; one of these is the trade committee, which could be convened this spring and which provides a platform for raising all the issues relating to mutual obligations under the interim epa. your vote is therefore crucial to helping us move forward on this and other important issues. with regard to fiji, the country did sign the interim epa but it does not apply it provisionally. this makes papua new guinea currently the only country provisionally applying the eu-pacific interim epa. fiji continues, for the time being, to have access to the eu market under the market access regulation, since the council has not adopted trade sanctions. as you are aware, the eu decided to suspend development aid to fiji because of the political situation in the country. resumption of aid would presuppose progress in governance in fiji and, in particular, a return to democratic principles of government, but at the moment there is no tangible progress in fiji in this regard. the epa we have discussed today is only an interim arrangement to ensure that access to the eu market is not lost. the commission is fully committed to continue negotiations on a comprehensive epa with the pacific region.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. - mr president, commissioner, the exemption from the rules of origin is the result of a very serious miscalculation by the commission as regards its impact not only on the community tuna sector, which is very serious, but also on the pacific area itself - which is the one it is intended to help - when the real beneficiaries are almost exclusively the voracious fleets of china and south-east asia and their processing industry. the dg trade has established this exemption on the basis that papua new guinea does not have the fishing capacity to exploit its resources. however, according to the most recent data from the western and central pacific fisheries commission, there are 41 papua new guinea flagged purse seiners operating in the area, with a total catch in 2009 of almost half a million tonnes, of which more than 75 000 (between semi-processed and processed) ended up in the european union, placing papua new guinea among the top six exporters to the european union. it is therefore not true, as you say, that in order to develop the fisheries sector in papua new guinea it was necessary to give free access to other fleets. the european union can under no circumstances compromise its commitments to sustainable development. however, we are seeing how, under this exemption and in order to give asian investors a foot in the door, papua new guinea has amended its legislation so that it is not possible to lodge complaints for environmental damage and has put in place investment regulations that allow the hiring of local workers and cheap asian labour with the worst job guarantees imaginable. if we add to this the fact that papua new guinea is leading - in the regional fisheries organisation i mentioned earlier - a categorical rejection of any international fisheries management and control standards, the result is that while the dg for maritime affairs and fisheries puts all the meat on the grill to fight illegal fishing, others open the doors to it. i, commissioner, am coming from the western and central pacific fisheries commission and i am very much aware of the position taken by papua new guinea. i therefore stand by the fisheries committee's position of calling for the suspension of the exemption in the review of the agreement in question.
mr president, i too would like to express my concern about the impact of this agreement on the canned tuna fishery, which is very important in spain and particularly in galicia, my constituency. this negative impact is due, as has been said, to an unprecedented and ill-founded concession: the exemption from the rules of origin for processed fishery products, when requested, because of the lack of sufficient indigenous raw material. well, it's the first thing papua new guinea has done, and the exemption is already being applied. papua new guinea thus becomes a major platform for processing and exporting tuna from the major competitors of the european industry, namely the philippines, thailand, china and the united states. they're really the big beneficiaries of the deal. it is estimated that tuna production will eventually rise to 400 000 tonnes per year, destined for the european market, which currently consumes a total of some 710 000. the impact will be very serious, as tuna from papua new guinea is priced one third cheaper than tuna from europe, due to low wages and non-existent environmental standards. in my own country, galicia, this is considered to be an unbeatable competition, which will have serious consequences for employment. i hope that the impact study announced by the european commission will be as rigorous as possible and take account of the short and mediumterm consequences of this exemption from the rules of origin. i hope that you will put an end to this exemption as soon as possible. it's an exceptional and temporary measure. however, it seems that in papua new guinea they consider it permanent. otherwise, these investments would not be made. i hope, moreover, that this exemption will not be included in other agreements, and not even in the final agreement. but there is already a problem with the interim agreement and it must be remedied.
mr president, the association agreement with papua new guinea and fiji, as is being said here, includes an exemption from the rules of origin. it affects tuna in particular, as the rapporteur has said. what do we want with this deal? we want the development of the fisheries sector and the overcoming of poverty in these archipelagos, that is, development aid. but what are the negative effects of third countries benefiting from this preferential treatment? we are hearing here the allegations that are being made. we want a balanced situation. the commission has just told us that there are clear analyses. however, the view expressed here is that this is not the case. in 2008 we were told that there was no distortion of any kind and we were told about an impact report. we want a balanced situation. we want a review, a consultation and checks. we want to know whether this agreement is useful for aiding the development of this archipelago. and we also want to know whether the health measures are being complied with - something very important for the products that are being imported - , the sustainable management of fisheries, the fight against illegal fishing - a fundamental element - and a very important element that would show us how these third countries that may be based in papua new guinea work, such as compliance with international labour standards. we want to support this agreement, we want to help it to be implemented, but we also want this agreement to serve the development of papua new guinea and fiji and not to harm spanish industry.
mr president, first of all i would like to make it clear that i am in favour of closer trade links between the european union and papua new guinea which will promote the development of this region, but which will also promote sustainable development. i sincerely believe that this agreement, as we have put it today, is not a good agreement. i am absolutely against a clause in it which i consider unfair: the exemption from the rules of origin, because it not only jeopardizes the sustainable development of papua new guinea but, as we have heard here, it jeopardizes an entire european industry, the canning industry. this concession should be absolutely exceptional, and it should not have been applied to papua new guinea. we must not forget the serious precedent this measure is setting, and will set, in future negotiations within the european union. in my view, a much clearer and more forceful resolution would have been needed in this respect, which would have categorically stated that the exemption from the rules of origin would be definitively suspended at the next revision of the interim association agreement. i would therefore ask the commission to take account of the dramatic consequences that this concession will have, firstly, on the european canning industry and, secondly, on the sustainability of the environment and the natural resources of papua new guinea, and the very negative precedent it sets for future negotiations. as much as the commission has acknowledged that it will not be a precedent, the pressure will be there. i therefore ask the commission to decide to end the exemption from the rules of origin as soon as possible.
mr president, international adoption, inspired by the principles of the best interests of the child and respect for his or her fundamental rights, is an appropriate means of providing a family for those who cannot find one in their country of origin. human trafficking, sexual exploitation and slavery in the workplace are a terrible reality affecting hundreds of millions of children. let us look at some figures: there are more than 145 million abandoned children in the world; in russia alone, more than 600,000 live on the streets; since 1980, more than two million children have died in armed conflicts; more than 600 million children live in extreme poverty; more than five million die each year; more than 130 million children in developed countries grow up without access to basic education because of their poverty, and 60 percent of them are girls; seven million children are subjected to sexual slavery worldwide. we must therefore promote mechanisms to promote an international adoption instrument inspired by the protection of minors, by harmonizing the different requirements and procedures provided for in the laws of the member states, by applying article 21 of the charter of the rights of the child in particular and by taking into account article 24 of our charter of fundamental rights.
mr president, i would like to express concerns over the agreement between the eu and morocco. the future of the agriculture sectors in the euro-mediterranean countries will be seriously affected if this agreement remains as it is now. we have to open our borders and reach an agreement with the european agricultural sectors, and not one behind their backs. the commission has carried out studies that clearly show that the euro-mediterranean countries will be the most negatively affected by the eu-morocco agreement. i would not ratify this agreement without the inclusion of some clauses concerning the labour market, the social dimension and the environment in morocco. if we do nothing, it is our farming activity and food chain industry that will risk losing out, especially in the euro-mediterranean countries. these are the concerns i wanted to share with you tonight.
madam president, a minute to stress the importance of completing the configuration of the european union with the candidacy of serbia, which i hope can be confirmed this year on the basis of the important progress made by serbia, recognised by the council in deciding to push forward the accession process and recognised by this parliament in the report by mr kacin, whom i congratulate. and a minute to recall that the different positions on kosovo within the european union have favoured serbia's clear european commitment, which is essential for the consolidation of peace and democracy in the balkans and for achieving a constructive approach to regional integration, as was shown on 2 june by the holding, under the spanish presidency, of the high-level summit in sarajevo. i hope that serbia will have the full cooperation of the european union in carrying out the reforms it needs in the field of justice, in the fight against corruption and also in the field of intra-regional dialogue.
mr president, i will not go back on what has already been said. the belgian presidency has been a magnificent presidency. i would like to emphasize two gems here: financial supervision and the european semester. i would like to underline them to say what has been done and, above all, what needs to be done. in the field of financial supervision, minister reynders, in 48 hours, managed to unblock a file that was stuck and we were able to give the council and the commission what the commission had asked us for: european authorities that could start functioning on 1 january 2011, strong authorities, genuinely european authorities, authorities with teeth. what happened next is not reassuring. we still do not have chairmen of the authorities; we have an extraordinarily meagre budget and i am told that the remuneration for the people who will occupy the posts in those authorities is not brilliant. certainly not as bright as the bonuses that bankers in london get. two remaining issues: regulation of systemic entities and contributions and taxes on banking. in the regulation of systemic entities, we want supervision to be the responsibility of the european authority, through the national authorities, who would in this case act as agents and be subject to the instructions of the continental authority. otherwise, it wouldn't make sense. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. this parliament has already voted on two contributions: the contribution to the coordinated guarantee funds and the contribution to the bank stability funds. that is a fact, we can discuss the tax on banking activity or the tax on banking transactions later, but the other, i insist, is a fact. and as far as the european semester is concerned, we simply want to coordinate with everything: with eurobonds, with project bonds, with mechanisms, etc. (the president cut the speaker off) )
mr president, mr leterme, i too, as the socialist group's representative on employment and social affairs, would like to join my colleagues in congratulating the belgian presidency on its six months. and how is it possible that, even though you have spoken little about the social dimension and even though there is no huge social balance in the belgian presidency, i can join in your congratulations? simply because, mr leterme, i have had the privilege of working with your ministers, mrs onkelinx and mrs milquet, and i know the effort they and their teams have made to put forward a social agenda in such difficult circumstances and in a council so insensitive to social europe as the one we unfortunately have today. and yet they have worked with courage, with responsibility, with a high europeanist spirit and tried to make the european parliament heard, to make the european citizens heard at this critical time when europe's future is at stake. i therefore join in that congratulations, mr leterme, and i hope that in the future, as far as the challenges are concerned, what you have said is true, that europe will find its soul. and that soul, mr leterme, must be a political soul and a social soul, not just an economic one. and i would simply like to refer to a couple of dossiers which have been left unfinished by your presidency and on which i hope you will transmit that europeanist and humanist spirit to the next hungarian presidency, because we are playing a very big game here in the future of europe. i am referring to the dossiers relating to the dimension of europe's migration policy, the single permit, the two directives on seasonal workers and intra-company transfers. mr leterme, tell your colleagues to look at the long term. there can be no unequal treatment of workers coming to europe. there must be equal treatment or we will open a pit of incalculable consequences for the future of the union. it is not possible for these workers to arrive in europe in unequal conditions to those who work here, because we will be destroying europe. let me say, mr leterme, that in the next six months, may the hungarians listen to you and may you regain your freedom of speech in the council, and may the council turn towards the soul of europe, which can only be a humanist soul and a soul of progress.
mr president, there is at least one area of importance for europe and for the region to which i belong - the basque country - in which you have done absolutely nothing. the lisbon treaty gives this parliament powers in the fisheries sector. the council blocked several plans for anchovy fisheries. at the beginning of your presidency i myself was prepared to continue negotiations in order to unblock important plans and you have not made any effort to unblock these aspects. i cannot therefore congratulate you because, in essence, the council does not recognise the powers which the treaty of lisbon confers on this house. i think they have missed an opportunity to solve a problem that has been dragging on since the spanish presidency. they have not moved any of the cards, so i hope the next presidency will be able to do so. and i would have appreciated, too, a little attention to my speech.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
we have now reached the end of the voting period.
we now move on to the explanations of vote.
in writing. − having sought legal advice, the services stated that, having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for official codification of legislative texts, and in particular to point 4 thereof, the consultative working party consisting of the respective legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission met on 21 september 2010 for the purpose of examining, among others, the proposal submitted by the commission. at that meeting, an examination of the amended proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council codifying the third council directive 78/855/eec of 9 october 1978 based on article 54(3)(g) of the treaty concerning mergers of public limited liability companies resulted in the consultative working party’s concluding, without dissent, that the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance. with this in mind, we decided to support the proposal.
in writing. − having regard to the draft council decision (06903/2010), having regard to the draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the hashemite kingdom of jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and of romania to the european union (09373/2008), having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with article 217 and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a), of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0384/2010), having regard to rules 81, 90(8) and 46(1) of its rules of procedure, having regard to the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs (a7-0373/2010), the verts/ale group agreed that parliament should give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. − as the court of justice of the european communities has ruled, the community has exclusive competence with respect to various aspects of external aviation which were traditionally governed by bilateral air services agreements between member states and third countries. consequently, the council authorised the commission in june 2003 to open negotiations with third countries in order to replace certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with community agreements. thus, the commission has negotiated an agreement with the west african economic and monetary union that replaces certain provisions in the existing 47 bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and member states of the west african economic and monetary union. parliament is entitled to give its consent to the conclusion of this agreement in accordance with rule 81 of the rules of procedure. parliament shall take a decision by means of a single vote, and no amendments to the agreement itself may be tabled. on the basis of the above, the rapporteur suggested that the committee on transport and tourism, first, and then parliament as a whole, should give a favourable opinion on the conclusion of this agreement. the verts/ale group did so.
in writing. − this regulation comes before the parliament for second reading in view of its final adoption. parliament’s first reading took place during the previous parliamentary term. the council adopted its position in 2010 and subsequently there were intense informal trialogue negotiations under the belgian presidency in order to reach a compromise solution. this regulation is very technical but is politically highly relevant for the greens because its main purpose is to harmonise requirements regarding the marketing of construction products. the verts/ale group’s major concerns have been to make sure, inter alia, that (i) procedures should be transparent (in particular the standardisation bodies should not be monopolised by representatives of the major industries, and the concerns of smes or other stakeholders should be taken into account); (ii) construction requirements and procedures should be able to boost innovative and more ecological patterns; (iii) special procedures for ‘micro-enterprises’ should not allow the industry to circumvent the requirements or procedures.
in writing. − since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on 1 december 2009, the union’s humanitarian activities have been governed by article 214 tfeu, establishing a specific eu policy for humanitarian aid as a competence shared between the member states and the union. thus, when council regulation (ec) no 1257/96 of 20 june 1996 concerning humanitarian aid is revised under the codecision procedure it will have its own legal basis. the lisbon treaty also provided for the creation of the european external action service (eeas). the deve committee expressed its concern that humanitarian aid should not be instrumentalised under eeas and advocates preserving the independence of dg echo. it also asks for the roles of commissioners ashton and georgieva to be clarified. as the mid-term review offers an opportunity to step up eu's efforts in a number of areas, the report draw attention on the following issues among others: the promotion of humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law; the issues of quality, coordination and consistency in the delivery of eu humanitarian aid; clarification on the use of military and civil protection resources and capabilities in accordance with the consensus and the un guidelines; disaster risk reduction and reinforcement of the link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development.
in writing. − the report was adopted without the support of the verts/ale group, which voted against. the reason for that negative vote was that paragraph 14 remained in the text. it ‘calls on the commission to propose a technical solution to the problem of low-level presence of gm material in non-gm imports, and to propose a faster approval process within the eu for the importation of a new gm feed variant once it has been proved safe’.
mr president, mr president of the commission, the commission is promoting innovation in various areas of our energy system. i can name second-generation biofuels, fusion, fourth-generation fission, smart grids, renewable energy in general, energy efficiency in general, hydrogen use in fuel cells, co2 capture, transport and storage, electric vehicles, and the list could go on. the resources are scarce, mr president, and not everything can be done. many citizens are asking themselves - and i am conveying this concern to you today - which of these things will the commission, in the present difficult context, focus on. which of these priorities is or are the commission's priority?
mr president, i think it is right to thank the rapporteurs, especially mrs grossetête and mrs roth-behrendt of my own group, for the work they have done to bring a regulation out of the doldrums and into a useful one, because this work has allowed us to include the right to public health as a legal basis and to have a new orientation which allows us to lay the foundations for guaranteeing citizens the safety and quality they choose at any given time and, above all, because it also allows us to regulate clearly the role of the states, both those of origin, who have to pay, and those in which treatment is received. but i think we should not be satisfied with that alone, but this must be the beginning of a much greater step forward, which will make this directive - as mrs roth-behrendt said - a mere formality, because the level of equality achieved in all the member states will make it unnecessary for every citizen to travel to every country. in this struggle, we must achieve a rule that guarantees more the right of citizens in relation to the care they have to receive 'benefits and security' than the mere right, which they already have, to mobility between states. equality is what will make union and, if not, we will be taking very small steps.
member of the commission. − mr president, once again let me congratulate parliament on the major achievement of reaching a conclusion on this directive. i am very pleased to see this directive being adopted. i must say that i cannot agree with the inference that this initiative promotes health tourism or enables health insurance companies to reduce costs. rather, it is an assurance that citizens in need of health care can be in a better position to get it, freeing them from bureaucratic shackles that sometimes preclude them from doing so. i believe the directive is a real breakthrough for patients and for reinforcing a europe of health. i must agree with mrs roth-behrendt, mrs mcguinness and others that this should be an incentive for member states to invest in their own healthcare systems because, as i have said in public many times referring to this directive, we do not want to make nomads out of our citizens. we want our citizens to get the best treatment they can get at home. with this directive, patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare are now enshrined in eu legislation, but our work does not stop here. i refer here to mrs parvanova’s question about possible stand-alone proposals on interoperability. i must say that interoperability is also key to making this initiative, this directive, operational and implementable, because i cannot see us implementing this directive in a really good way without a proper interoperable e-health system. on the other hand, interoperability is also very important for increasing equality in health care and improving the sustainability of health care. i now look forward to working together with the member states to see this directive properly implemented and enforced throughout the eu. much remains to be done, both at european and national level, to ensure that cooperation between health systems in europe becomes a reality. you can count on me to pursue this challenge with all my determination and energy.
the president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, former rapporteur. thank you very much for this fruitful discussion. i think that you have presented very well the points which have been the most difficult for the participants in the debate in both the council and this house over the last few years, and i am very pleased that the vast majority of members have agreed with you. yes, this directive creates a clearer picture, a more transparent system at the service of european citizens. the hungarian presidency, as will become clear at tomorrow's programme presentation, wants to put people at the centre of its programme. it turns out that what we've created isn't perfect. there's room for more work. mr. dalli just mentioned that. i found the debate very interesting, which was about the single market and the services directive and how this story relates to patients' rights. i think it was very smart not to approach it from the services side, because everyone remembers the storm that the services directive was in its day. it was good that through patient rights, this directive was born, that it allows for the free movement of patients and that patients can still get better quality and timely services. so, a different approach, but i think we've accomplished our goal. what is very important is that this directive reinforces freedom of choice, beyond the principles of equal opportunities, the right to better quality care, equity and solidarity that i have already mentioned. mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i am very pleased that this directive will be born under the hungarian presidency. the glory is not ours, but of your predecessors, of belgium and spain and the members of this house. i am very grateful to the european citizens for the excellent cooperation between the council and the parliament.
i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate mrs grossetête on the excellent work she and the various group rapporteurs have done on a very delicate and very complicated subject, which i think we should give a lot of publicity to, because it is one of the subjects that will really reach all the citizens of the 27 member states. i'm very happy for you, mrs grossetête.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the extraordinary joint debate on the report by mrs marisa matias, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other dementias (2010/2084 (ini)) (a7-0366/2010), and the oral question to the commission on asthma inhalers by mrs erminia mazzoni, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-0182/2010 b7-0666/2010).
i am grateful to you, mrs mazzoni, above all for sharing my perplexity at the overlap between the two subjects, which of course does not mean that i am dismissing an important question, and which you raise as chairman of the committee on petitions, of which i am a member, and i therefore have the greatest interest in what is being done there. it will be very difficult for the commissioner and for those who are speaking to mix up two subjects of such a different nature and therefore it is questionable whether it is reasonable to put the debate on the agenda as it has been put.
vice-president of the commission. − about greece, i am not able to answer because i do not know the details. i have not received any information about these troubles. about the munich-mühldorf-freilassing-salzburg priority project number 17, it is ongoing. the initial work started in 2007. some of the work is finished. on 19 april 2010 the work on the new double-track bridge crossing of the river in mühldorf started and will be finished. it is fully funded by the german recovery plan. it costs eur 11.7 million, so it is developing and we do not consider this as a major trouble at this moment.
vice-president of the commission. − the commission shares the view of the honourable member that texting while driving, like all extraneous activities, is extremely dangerous. in 2009 the commission issued a report on the use of mobile phones when driving. this report is published on the europa road safety website. however, we have no statistics on the number of accidents caused by this practice. all member states have legislation which, at least implicitly, prohibits texting, e-mailing and web browsing while driving. while not specifically referring to the use of mobile phones, legal provisions in domestic legislation state that drivers must be fully concentrated on driving. against this background the commission does not intend to introduce an additional layer of eu-wide legislation in order to ban the practices of texting, e-mailing and web browsing while driving a motorised vehicle. we hope that member states will deal with this issue adequately.
mr president, i am only speaking to inform you that i am rapporteur on the dossier on crossborder sanctions, where the council has been given the opportunity to open the list of infringements - which was even an initial proposal from the commission - and where the problem of the use of mobile phones has just appeared. but unfortunately, the change in the legal basis which the council agreement has provided us with does not involve the united kingdom or ireland, which have an opt-out. that is one of the problems we have and which perhaps we could improve in parliament. i hope that in the debate with the council these countries - the united kingdom seems to be trying to opt in already - will express their interest, although we know nothing.
madam president, commissioner, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i did not want to start my speech without greeting the ngos on the ground; i think they do a commendable job, they represent the best of our values, the best of humanity's values. it is now one year since the earthquake in haiti and it is probably time to increase effectiveness. we have many problems on the table that need to be dealt with urgently and without delay. there's no doubt about it. the first problem is probably to build acceptable sanitation. i think it's the number one priority that threatens life today in haiti. and once that is resolved, we will have to deal with the housing problem, resolving the issue of title deeds urgently. moreover, we need a legitimate government, democratically elected, able to negotiate. i know that the situation is not easy, but we need this dialogue, legitimate dialogue, to speed up the improvement of the situation in haiti. and then we have a major problem, which many colleagues have already mentioned: the rubble, which is a major political problem in itself. and we must not stop looking to the future to start setting up a long-term education strategy. what has happened in haiti probably would not have happened if there had been public education and care for children as it should have been. we need to end not only poverty, but also dependency.
madam president, i think it is pretty clear that the message we want to send to the lithuanian parliament – and not only to them but also to all those who still presume to debate what are basic facts – is more necessary than ever. i think there are two facts of which we need to remind some colleagues who may have forgotten them. the first is that homosexuality has been declassified as a mental illness; and the second, which is particularly relevant here, is that there is no credible research to show that educating children about homosexuality can affect their sexual orientation. these are facts, and no legal text or proposed legislation can contradict them. so the message we want to send tomorrow is simply to remind our colleagues that these matters should not be up for discussion. that is why we need to pass this resolution and that is why we also need to support the attempts by the president of lithuania to stop what is happening. but i insist: the message is directed not only at the lithuanians but also at all those who still presume, on occasion, to put such matters up for discussion.
mr president, anyone reading the newspapers today will be able to make two observations: we are at the height of the sovereign debt crisis and the european response is a succession of isolated provisions without internal consistency. only now are we dealing with the european semester, the economic governance package, the temporary and permanent rescue mechanism, the so-called 'eurobonds' to cover part of the sovereign debt that is considered safe, plus a shock plan based on the european investment bank and the bonds for specific projects that are in the proposal that the commission has sent us on the internal market. the first thing that the speakers are trying to do is to put all this together, to make a complete design, a final drawing, to put it out to the public. secondly, it must be a european design, a design which does not divide europe in two - we must not fall into a two-speed europe - and a design which pursues two objectives with equal intensity: budgetary discipline - whatever is necessary - and economic growth to get out of the crisis we are in. a note on the rescue mechanism referred to by the president-in-office of the council. there was an initial statement that private investors would be involved in the bailouts, which caused a commotion and the protest of the president of the european central bank. it was qualified, as mr van rompuy has now done, by saying, first, that it would be a case by case 'who decides and with what criteria?' and, secondly, that it would be done following the criteria and the policy of the international monetary fund. the only case where the international monetary fund has used a bailout of this kind was in argentina in 2003; it plunged the country into a chaos from which it has not yet emerged and private bondholders are still unpaid. in the case of eurobonds, many issues have been raised here. i just want to add two. it would create a market as liquid as the united states and give a boost to the euro as a reserve currency, making it easier for central banks to invest their reserves here and so would sovereign wealth funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
madam president, mr prime minister, on behalf of the spanish socialists, i greet the hungarian presidency, the third presidency of the first trio of presidencies that inaugurate the new dynamic established by the treaty of lisbon. this requires consistency with the common scenario set by the three countries - spain, belgium and hungary - but also, and above all, consistency with the principles, values and objectives set out in the lisbon treaty itself, because the absolute priority is its implementation and compliance. article 2 of the lisbon treaty sets out among these common values and principles the respect for freedoms, the protection of minorities and pluralism, including information pluralism. i therefore share your concern that the very important objectives of the hungarian presidency may be distorted by national debates or by peculiarities rather than by what unites us. the hungarian media act cannot and should not be approached as an internal market issue in the national transposition of the audiovisual services directive, no! it is a debate which affects neither the single market nor hungary alone. it affects fundamental rights and the whole of the union, and that is why i join those who are convinced that we will only emerge from this crisis by means of greater integration, not by strengthening competitive nationalisms. the criterion for judging the presidency will be its willingness to take the lead in implementing these values and objectives of the lisbon treaty from loyalty to the commitments acquired by membership of the european union. (blue card) (rule 149 (8)): the speaker agrees to answer the question)
madam president, i listened very carefully to what mr lópez aguilar said and i would remind him that at the moment the spanish government, led by his party, is preparing the creation of a state media council and a law against unequal treatment and discrimination which is a sword of damocles against a possible opponent or politician, or which can intervene on media content. so, mr lópez aguilar, before you criticise the others - and i will not go into the substance of the question of hungarian law - think that it is not good to have two standards and to judge with different standards. you were, don't forget, minister of justice.
madam president, this is not the first time that we have heard absolutely inappropriate comparisons between a law which has caused concern throughout the european union and also among very distinguished representatives of your own political family, mr vidal-quadras, and those laws which, while respecting the rights to freedom of expression, to the free formation of public opinion in a pluralistic society and, of course, to information pluralism, establish audiovisual councils which have no role in interfering with information pluralism, let alone in the predetermination of information content. that is the case in spain, as in many other examples which have come to light in this house and have nothing to do with the subject which has been the subject of so much concern in this debate.
madam president, the spanish socialist delegation voted in favour, as did the rest of our group, but i would not leave this house without expressing my concern that the question of organ transplants should be included in this directive, contrary to the view of the committee on the environment and as a result of the council's continuing determination to include transplants in this directive. i hope that this inclusion will not undermine the good legislation we have adopted in this very house, both with the transplant directive and with the action plan very recently, and with practically all the support. and i warn you that we will be vigilant so that this inclusion does not undermine the good work of such successful organisations as the national transplant organisation of spain and, of course, the claim to save 20,000 lives that we had both in the directive on transplants and in the action plan that, i repeat, we approved here. i therefore make it clear that we will continue to monitor compliance with this directive in this respect.
in writing. − the legislation adopted today is an important step forward for patients' rights in the eu. the greens believe the final compromise adopted today strikes the right balance between guaranteeing patients' rights to cross-border healthcare and safeguarding the provision of quality health services at national level. patients will have the right to get hospital treatment in other member states and be reimbursed as they would for receiving the treatment at home; however this right should not be at the expense of the viability of national health systems. the greens believe the final compromise allows member states to establish a reasonable system of prior authorisation for the reimbursement of treatment costs, with meps succeeding in limiting the list of reasons for which a patient can be refused cross-border treatment. importantly, member states would no longer be able to refuse reimbursement after prior authorisation has been granted, which was a key concern.
in writing. − after a thorough scrutiny together with several ngos, we have decided to support the signature of the two vpas. greens’ recommendations were unanimously adopted in committee. however, we demanded in our explanatory statement that the commission explains some details more in depth. thus, to raise some additional concerns, an oral question with debate has been tabled, with the support of all political groups, underlining the need for the commission to make sure some criteria are guaranteed, not only during the signature phase, but also during the most crucial implementation phase of the agreements. for example, we ask the commission to present, within six months of the entry into force of any vpa, a report on the measures undertaken to ensure that the dialogue between the stakeholders and civil society, including the local and indigenous population, continues and is maintained during the implementation phase. underlined in the text are the risk of large-scale exploitation of forests, and both direct and indirect impact of commercial logging on wildlife, biodiversity, deforestation, degradation of forests, and local populations and indigenous people. we have also tried to raise the crucial need to ensure freedom of speech and respect for human rights, so that any complaints are heard in any country concerned by vpas.
in writing. − as a part of flegt (forest law enforcement, governance and trade), exporter countries of tropical hardwood have begun to sign voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) with the eu to ensure the traceability and legality of timber and verification procedures. the objective of the two flegt vpas with the republic of congo and cameroon is to provide a legislative framework which aims to: (i) detect and ensure the traceability of timber, (ii) put in place independent verification procedures to certify all timber exports from the partner country to the european market, in order to provide a basis for the legal management and exploitation of the congolese and cameroonian forests, and (iii) reinforce the application of forestry regulations and governance. a vpa has already been signed between the eu and ghana in 2009. with the lisbon treaty, the european parliament has co-decision and needs to give its formal assent to two vpas relating to cameroon and the republic of congo. morevpas are to come in the near future, especially with some asian countries and also with the democratic republic of the congo.
in writing. − greens maintain their long-standing opposition to epas with any of the acp regions, and consequently do not see the added value of the iepa with two of the pacific states. in this specific case, greens fear further de-integration of this region widely spread over the pacific ocean, as a consequence of iepa preferential trade arrangements with the eu. furthermore, a predictable unfettered increase in traditional exports, concentrated in raw materials such as copper, sugar, copra, fish and palm oil (agro-fuels!) is entirely at odds with sustainable development needs. hence, greens supported the pacific trade ministers’ (unsuccessful) request to revise critical elements of the iepa, namely the definition of ‘substantially all trade’, the ban on the use of export taxes and weak infant industry safeguards, and the most favoured nation (mnf) clause. on the global sourcing aspect, an alternative solution would have been to limit the provision to catches inside the 200-mile exclusive economic zone (eez), rather than in any waters. last but not least, fiji does not have a democratic regime. our shadow, josé bové, tabled 11 amendments in that regard.
in writing. − we, greens/efa, have abstained. in the joint motion for a resolution, following negotiations among political groups, the negative points of the epp resolution were replaced. nevertheless, the resolution was initiated by italians in response to a very specific national need and in relation to a matter which does not fall under european competence. we have succeeded in making the resolution merely ‘a call for the possibility of coordinating at european level the strategies related to the instrument of international adoption’, with no reference to specific national problems. as we are already working on this matter in the juri and libe committees, there was no need for such a resolution.
in writing. − our group voted in favour, given that 16 out of the 17 amendments tabled were adopted or included in the compromise amendments drafted by the rapporteur, including the one asking that the candidacy be linked to closer cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty). other amendments dealt with kosovo, gender equality, minority rights, civil society, public transport, environment and relations with bosnia.
in writing. − the european parliament's consent to the ec-serbia stabilisation and association agreement, after the council decided to initiate its ratification process, is an important step on the road to the integration of the western balkans into the eu. my positive vote is based on my view of the eu as a leading actor with an obligation to support the full stabilisation of the western balkans. the eu's international credibility is strongly linked to its ability to act in its neighbourhood. and in the case of the western balkans, including serbia, it seems that the only possible path is eu membership. however, such accession is subject to a number of conditions. the willingness of serbia to move towards eu integration is remarkable. however, despite the consent given today by parliament, a resolution has also been adopted which, although the most positive resolution adopted by this house on serbia, recalls that belgrade's cooperation with the international criminal court, as well as its full commitment to democracy and the rule of law, remains an imperative on its path to the eu.
in writing. − we have given our support to this text because most of the amendments we presented were adopted. those amendments dealt with kosovo, gender equality, minority rights, civil society, public transport, environment and relations with bosnia the one rejected will be re-tabled as it was lost on a tied vote (27 to 27). it is very important as it calls on serbia to enter into dialogue with kosovo without referring to new negotiations on either status or partition.
in writing. − we have supported this proposal because, among other things, it calls on the council to declare dementia to be an eu health priority and strongly urges the member states to develop specific national plans and strategies for alzheimer’s disease in order to deal with the social and health consequences of dementia and to provide services and support for people with dementia and their families, as has been done in several member states where the alzheimer’s and similar diseases plan launched in 2008 has made it possible to coordinate medical and social care and clinical and basic research into these diseases at national level.
in writing. − with the adoption of this resolution, the ep:1. considers that the commission’s reply to the committee on petitions failed to respond sufficiently to the questions raised by the petitioner and the committee members or to the concerns raised in the opinion of the committee on legal affairs;2. calls on the commission immediately to take the steps needed to end the still-pending procedure initiated in 1997 under the safeguard clause of article 8 of directive 93/42/eec; and3. calls on the commission urgently to respond to the legitimate concerns of the petitioner – who has been experiencing this intolerable situation for 13 years and has consequently suffered considerable loss of earnings – and to take the necessary steps to enable the petitioner to assert his rights.
in writing. − haiti is again a matter of urgency. we reiterate with this resolution our solidarity with the people of haiti suffering as a result of the earthquake and the cholera epidemic, and stress that reconstruction efforts must involve the consultation of, and include, the haitian people and haitian civil society. we also urge a strong, long-term commitment from the international community, including the eu, to honour all the pledges made at the international donors’ conference in new york and to deliver the funds without delay. we stress further that all eu humanitarian and reconstruction assistance must be provided in the form of grants rather than loans which have to be paid back.
in writing. − once again we had to call on the seimas to reject the draft amendments to the code of administrative offences, include sexual orientation in the list of protected grounds in the law on education, enable minors to freely access information on sexual orientation, and clarify the meaning of the ban in the law on advertising, although, at the same time, we acknowledge the firm stand taken on several occasions by president of the republic of lithuania, dalia grybauskaitė, denouncing draft homophobic legislation as being harmful for lithuanian citizens and the image of lithuania. parliament calls on the president to veto the amendments to the code of administrative offences should they be approved.
mr president, the recent attacks in iraq and egypt highlight two tragedies for europe, although they are of a different nature. firstly, tragedy by the facts themselves, by their cruelty and by the loss of human life. but secondly, it is also a tragedy to observe the way in which they go unnoticed, too often, in our society. in many cases, the way we act means that they are condemned to the pages of events in the media, as if they were something external, as if they were not an attack on us, as if they only happened on the outside, when, in fact, these attacks occur in the heart and against the core of our civilization, of our europe. the role of the european institutions is primarily to raise awareness of the seriousness of the significance and the extent of the attacks against christians in those places. and the european institutions must not only issue general statements of condemnation, but must promote a series of two types of action: the first is that this tragedy should be more present in our societies, in our media, and the second is that the european institutions should be more present where the tragedy occurs. with that objective and those two lines of action, let me say, madam vice-president, that the european institutions and you yourself must promote the relevant role of the victims of these events. we need to put a face and eyes on the victims. the victims must be present in our european institutions. we must prepare a programme of visits, meetings, even programmes of material support for the victims, but those who will best defend their cause are the victims themselves who suffer from this terrible persecution.
mr president, this debate is very necessary in view of the recent serious events affecting religious freedom and even the lives of christians. i am referring in particular to what has happened mainly in pakistan, iraq, nigeria and egypt. article 18 of the universal declaration of human rights covers at length what it calls "freedom of religion". however, this is unfortunately a right which is not respected in many countries. even now we see that the profession of christianity can cost lives. the european union, mrs ashton, must vigorously defend the right to religious freedom in general, incorporate it clearly in its external action and demand respect, freedom and security for the most persecuted religious group in the world today, the christian community. all governments concerned must be called upon to do what is necessary to prevent such attacks and, if that is not possible, to arrest and punish those responsible. ladies and gentlemen, freedom, including religious freedom, is a hallmark of european identity and is part of the essential core, mrs ashton, of human rights. this freedom is also a path to peace, as benedict xvi recalled in his message of 1 january. i would also like to stress the essential role of christianity in the creation of european identity. it would therefore be a sad paradox if the european union did not call for the protection of the most basic rights of christians in the world with the greatest firmness and did not help them as much as possible. the european parliament resolution contains formulae for a better defence of religious freedom in general and that of christians in particular. i welcome the fact that the next foreign affairs council will study them carefully and i would ask, and i conclude, mr president, that the next european council on 4 february should take a position on these serious events, as president sarkozy did, for example, with all his courage.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for affairs and security policy. − mr president, i want to begin as mr danjean did, with the terrible news of the death of two young frenchmen who were kidnapped 10 days ago in niger’s capital, niamey, and killed only a few hours later. we have condemned what is a truly appalling crime and i reiterate our condolences to their families, as well as to those of niger’s officers who were killed during the ensuing shooting. i want to express solidarity with the french authorities and the authorities of niger. of course, another five french citizens are still being held hostage somewhere in the desert of northern mali by al-qa’ida in the islamic maghreb. in the last year alone, 10 european citizens were kidnapped and four were killed. the security situation in the sahel is alarming: organised crime networks, weak state presence in the desert zones and low capacity of security sectors in addition to widespread poverty, drought and food shortages. these threats pose a serious challenge to development work and prospects, as it has become too risky for those engaged in development to continue their operations in this environment. the eu and its member states have been contributing for several years to tackling the development and the security problems in individual sahel countries, but threats to security transcend national borders and the only possible, the only effective response is a regional and comprehensive one. we need to make the ongoing european engagement in the sahel more coherent, more coordinated and more effective. last october, the foreign affairs council gave me the task of preparing, in association with the commission, a strategy for the sahel for the beginning of this year. this strategy was to be based on a holistic and integrated approach, making use of the various instruments at our disposal in a coherent way, so we can foster security, stability, development and good governance in sahel. i believe that, in order to respond to the complexity of the challenges of the sahel, we have to act at various different levels. firstly, we need a political and diplomatic dimension. that is necessary to ensure that we facilitate dialogue between the sahel countries, which continue to harbour mutual distrust. we should build on the national strategies that we have – where they exist – and encourage the setting up of regional initiatives and tools to jointly address security threats. in parallel, the eu should reinforce the dialogue on security in the sahel with the maghreb countries, regional organisations – the african union, ecowas and cen-sad –, and also the international community at large and the united nations, the united states and canada in particular. secondly, we need to assist the sahel countries in enhancing the capabilities of the security sectors – army, police, justice and border control systems – in each country. they must be able to effectively re-establish the rule of law and security and redeploy state authority in the most sensitive regions. we will encourage regional cooperation between mali, mauritania and niger at an operational level so they can jointly and more effectively face the threat of al-qa’ida in the islamic maghreb, organised crime and domestic banditry. thirdly, in the longer term, the eu should continue to contribute to the development of the sahel countries in order to help them increase their capabilities to provide social services and development to the population. individual countries will continue to promote internal stability and help find both socio-economic solutions and solutions to ethnic tensions. fourthly, in order to prevent and fight against extremism and radicalisation, we need to support states and legitimate non-state actors in designing and implementing strategies and activities, with the aim of fighting islamic radicalisation and promoting democratic, tolerant and non-violent visions for society. our endeavour will be to use, in a coherent manner, the short-term and long-term instruments that we have in order to implement the different components of this strategy. member states’ engagement to build into the strategy will of course be part of this. i am working very closely with commissioner piebalgs, whose involvement in the preparation of the security and development strategy is essential, to ensure the necessary resources for its implementation. i am convinced that if we set up this new comprehensive and holistic strategy, continuing the political, diplomatic and operational development strands of our engagement in the sahel, we will give a new impetus to tackling the multiple threats and challenges that this region faces. i am looking forward to presenting this strategy properly in a few weeks’ time and involving the honourable members of the european parliament in discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, as the text of our oral question says, we have indeed been witnessing over the last three years an escalation of attacks against the interests and citizens of the european union in the south of the sahara, which has become a sanctuary for the islamic branch of al qaeda, with a whole rosary of murders, kidnappings, extortions, blackmail and drug and human trafficking of which german, italian, spanish and, lastly, french citizens have been victims, and we therefore wish to express our solidarity with our french colleagues and say, mrs ashton, that this situation necessarily requires a firm and uncompromising response from the european union, as president sarkozy has demanded. in this context, the answer must be given in the political, economic and development fields, and mr danjean reminded us of the enormous resources that are included in the european development fund. i would like to ask you, mrs ashton, to give your opinion on the g8 counter-terrorism summit in mali in october - when you received the mandate from the council - which algeria did not attend. you said that the response has to be a regional response. i think it is a bad sign that two actors in this conflict - morocco and algeria - are not cooperating with each other, and to this circumstance must be added the instability that is being experienced in tunisia. finally, mrs ashton, i would also like to ask you to assess the counter-terrorism centre set up by algeria 2000 km south of algiers, involving mali, mauritania and niger, and whether you share the interpretation that this counter-terrorism centre is intended to avoid the presence of the european union and the united states in order to try to ensure security in the area.
mr president, as you know, niger, one of the central countries of the sahel region, is to hold presidential and legislative elections at the end of this month. i think it is an important gesture of support for this country that mrs ashton has decided to send a delegation from the european union to these elections, and i would like to thank her for thinking of me as her chairman. first of all, i would like to express my regret at the recent murder of two french young men in niger by terrorists, not forgetting the nigerian military personnel who died during the rescue operation. the people of this region clearly reject violence and terrorism, since they are the first to suffer, but they ask the european union to do everything possible to help them eradicate terrorist violence and, among other things, to provide arms and training for the armed forces so that they can respond appropriately to these terrorist incursions. on the other hand, niger, despite its wealth of natural resources, is one of the least developed countries in the world. the european union must therefore make an effort to establish an effective development cooperation strategy to help this country and the whole region to overcome the difficult situation in which it finds itself. i think we are playing a very big game in this part of the world because its stability depends not only on its well-being but also on that of europe, given its geographical proximity.
mr president, this debate on libya is taking place at a time when very important changes are taking place in another mediterranean neighbour, tunisia. i have always considered that the european union must help to promote serious reforms in the mediterranean region, with the aim of achieving an area of freedom and prosperity there. i refer to my speeches in this house over the years, in which i have repeated that the union's policy cannot be directed simply towards maintaining the status quo. but this is not the specific issue under discussion today, but the framework agreement with libya. i would like to stress the need to cooperate with libya in the management of migration flows, including an agreement on the readmission of illegal immigrants which includes third country nationals, as is the case in all readmission agreements concluded by the union. to give in to libyan positions opposed to this agreement would be detrimental given libya's important position as a transit country and would also send a very negative message to the negotiations with morocco and algeria on readmission agreements, which have been deadlocked for many years. now, it is true that we also have to insist on the libyan authorities to respect the rights of refugees, including - as has already been said - the principle of non-refoulement.
mr president, 2012: there is an urgent need for a common policy on asylum. the commission report presented on 8 september highlights the many obstacles faced by member states in achieving the objectives of directive 2005/85/ec. the right of asylum seekers to legal aid applies at different levels. many states meet the requirements of the directive by recognising assistance at the appeal stage, while others recognise the right to assistance both in the application procedure and at second instance. some states require a test of merit to decide whether or not to grant free legal aid at the appeal stage. in most cases there are strong differences in the time limits for appeals, while the applicability of the automatic suspension of the effects of negative decisions also presents difficulties, being applicable in only six member states. the differences mentioned make it clear that the mechanism of the directive cited above should be reviewed. for such a review, the commission stresses the need to concentrate efforts at the initial stage of the procedure, thereby aiming at greater efficiency in differentiating between persons who are entitled to protection and those who are not. according to the commission, this measure will help to save considerable costs in interpretation and legal assistance at second instance. however, this proposal is not accompanied by a detailed study of the costs of interpretation and legal aid at first instance, nor of the costs actually incurred by the member states at the present time of application of the european standard. for this reason, the commission needs to report on the actual costs related to its merger proposal. and i do not think the commission's refusal which i have just heard is acceptable. i think it is quite frankly unacceptable and will have to be reconsidered or it will have to be nuanced.
mr president, madam minister, we welcome you to this house, which has been yours, and we think that, although you have not been informed of this matter, you are interested in this asylum package - which has been a source of impetus in the belgian presidency - so that the hungarian presidency will really give it a boost too and, although some of its powers are not those which have been named here, it is true that, from the presidency, you can act so that the commission can have all the data it needs on this matter. we know how difficult it is for the commission and the council to collect this data, since some member states are not prepared to provide it, perhaps because they have not studied the consequences of improving the procedures for granting refugee status or international protection. but perhaps these member states do not consider that the unification of these procedures would improve the quality of the first stay - as has been said here - and would reduce the resources that are currently being presented and have to be managed by the member states that today receive the most asylum applications. perhaps this has not been emphasized enough. the effect of the diversity of procedures is that some member states bear more than others the burden of these asylum applications. the commission proposal, by improving these procedures, would avoid a large amount of resources and secondary movements, thus reducing the cost of a common asylum system by unifying procedures and avoiding reception costs. because we are not talking so much about the cost of these procedures but, above all, the cost of not having a common asylum system. we currently have several thousand asylum seekers at the european borders from the wars in afghanistan, iraq and failed or uncontrolled states such as somalia or sudan. when we talk about these costs, we don't take into account the human costs that it is assuming to have these claimants in detention centers, for several months, without the necessary guarantees, without even the guarantees that our criminals have, and without any assistance while the commissioners for refugees decide what kind of status to grant or not to grant. nor do we take into account the human cost of all those who have subsidiary protection for years and remain in these camps for the sole crime of having fled wars and having arrived in boats and being forced to leave their fingerprints. the crime they have committed is not having enough money to get on a plane and show up at airports. has the council considered that by simplifying these procedures it would avoid not only these tragedies but also the cost to some member states of maintaining this situation?
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr derk jan eppink, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the report on competition policy 2009 (2010/2137 (ini)) (a7-0374/2010).
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the 2009 competition policy report is probably one of the most extensive and rich reports produced by parliament - the committee on economic and monetary affairs was able to incorporate the views of three other parliamentary committees - and it comes after a five-year period of the entry into force of two important regulations, the modernisation regulation and the merger regulation, which have played a positive role in competition policy but whose implementation can still be improved if priorities are better aligned, cooperation is strengthened, administrative burdens are simplified and national rules are brought closer to community ones. the report recognises the importance of services of general interest in meeting the basic needs of citizens, and we believe it necessary to stress this in the new framework established by the treaty of lisbon. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the telecommunications sector, and to extend it to cover the whole of the telecommunications sector. competition policy is key in financial services. the aid has helped to stabilise and mitigate the effects of the crisis. the report stresses the provisional nature of the scheme and that its extension should be subject to stricter conditions, and that a level playing field should be restored in the exit process, avoiding moral hazard and, above all, restoring the competitive position of financial institutions which have not used state aid. in the financial field, three points were also stressed: transparency in financial information, the need for the european payment system to be accessible and transparent and to operate in a non-discriminatory and efficient manner, and, in addition, the need to combat unusually high prices for crossborder transactions with payment cards. it also expressed concern about smes and energy, welcomed the recommendations of the high level group on the dairy sector, which considered that the strengthening of the bargaining power of producers and new contractual relations should be compatible with competition policy, and called on the commission to take a legislative initiative to facilitate the exercise of individual or collective claims to obtain effective compensation for damage caused by infringements of competition law, avoiding the excesses of the us system. i therefore welcome it and congratulate the rapporteur, mr eppink, on his work.
mr. lamberts, mr. hans-peter martin has indicated with his blue card that he wants to ask you a question. are you in a position to listen to him? thank you very much. mr. martin, you have 30 seconds to question mr. lamberts.
it's a lot to ask in 30 seconds, but i'm sure mr. lamberts will be able to summarize it.
thank you, mr. lamberts, for such a precise answer on a complicated subject.
in reality, this is not so much an intervention under the 'blue card' procedure as an intervention on personal grounds. mr lamberts, i ask you to summarize, to see if you can take 30 seconds to explain your point of view to the honourable member.
no, we're not going to get into a dialogue. mr dartmouth, you may answer mr lamberts in the corridor later, but the rules do not provide for a question to be answered with a question. you have 15 seconds.
yes, i do invent rules. we are inventing rules all the time and we are contributing to the progress of the democratic functioning of the chamber. thank you for recognising that.
thank you, mrs mcguinness. it may be appropriate that in future debates of this kind the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development should also be heard.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission notes parliament’s call for more transparency, dialogue and information on competition policy. we will continue to inform you about important policy decisions relating to competition and will endeavour to address your requests in our response to your resolution, either in the next report on competition policy or on an ad hoc basis, as requested by mr bütikofer and other members. i note your call for sector inquiries in a number of markets. past experience shows that fair and firm enforcement itself produces positive effects on competition across a sector. sector inquiries are not always the best way to enforce our rules in a given sector. they are very expensive in terms of resources and should be used only when the commission’s policy objectives make an inquiry necessary. i can confirm again that the temporary crisis-related state aid measures are indeed temporary. i would like to pick up on a few of your questions in a really telegraphic way in the limited time available. firstly, on the investment and financial sector, consultation is ongoing on rescue and restructuring guidelines. secondly, on transport, the commission is preparing a white paper on the future of transport, which is due to be adopted in march 2011. this will outline several proposals for speeding up completion of the internal market for transport. thirdly, on services of general economic interest, the commission will report on this in the first quarter of this year. fourthly, on the digital agenda, the commission fully agrees with the importance of promoting a truly integrated digital internal market. fifthly, on smes, a level playing field for all companies, big and small, is essential for them to flourish. the commission’s enforcement of the competition rules is essential to enable this. we also have targeted state aid rules for smes, innovation, research and development and green technologies. next june, vice-president almunia will present to you the report on competition policy 2010. in the meantime, he will keep you informed on the issues you have raised and, in relation to paragraph 4 of parliament’s report, the services of dg comp will be instructed to respond to you in more detail.
we shall end with the speech by the rapporteur, mr eppink, whom we congratulate, by the way, because most of his colleagues have praised his work as author of this report.
thank you, mr eppink. you can see how your colleagues react, so your proposal will probably have the necessary support. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item is the report by mr michael gahler, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a sustainable eu policy for the high north (2009/2214 (ini)) (a7-0377/2010).
in writing. − for over 40 years, libya has been ruled by a dictatorial regime in which power is concentrated in one man, colonel khadafy, the longest serving african and arab leader. libyans enjoy free education and healthcare and subsidised housing, benefitting from some degree of social distribution of the oil income. yet, despite the gdp growth rates, development lags behind that of other oil-rich countries and libya is one of the less diversified economies in the region, foreign investment remaining at the mercy of the unpredictable decisions of the ruler. the libyan people do not enjoy basic human rights and freedoms, despite the fact that their state has specific international obligations to respect human rights, having been recently elected to the united nations human rights council and having ratified a number of legally binding international instruments. capital punishment is regularly carried out. in conclusion, libya’s strategic importance and the many challenges it poses underline the need for a comprehensive eu policy towards libya. the eu needs to engage with libya across a broad range of issues. this framework agreement must also be a substantive tool to promote the rule of law, respect for human rights, protection of migrants and refugees and sustainable development in libya.
in writing. − the european union has repeatedly expressed its commitment to freedom of religion, freedom of conscience and freedom of thought, and has stressed that governments have a duty to guarantee these freedoms all over the world. the development of human rights, democracy and civil liberties is the common base on which the european union builds its relations with third countries, and it has been provided for by the democracy clause in the agreements between the eu and third countries. article 18 of the international covenant on civil and political rights declares that everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; and freedom of thought, conscience and religion applies not only to adherents of religions but also to atheists, agnostics and people without beliefs. thus, we condemn the recent attacks on christian communities in various countries and expresses solidarity with the families of the victims; we express our deep concerns about the proliferation of episodes of intolerance and repression and violent events directed against christian communities, particularly in the countries of africa, asia and the middle east.
in writing. − with this resolution, parliament clearly considers – in line with the preliminary conclusions of the osce parliamentary assembly and osce/odihr – that the presidential elections of 19 december 2010 failed to meet international standards of free, fair and transparent elections; considers this vote as yet another missed opportunity for a democratic transition in belarus; and calls, in the light of numerous and serious irregularities reported by osce/odihr, for new elections be held under free and democratic conditions, in accordance with osce standards. it also condemns the use of brutal force by the police and kgb services against the protesters on election day and, in particular, expresses its indignation over a brutal attack on uladzimir niakliayeu – examples of the severe violation of basic democratic principles such as freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, as well as of human rights, and it expresses its concern at the attempts by the belarusian authorities to take into state custody danil sannikov, three-year-old son of presidential candidate andrei sannikov and investigative journalist irina khalip, both of whom have been jailed since the 19 december election.
in writing. − we have supported globally the proposed report, althought we lost some important votes regarding ecological taxation. however, in general terms, the text was good enough to be supported by us at the end (with no enthusiasm, that is true).
in writing. the european parliament's report on the high north adopted today makes an important contribution to the guidelines of european policy for the arctic region. climate change and the resulting melting are causing shifts in the region and in the approach of arctic states, which have been quick to define strategies to address the possibilities that are emerging. in particular, melting ice opens up the opportunity for the creation of new shipping routes and for the exploitation of natural resources. i have supported this report because it highlights the eu's responsibility for the climate change process which is changing the face of the arctic, and the need for action to mitigate it. at the same time, the report recognises the eu's legitimate interest in playing a role in the new scenario and highlights the imperative to seize the opportunities that arise by supporting the sustainable development of the area by its inhabitants, especially indigenous communities. on the other hand, it is also remarkable that the report points to the need to, first, observe international law in any action in the arctic and, second, to pursue a cooperative approach in the governance of the region.
in writing. − the arctic region is attracting more and more attention, due to the effects of climate change, the main trigger of developments. its effects are on a larger scale than in other regions of the world. at the same time, those changes are affecting other regions of the world, through rising sea levels on the one hand and consequences for adjacent regional climates on the other. thus europe does not only bear a certain responsibility, being one of the main contributors to pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, but also has a particular interest in the arctic, since it will have to deal with the consequences of the changes taking place there from environmental and climate-change issues to the geopolitics of shipping routes and security of supply of resources.
in writing. − we call on the commission and the european external action service (eeas) to draw up a strategy for the black sea region in parallel with the review of the european neighbourhood policy, thus defining an integrated and comprehensive eu approach to addressing the challenges and opportunities of the region, with a detailed action plan, clear objectives, flagship initiatives and benchmarks. we believe that the strategy will make for effective coordination of activities and division of tasks. as well as this, the ep reiterates its call on the commission and the eeas to carry out regular reviews of the implementation of the strategy by establishing concrete monitoring, evaluation, follow-up and reporting mechanisms, and urges that the relevant european parliament committees be consulted at key stages of this process.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the country, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain to us why he has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the country. i say this with all due respect and i say this with all due care and by pointing out, at the outset and at the beginning, my total solidarity with the victims of terrorism anywhere in the world, including in this one. i also say this with a desire to reflect globally on how such questions end up in a thursday afternoon sitting, when, i repeat, in that context we also have a sub judice situation where a judicial decision is pending. it is difficult for our group to support this situation and that is why we have tabled the abstention. we shall abstain, i repeat, not because the content or the subject does not merit reflection, but because we understand that this is neither the time nor the place to do so.
author. − mr president, i have to stay that i deeply deplore the fact that we once more have to talk about iran, but we have to. we really have to because the situation in iran is gravely problematic and dramatic. that is why it is important that this parliament reiterates once again its call for the release of all prisoners of conscience, including all those who have been detained over the last year in connection with their peaceful – and i repeat, peaceful – political and human rights activities. this parliament has to call again on the iranian authorities to respect the internationally recognised rights to freedom of expression and assembly, and strongly condemn the extraordinarily harsh sentence against nasrin sotoudeh and to commend her for her courage and her engagement. this is also why this parliament has to consider mrs sotoudeh, as well as her fellow human rights activists and prisoners of conscience, and demand her immediate release. we have to express our concern over the ever more frequently imposed sentence of a ban on leaving iran, which can lead to the logical conclusion that staying in iran is considered a punishment by the authorities. we have to call on the authorities to combat the impunity of human rights violators within the security forces and also reiterate our demand for an independent investigation into allegations of extra-judicial executions since june’s disputed presidential elections and for alleged violators to be brought to justice. evidently, we also have to strongly condemn the bomb attack in chabahar and to express our condolences to the victims’ families and the injured. finally, i should like to say that we are seriously concerned about the persecution of certain religions and ethnic groups in iran. we have to express our conviction, supported by recent european history, that peaceful and balanced social and political development can only be achieved by taking the cultural and social aspirations of differing regions into account.
mr president, after many years of work, we now have a perfectly clear idea of the objectives of energy policy in europe: the construction of an internal market, security of supply, the promotion of renewable energies, energy efficiency. in view of these objectives, which we have set ourselves, the document on which the european council is going to work is very unambitious; this is normal, because if the impetus for a common european energy policy is to come from the heads of state and government, we can wait and despair. they have a national, short-sighted, old-fashioned look. and yet we are playing a very big game, because today europe's backbone is energy policy. its principles must be defended with a single voice throughout the world, but unfortunately we are far from that.
mr president, yesterday our group held an alternative energy summit in which we called for 20% binding energy efficiency and 30% renewables by 2020. i would like to emphasize one point without which all the above is not possible: infrastructure. the question is: do we really want a european market that is fuelled by a third of renewables? if the answer is yes, should we not talk about 10% binding interconnections by 2020? the renewable energy deployment targets call for a more networked, smarter and, above all, more interconnected network in order to be able to manage its variability properly. however, we are far from achieving the 10% interconnection target agreed at the barcelona european council almost a decade ago. today, nine member states are still not meeting this target; you will agree with me that if we are to succeed, we need this target to have the same level of monitoring as the previous ones. i would therefore like to tell the council presidency that our group wants the next summit to produce much more ambitious conclusions, such as 30% renewables, 20% efficiency and 10% interconnections, all of which are binding. and on the subject of innovation, just a pinch: where we would like to see more ambition in the council conclusions is also on the subject of innovative public procurement. in my group we see public procurement of innovative products, processes and services as one of the key elements for boosting innovation in the markets. we are particularly interested in its strengthening and in its linkage with the european innovation partnerships within the framework of the innovation union. this is a point which the council should also not ignore.
vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, we have all been watching very closely the recent events in tunisia and more lately in egypt. the people in both countries have voiced legitimate grievances and aspirations and they expect a proper response not only from within their countries but also from their partners, including the european union. their message is clear: their political systems have reached a point of no return, and change must come now. i take this opportunity to express my admiration for their dignity and courage and, in the light of what we are seeing now on our television screens from egypt in particular, i call for calm and restraint and dialogue. i am going to begin by talking about tunisia. the changes that have taken place have been remarkable and have paved the way for more democratic development of the country. despite many challenges, we can already see the positive developments in tunisia, where efforts have been made to meet the demands of the population. the transitional government has taken some important steps, in particular by freeing political prisoners and allowing freedom of expression, as well as prosecuting members of former president ben ali’s family for corruption. furthermore, three independent commissions have been set up and have begun their work: the commission for inquiry into corruption and misuse of public funds; the commission for inquiry into abuses during the repression in the course of the latest events; and the high commission for political reform. i have taken note too of the most recent government reshuffle in response to popular demand. the government has received the support of the main opposition parties and the main trade union – the tunisian general labour union. peace and stability is important to allow tunisia to put in place democratic and transparent elections and effect vital political, economic and social changes. the european union is there to support the country and its people at this difficult moment of transition, and we have responded immediately – not in order to impose our views or ideas, but to offer our help and to work together. i spoke last week with the new minister of foreign affairs, mr ounaies, following his appointment, and we met together today in brussels. we had a substantial discussion here – the first place that he has visited since taking office – on the best way for the european union to support the transition and assist the tunisian people. he confirmed today the request for support from the eu in the preparatory phase of the elections and in the observation of future elections. we are about to dispatch an experts’ mission to tunisia to assess the electoral legislation and provide legal advice to the transition authorities on it, and last week eeas managing director hugues mingarelli was on the ground in tunisia discussing people’s needs with them. as for other forms of assistance, we have increased the allocation for cooperation with civil society. this will be combined with a reorientation of our assistance programmes to help the people more directly. liberal policies alone cannot bring the needed economic and social welfare and wealth distribution for all the tunisian people. so we are going to review with tunisia our priorities, to take account of the new situation and adapt our assistance to their social needs. today the minister conveyed to me details of the concerns that they have and the plans that they have, so that we will be able to respond, together with other international partners. i offered concrete support, initially in the areas of electoral support; governance and transition to democracy; support for civil society and ngos; support for the rule of law and judicial reform; economic governance and the fight against corruption; economic and social development (including support to impoverished areas in the centre and south of tunisia). we are also ready to consider, with the member states, mobility-related measures and increased market access. working-level contacts are well underway on all these issues and we will continue the dialogue. i plan to travel to tunisia the week after next. as for the tunisian authorities’ request that the assets of mr ben ali and people closely linked to his regime be frozen, we have already taken the initial steps. we accelerated procedures to allow the foreign affairs council on monday to adopt a decision on restrictive measures, with a view to imposing an assets freeze on persons under inquiry for embezzlement of state funds in tunisia. the tunisian authorities have communicated to us a list of persons who should be the object of these measures. as i indicated, our managing director hugues mingarelli travelled to the region last week. he had discussions with the preliminary government and the presidents of each of the three newly established commissions and met with civil-society representatives. i want to welcome too the european parliament initiative to send a delegation to tunisia. i believe it is vital that the tunisian people see the strong support of the eu, and in particular the european parliament, in what is a critical moment of transition towards democracy. we need to strengthen all possible people-to-people contacts and reach out to civil society, and that includes supporting ngos, professional associations and student exchanges. we now have an opportunity to strengthen the partnership between tunisia and the european union on the basis of an affirmation of democracy and economic and social reform. i hope we can build on the mutual respect and trust among our respective peoples to ensure stability and a democratic and prosperous future for tunisia. in that context i look forward to the upcoming free and democratic elections and the establishment of the new government. i have agreed with the tunisian foreign minister to resume negotiations on advanced status shortly, with a view to their conclusion once a new democratically elected government is in place. finally, the foreign minister described the atmosphere as an atmosphere of reconciliation. i hope that we will be able to work with tunisia to move that atmosphere forward towards a new, freer democracy. i will now address the situation in egypt. just over one week ago we witnessed the start of an extraordinary movement there. anti-government protests – clearly inspired by the events in tunisia and beyond, and organised mainly through social media and word of mouth – have, i think, taken the whole world by surprise. the great strength of this popular uprising is that it is happening across egypt. hundreds of thousands of people, young and old, men and women, are taking to the streets, demanding their legitimate political and socio-economic rights. the protests have spread from cairo to alexandria and suez and further across egypt and the crowds have continued to grow in size and diversity, with protestors united in their demands for regime change and for the observance of fundamental human rights. the initially relatively peaceful protests have become increasingly violent, with the police firing teargas and rubber bullets and using water cannons. we are concerned that live ammunition may also have been used. like all the honourable members here, i deplore the considerable loss of life during the demonstrations and my thoughts go out to those who have lost their loved ones. the large number of injured and arrested is also a cause of great concern, and all parties have to show restraint and stop the violence. we have prepared for the foreign affairs council on monday with our conclusions calling upon the egyptian authorities to immediately release all peaceful demonstrators who have been detained. freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are fundamental human rights for everybody, which the state has a duty to protect. the imposed restrictions on media, including the internet, are unacceptable and i urge the egyptian authorities to restore all communication networks without delay. through nationwide demonstrations, the egyptian people are expressing their wish to see change. hundreds of thousands have gathered in each rally across the country. it is of the utmost importance that these voices are listened to, now, and that the situation is addressed through urgent, concrete and decisive measures. the time has come for orderly transition and a peaceful and far-reaching transformation. the authorities must seek, and take seriously, an open dialogue with the political forces. it is important that civil society plays a crucial role in that dialogue. the egyptian authorities must move forward quickly through a broad-based government leading to a genuine process of substantial democratic reform and paving the way for free and fair elections. we will offer our full support to an egypt that strives for transformation to be more democratic and more pluralist. we have a shared interest in peace and prosperity in the mediterranean and middle east region. what we must do now is adapt and reinforce the means at our disposal to support the necessary political, economic and social reforms. our cooperation already has democracy, human rights and the rule of law as constituent elements and we have to refocus and strengthen that work. for me, politics is about changing things: about helping people shape their own lives. across the arab world, we are seeing lots of potentially positive change, driven by the demands of people. as the european union, our offer to the region and to the people is solidarity and support to put the reforms in place. we are a union of democracies – we have a democratic calling, so we will back this process of change with creativity and with determination.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam vice-president/high representative, ladies and gentlemen, whatever the outcome or the outcome of the situation in egypt, i think we can say that there will be a before and after of the events in tunisia. i do not think we should blame this house for the fact that the european union has been turned on its head by this crisis, but i do think we should draw some conclusions from this. firstly, the european union must be more visible, it must speak with one voice and avoid all cacophony, and that is why we have created the european external action service and the high representative. secondly, we must draw the appropriate lessons from policies of appeasement to the enemies of freedom, from belarus to cuba to the mediterranean countries. and we have to ask ourselves whether there is more stability, whether there is more prosperity and whether there is more democracy, as the barcelona process intended. and thirdly, mr president, i think we have to distinguish between what the european union has to do in the medium term and what it has to do in the short term. and in the short term - i think mrs ashton has laid out a path - the european union must firmly support these transitional processes so as not to frustrate the hopes of freedom of these friendly countries. and it is also our duty, mr president, to warn of the risks involved in these processes, so that they are not hijacked by the enemies of open societies. in the medium term, mr president, it is important that the european union should undertake a thorough strategic reflection on how to reform our neighbourhood policy in the sense that we asked mr füle yesterday in the committee on foreign affairs. and all this, mr president, without forgetting that it is often more difficult to maintain the balance of freedom than to shake off the yoke of tyranny.
mr president, mrs ashton, the european union must review its neighbourhood policy, because it is true that we have given the impression that we are more concerned with reaching free trade agreements than with the development of peoples and their human rights. the problem, mrs ashton, is not the position of the european union today vis-à-vis the ben ali or mubarak regimes, but what was the position of the european union before yesterday, which was neither there nor expected in relation to the changes demanded by the people in the streets. this is the problem which the european union has to solve: that we are not and are not expected to be part of the changes demanded by the people, not only in tunisia but also in morocco, egypt, jordan and yemen, a huge number of people who are no longer able to resist autocracy and a crisis which particularly affects the weakest. this is the review that the european union must make, which must rise to the occasion by changing the orientation of its neighbourhood policy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the tunisian democrats have given us an exemplary lesson in maturity at this time. that is why, with this tension we are experiencing and with the massacre taking place in egypt, we want there to be a single voice in the european union, so that we can really stop this massacre and so that these winds of freedom really mean a profound change towards democracy, also in egypt. but in the case of tunisia, we are still in time. here in parliament tomorrow we shall vote on a resolution 'there will be a delegation in the country' and our support, our democratic endorsement, is also very important at this time, especially in tunisia, then in egypt, and in all these countries which are demanding more freedom. but there is still a lot we can do, because the economic collapse that a breakthrough and a revolution of this nature implies must be as cheap as possible. there are too many enemies who want to make tunisia, for example, a different model from the one we all want. tunisia has become a model, and we are really living through the end of a postcolonial era and the beginning of its true independence. the economic situation in tunisia therefore suggests that, in addition to the aid mentioned by mrs ashton, there may be a position taken by the european central bank to ensure that an experience which may be vital for the future of the mediterranean is not lost. that decision needs to be taken with a certain degree of urgency.
madam president, the events taking place in tunisia and egypt are very important, and it is possible that these processes of change will spread to other countries in the mediterranean region, a region of great importance to the european union. it is our immediate neighbour and we have many strong ties with these friendly countries. the european union has failed to persuade its authorities to make the necessary reforms over the past decade. i myself insisted during the previous legislature that stability could no longer be an alibi for immobility, but that these countries needed profound political, economic and social reforms. now change, reform, is being demanded by citizens and from the streets. i am glad that the council finally took up these matters and adopted a position on them last monday. i share the impression that the transition process in tunisia is going in the right direction. unfortunately, the most widespread perception is that the european union has been almost completely absent from these processes in the past few weeks. we have heard several speeches by president obama, statements by secretary of state clinton, we have even heard about contacts of the tunisian army with representatives of the us army... the visibility of the union has not been comparable in any way. the new mechanisms of the lisbon treaty should have been more active and visible, including the president of the european council. mrs ashton, i welcome your trip to tunisia in two weeks' time, but i also believe that we must improve our foresight and reaction capabilities. do we want to be a major global player? well, we have to start by being relevant, at least, at the regional level.
in writing. our arguments about the importance of coal are even more relevant in the face of the instability of the mediterranean and suez. let's support our indigenous energy, which is a safe resource.
the european union's fundamental principle is democracy, and since the vast majority of the people of south sudan have democratically voted for independence, the european union must support the immediate creation of the new state. we must do this because, among other reasons, democracy is the basis for stability, security and prosperity in africa and also in the mediterranean. in this connection, i would also like to stress the international importance that the right to self-determination is acquiring as a tool in international relations; we have seen this in kosovo and now also in south sudan. the international court of justice itself has ruled that the democratic processes of independence are perfectly in line with international law. the definition of borders is returning to where it belongs: in democracy. the european union must therefore also be prepared to recognise the right to self-determination of european countries such as catalonia, scotland or flanders, which democratically decide to become independent in order to strengthen the european union itself.
mr president, we are discussing a success story, the fact that sudan has, after years of conflict, peacefully and democratically, entered into a complex process of secession in accordance with the criteria laid down by international law: the right to self-determination of those populations subjected to foreign, colonial or racist domination and of those populations who, through a security council resolution or an agreement between the parties, agree to secession. this has also been a success for the european union, which has supported and accompanied the electoral process, as it will soon do in chad or uganda. let us hope that the european union will take the lead in the international community in supporting the new state to emerge from the referendum in sudan, to solve all the outstanding problems mentioned here, from returnees to natural resources. let us hope that the european union will give them its full support.
mr president, i would like to welcome the end of the referendum in south sudan. a complex society, with ethnic and religious differences and serious economic disputes, has ended, thanks to a democratic procedure, with a conflict that cost two million dead. i would therefore like to congratulate the protagonists of the process and to acknowledge the role of the united nations, which has fulfilled its peacekeeping mission. i hope that other conflicts will follow this example and that here some states will also lose their fear of principles such as the right of individuals to decide and the exercise of the right to self-determination. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. dialogue and politics are the way to solve them; using them in time is to prevent conflict; denying what is happening and trying to overcome it without telling the truth is the surest way to end up regretting it.
mr. campbell, i'm telling you with all my heart that banana is not from the canaries. i am returning to the banana issue in this house, and i think it is a good thing that we are talking about bananas here. and it is good because it is important to reiterate the need to protect community banana producers, including the canaries. i take it that the conclusion of the geneva agreement on trade in bananas is not good news for community producers. and the resolution we are debating today has aspects which, from the agricultural point of view and from the point of view of protecting the community's banana plantations, are not entirely satisfactory either. now, i am aware that this proposal comes from the committee on international trade, which has very different criteria than i may have in some respects. that's why i value what's positive about it and not what's negative. it is good that so many years of dispute within the world trade organisation are coming to an end and that there is therefore a return of calm to a sector which most needs certainty and stability in the future. the community producers belong to the outermost regions which have enormous difficulties in producing bananas of 'very good quality, by the way' and which have nothing in common with the production of bananas in other third countries, either in terms of costs, labour, environmental or plant health guarantees or any other aspect. from an agricultural point of view, it is important to stress that the agreement is detrimental to community producers. we are facing a drastic reduction in tariffs: from 176 euros per tonne to 114 and, in the case of the agreements with colombia and peru, to 75. that is why, commissioner, with all due respect, i cannot believe that the posei financial statement for 2006 already foresaw this tariff reduction. the commissioner said that it was foreseen in connection with the geneva agreement; let us bear in mind that this tariff is 114. it could never have foreseen, in 2006, that the tariff reduction would be up to eur 75, as is envisaged after these agreements. i therefore believe that the necessary assessments should be made and it will be found that an update of the financial statement is absolutely necessary, because, among other things, the eur 176 per tonne tariff itself was already low for the commission when it was launched. the community producers are therefore not asking for anything that is not fully justified, and we have an obligation as parliament to protect them, and so does the commission.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, health is one of our outstanding subjects in the fight against poverty. in the millennium declaration we committed ourselves, first, to reducing infant mortality; second, to improving maternal health; and third, to combating aids, malaria and many other diseases, including tuberculosis. however, all of us here today know that these are the most backward objectives at the moment. we must take action, we must increase funding for health programmes in developing countries. access to free health care should be the ultimate objective of the european union in this field. i believe that global initiatives such as the vertical funds for aid to combat aids, malaria and tuberculosis should be supported, but it is also necessary, commissioner, to provide political and economic support to countries so that they can develop effective health systems. i am convinced that this would be the best way to ensure the principle of ownership and allow the most vulnerable population access to health.
madam president, i would like to share with you a great satisfaction: a major social and economic pact has recently been signed in spain between the government, trade union leaders and employers; this agreement places spain as a country capable of joining forces to overcome its difficulties, meet the challenges and strengthen the welfare state. this pact, ladies and gentlemen, is a unique example, in this global crisis, of how, from the responsibility of society as a whole, we are approaching agreements with the idea of winning the future and building a strong spain in a union that is becoming more and more prominent.
madam president, we must be ambitious in our objectives, but we must also recognize that the rapporteur's proposal is not easy to implement with the characteristics of each member state. however, we in the spanish delegation will support your proposal at this first reading. we are, however, in favour of a separate invoice for the cost of recycling and treatment of this type of waste. we shall vote against amendment no 52, which seeks to delete article 14 (1), and in favour of amendments nos 91 and 103. we believe that consumers have the right to know what this treatment costs them and should know it; this motivates them to cooperate with the legislation itself and is also good for there to be a desirable transparency in the commercial chain.
mr president, would it be possible to have a block vote on all the amendments?
i abstained because, on 14 january, the council of the union renewed the measures against côte d'ivoire in view of the seriousness of the situation following the presidential elections held at the end of last year. i have to say that these measures were taken for the people and entities who opposed the democratically elected president or did not put themselves under his authority; the entities included the autonomous ports of abidjan and san pedro and various banking entities. the aim of the initiative is to develop and promote international trade to promote development. the programme is intended for natural and legal persons. ivory coast is included in annex i to this initiative and no comments are included in annex i to the decision to which it refers. i therefore abstained. i would ask you, as president, to improve the image of this parliament too, because i understand that, from the point of view of the image and the prestige we are trying to convey, situations such as those we are experiencing today and in all the plenary sessions contribute absolutely nothing. i think it is unbearable that, while any member is speaking, there are groups laughing, who are not paying any attention to him and who could do it perfectly well out there. i ask all the speakers - today that i have this opportunity - to please improve this image of parliament, which is detrimental to european politics.
mr president, i would like to say that i believe it is in the european union's interest to establish agreements of this kind using the financial instruments for cooperation with the industrialized countries. i think that the breadth of the countries included in the annex should also be emphasized. i therefore wanted to stress the importance of this initiative.
mr president, we have voted and i have voted in favour of this initiative on electronic waste. we are talking here about collection, treatment, prohibition and illegalities, but i would like to make it clear to this house that perhaps the reflection we should be making is something that has been under study for some time: why do some materials that could have a use and an efficacy for a longer time deteriorate in a planned and planned way with a given time? i have asked the council and the commission several questions this week to see whether some companies are actually making this deliberate decision and whether the amount of electronic waste produced at european level and also at world level could be avoided by combating this type of practice.
mr president, i think that the situation in tunisia has caught the european union off guard. we have only to look at the treatment of mr ben ali in the previous months. i think we are once again too late, because the european union has not spoken out forcefully in favour of the tunisians, who have wanted to end a dictatorship that lasted for so many years and have wanted to win freedom and democracy. i therefore ask mrs ashton to involve the european union more closely, to set up the working party referred to in this resolution, with the involvement of the european parliament, so that the tunisians can hold democratic elections, can institutionalize the country and can regain their freedoms. but i want to say that this is the future of politics: the future of politics in the 21st century has to be dialogue, negotiation, to incorporate and include the aspirations of all citizens in democratic processes. and i think this is a reflection that should make us think about whether we in the european union are really treating all countries equally when we include the human rights clauses.
in writing. − at the sitting of 8 july 2010 the president announced, under rule 6(2) of the rules of procedure, that he had received a letter sent by the hungarian judicial authorities on 9 june 2010 requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of tamás deutsch. the president referred the request to the committee on legal affairs under rule 6(2). the court of the 2nd and 3rd districts of budapest asked the european parliament to waive the immunity of its member, tamás deutsch, against whom criminal proceedings are being brought in that court. tamás deutsch is accused in the proceedings pending in the budapest court of the criminal offence of defamation under section 179(2)(b-c) of the hungarian criminal code. the case against tamás deutsch is that during a radio programme ‘let's discuss it’ (megbeszéljük) broadcast on the ‘klubradio’ radio station on 25 march 2010 tamás deutsch expressed a number of allegedly untrue statements concerning the past of the accuser and considered by him to be defamatory. accordingly, the accuser brought the criminal proceedings against tamás deutsch.
in writing. − under the influence of the european parliament’s legal service, the deve, afet (droi) and inta committees have started a fight to gain co-decision rights on the strategic programming level of the financial instruments in external relations. the parliament has decided to raise the bargaining level by treating all instruments in a package approach. apart from this basic conflict, the other mid-term adaptations are consensus between the three institutions (with the exception of the ici+). as it turned out after the first reading in october 2010, negotiations on the ‘delegated acts’ are completely blocked. therefore parliament has decided: (1) to maintain a common line, i.e. to keep the package of external financial assistance instruments together (including also – so far informally – the ifs); (2) to restore with the ep’s second reading amendments the positions adopted by the ep at first reading, i.e. to adopt regarding all external financial assistance instruments the same amendments that were rejected by the council; and (3) to go for a quick second reading.
in writing. − under the influence of the european parliament’s legal service, the deve, afet (droi) and inta committees have started a fight to gain co-decision rights on the strategic programming level of the financial instruments in external relations. the parliament has decided to raise the bargaining level by treating all instruments in a package approach. apart from this basic conflict, the other mid-term adaptations are consensus between the three institutions (with the exception of the ici+). as it turned out after the first reading in october 2010, negotiations on the ‘delegated acts’ are completely blocked. therefore parliament has decided: (1) to maintain a common line, i.e. to keep the package of external financial assistance instruments together (including also – so far informally – the ifs); (2) to restore with the ep’s second reading amendments the positions adopted by the ep at first reading, i.e. to adopt regarding all external financial assistance instruments the same amendments that were rejected by the council; and (3) to go for a quick second reading.
in writing. - while i agree with the references in the resolution to the importance of banana cultivation for the eu's outermost regions, such as the canary islands, the azores and madeira, where this crop is a key sector of agriculture, and i also think it is a good thing to increase aid to banana producers in these regions, i have not supported it because, like other free trade agreements signed by the eu, it does not take into account the precarious situation of farmers in developing countries and the negative impact on the population. it also fails to mention the traceability of products and the need for the eu to require its imports to comply with labour rights and health standards similar to those in the eu, thus having a decisive influence on improving the deplorable living conditions of farmers in developing countries. in addition, contrary to what is stated in paragraph 10 of the resolution, in which it regrets ecuador's rejection of the multilateral agreements signed by the eu with peru and colombia, i welcome this position of the correa government and support its alternative initiative called the treaty for development.
in writing. these agreements reinforce the dominant position of us multinational firms, which already control more than 80% of the world market, thus going against the interests of the acp countries, the outermost regions and ecuador in particular. once again, it will be the small producers who suffer. a radical reform of international trade rules is urgently needed to remove the priority given to export-oriented products. we must urgently change the model to guarantee food sovereignty and the development of local production for all. the financial measures proposed by the european commission to support acp producers (banana support measures, mab) and the outermost regions of the european union (programme of specific options for remote and insular areas, posei) are insufficient. it would be unacceptable for these countries to pay the price of a bad global trade policy. the european union must not only commit itself to an impact study of these agreements, but above all must change its legislation accordingly to promote sustainable production.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (recast) because i am in favour of implementing measures to make progress on the sustainability of the production and consumption of electrical and electronic equipment. although this measure is in some ways a patch on the exorbitant consumption parameters on which the destructive capitalist production model and the incessant production based on the creation of false needs are based, i think it is good to encourage the reuse, recycling and recovery of this waste. i also share the need to prevent the generation of waste and to recover strategic raw materials. i have supported this resolution but i think that it should insist on the regulation of the quality of electronic and electrical equipment, banning production techniques based on planned obsolescence and encouraging the repair of such products.
in writing. − today’s vote is a welcome step to tightening up eu rules on electric waste, notably ensuring more effective collection and treatment of weee. the ep has voted to redress the low collection rates, improper treatment and illegal exports of weee to third countries. by 2016, at least 85% of the waste that is arising annually should be collected, and all of it properly treated. this is an important step forward. another important improvement is the provision to ensure that retailers will now be obliged to take back very small waste appliances, such as light bulbs or mobile phones, regardless of whether a new appliance is sold at the same time. this applies to all retailers, including distant sellers (with the exception of micro-enterprises). increasing the collection of these appliances and raising consumer awareness about this should reduce the amount of these small appliances ending up in the general waste stream and thereby escaping adequate treatment.
in writing. - i have supported the resolution on the situation in tunisia because i agree with the need to express our solidarity and support for the tunisian people and their demands for democracy and social improvements. i think it is extremely important that the ep stands firmly behind the courage and determination of the oppressed people, and in this case the tunisian people who have come out in masses to fight for an end to the tyranny imposed by the now former president ben ali. i think it is remarkable that the resolution considers the need to revise the neighbourhood policy, since, as i have denounced on numerous occasions, it is more geared to the achievement of unfair free trade agreements than to the development of peoples, human rights and the end of autocracies and social injustices. i have also supported this resolution because i share its condemnation of the repression carried out by the tunisian government during the popular demonstrations and i also agree with the demand for an independent investigation to be carried out both of this repression and of the widespread corruption practices of the ben ali government.
in writing. − with this resolution, the ep expresses its solidarity with the tunisian people, who, prompted by legitimate democratic aspirations and a desire for better social conditions and easier access to employment, have brought their country to a historic political watershed. in that connection, parliament applauds their courage and determination during the demonstrations, extends its condolences to the families of the victims and expresses its solidarity with the injured. parliament also condemns the repressive measures and the disproportionate force employed by the security forces but applauds, in contrast, the actions of the armed forces, which refused to fire on the demonstrators. it calls for an independent inquiry into the incidents leading to death and excessive use of violence during the past weeks and into corruption, and for those responsible to be brought to justice.
in writing. - while i agree with much of what is expressed in this resolution, its ultimate aim and the consideration of access to healthcare as a right whose guarantee lies with governments who 'must fulfil their obligation to provide public healthcare to the whole population', i have not been able to support it as i consider most of the proposals and objectives it sets to be unambitious and clearly insufficient. i believe that, in the face of a disease that afflicts the poorest and is one of the main causes of death, causing more than two million deaths a year, it is not enough to consider eradicating it by 2050 when, as several studies by non-governmental organizations indicate, this deadline could be reduced by half with a firm political will and the consequent increase in resources to combat it. i also agree with the importance of improving screening and vaccination procedures with more effective diagnostics and treatment, as stated in paragraph 2, but i reject the absence of any explicit mention of these being conducted by public health services which are the ones that need to be strengthened by receiving european support and cooperation.
in writing. − with this resolution, the ep firstly underlines the fact that only a vaccination programme involving a large-scale vaccination campaign could have a positive impact in terms of achieving mdg 6 after 2015, and in particular the eradication of tuberculosis by 2050. secondly, it considers vaccines to be an essential means of combating tuberculosis, together with better – reliable, low-cost and soundly based – testing, as well as more effective diagnosis and treatment, and that this implies a major shift in the focus of research and an increase in sustainable funding. thirdly, it calls on the commission to explore innovative funding channels, such as the establishment by the member states and/or the union of a financial guarantee to enable funding for the tbvi to be obtained from the european investment bank, with a view to securing finance for research in developing countries into neglected diseases and those involving little profit potential.
in writing. − it is crucial that the new authorities and their chairs carry out their functions in the interest of europe’s citizens. to this end, the greens pushed for greater transparency as regards the relations between industry representatives and the authorities and their chairs, and we are happy that all three candidates have committed in writing to ensuring this. shadowy lobbying relations will undermine the credibility and effectiveness of these authorities and it is important that they carry out their work in the utmost transparency. we must now move forward and ensure that these authorities can effectively carry out their crucial oversight role over eu financial markets.
in writing. − this whole selection procedure was an unsatisfactory mess and marks an inauspicious start for the new financial supervision authorities. the commission and council share the responsibility for this situation and it is important that lessons are learned for the next round of appointments. these new authorities must provide rigorous and effective oversight of the financial sector to avoid the mistakes of the past and it is regrettable that the status of candidates was not higher. the greens were particularly unhappy with the candidate for the chairmanship of the new insurance and pension authority, gabriel bernardino. there are real concerns that mr bernardino is not committed to providing meaningful european supervision and will be a lap dog of the national authorities. he also appears to be downplaying the potential risks the insurance sector poses to financial stability. for this reason, the greens voted to reject his candidature. it is crucial that the new authorities and their chairs carry out their functions in the interest of europe’s citizens. to this end, the greens pushed for greater transparency as regards the relations between industry representatives and the authorities and their chairs, and we are happy that all three candidates have committed in writing to ensuring this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the urgent need to find a sustainable solution that respects eu legislation, implementing a waste management plan with respect for the waste cycle hierarchy as its central axis. as a member of the committee on petitions i have dealt with numerous petitions concerning the waste crisis and the counterproductive measures employed by the italian authorities. i am glad that parliament has adopted this resolution, which is not only an important step towards solving the specific problem in italy, but also a mechanism for strengthening european legislation and avoiding similar controversies in the future. i welcome the fact that the resolution deplores the treatment of citizens who, exercising their rights, demonstrated peacefully, even resorting to violence in some cases, by the italian authorities. i also think that the request it contains for the commission to amend the necessary directives to prohibit the placing of landfills or the extension of existing ones in protected natural areas, natural parks, natura 2000 areas or areas declared world heritage by unesco is very valuable.
in writing. − a big majority of the ep agreed (1) to call for a sustainable solution to be urgently identified that meets eu criteria, namely the implementation of a waste management plan in which, in accordance with directive 2008/98/ec, respect for the waste cycle hierarchy constitutes a key basis. parliament requested the commission to keep it informed on the state of affairs, including a waste management plan, and compliance with the court decision of 4 march 2010 and eu rules. parliament also pointed out (2) that compliance with eu law on waste in campania demands a very energetic effort to diminish the volume of waste and tip the balance towards waste prevention, reduction, re-use and recycling by providing an adequate infrastructure. it noted that more emphasis must be placed on recovery of organic waste, especially in this broadly agricultural region. it recommended that the data be verified and that a system of exchange of best practice be established.
mr president, the european union is founded on values such as equality, solidarity and respect for all languages. we all share those principles. we spaniards support the idea of having a patent system for the whole of the european union, and i congratulate my colleague mr lehne on the report in this part. we support everything that improves and expands the internal market. however, for a matter of such importance, the treaty has chosen a path - enhanced cooperation - which must be a last resort and meet a number of conditions. in our view, the enhanced cooperation which we shall be voting on tomorrow is contrary to articles 118 and 326 of the treaty. moreover, i think that the rules of the game have been changed in the council, but my government will deal with that. the new treaty is an instrument of undoubted value for the union, but it cannot be used to establish a multi-speed europe. many countries which today support this enhanced cooperation will soon suffer the consequences themselves and if the council and the commission continue to use enhanced cooperation in this way, we will all lose in the end. spanish is spoken by eight hundred and fifty million people. of the three languages proposed by the european commission for the patent system, only one is comparable in importance to spanish. what criteria have been followed? the one about efficiency? is this about 1,800 euros? so we go to english alone and thus save ourselves also doing it three times, instead of twenty, and leave the other two languages. is this a temporary expediency? it was not spain that opposed the granting of a patent in the past, it was other countries that are now racing to get it. is this a political criterion, as i suspect? beware of the bureaucratic maneuvers that keep many millions of citizens - and thousands of spanish-speaking businesses - away from the reality of the european union. the system proposed by the commission is contrary to the right of citizens to express themselves in their own language, privileges some languages over others, is a clear discrimination against competition, fragment the market and creates legal uncertainty. this battle has only just begun. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the three institutions must explain the procedure followed and why the warnings were ignored. this situation can be remedied by returning to the spirit and the letter of the treaties, which spain has respected.
mr president, let's not kid ourselves. this procedure is a set-up to put french and german ahead of spanish, a language which we not only speak in europe, but which is also the language of 700 million - as lópez-istúriz white has rightly said - of the rest of the world, which is more than the number of europeans, and also ahead of italian - as has rightly been said - because italian and spanish were already recognised as languages in the registration of trademarks. the procedure is fraught with uncertainties that worry the big technology companies of digital europe (blackberry, ibm, nokia, philips, siemens), whose manifesto "despite the regrettable attempt to block a head of unit of the european commission" i hope it reaches everyone. we do not know what the sentence will be, nor what the jurisdiction and instruments will be. ladies and gentlemen, a little serenity. let us make use of the enhanced cooperation provided for in the treaty, without any mad rush to distort it and prevent its consolidation. and not the contemptible haste of this morning when the ministers of education were thrown into the council. thanks to the hungarian representative for speaking italian and spanish... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, eta has caused a great deal of pain and it must disappear once and for all. basque society rejects his crimes. the only political option that didn't condemn them was outlawed. on february 7th, they corrected their position. they have formed a new party, fulfilling the requirements of spanish law and court decisions. they have heard, therefore, what we have been demanding for decades from basque society, its institutions and its legitimate representatives, who are also working to recognize and repair the pain of the victims. but it must also be said that the exceptional criminal criteria applied in spain against eta have sometimes led to serious violations of fundamental rights. in the name of the fight against terrorism, ideologies and even the basque language have been criminalised gratuitously. i've already told you about the egunkaria newspaper case. there are other examples. they don't repeat. for these reasons, we must support the presence of the new party in the next elections in may.
mr president, along the lines of my colleague izaskun bilbao, i would like to remind this house that a few days ago the spanish government stopped the process of recognising the new basque political grouping in the register of political parties. we believe that this type of measure is far from good european practice and would not find analogues in similar cases in other european states that are part of the union. we should remember that the spanish state has been denounced on several occasions by international organizations, such as amnesty international, for the fact that torture continues to be practiced within the state. we would also like to point out that the strasbourg court has on several occasions denounced the practice of such torture or at least the fact that it is not sufficiently investigated. we would like to point out that there is a clear departure from the general principles of law when many eta prisoners are kept away from their homes and therefore we believe it is essential that the european union should be involved in the peace process.
mr president, today is also european day for sexual health. ladies and gentlemen, the figures are worrying: the world health organization estimates that more than 300 million people each year unintentionally contract a sexually transmitted disease. in europe, as the european forum on sexual health warns, the increase in the number of unwanted teenage pregnancies is worrying because of an excessive deficit of education and information among our young people, and even - as the commission points out - there are in europe different and diverse inequalities in access to sexual health services depending on the states and, within them, depending on the level of income of citizens. a european strategy is needed to combat all this. only five member states have plans in place, but in all of them the number of unwanted pregnancies, the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and the number of abortions have been reduced. a common strategy is needed to promote prevention through education, to extend information policies, to increase efforts in family planning and to facilitate access to contraceptive methods. a transversal and ambitious strategy, free of taboos, to guarantee the rights of every citizen to sexual health in the best conditions of safety and health.
mr president, at a time of great social tensions, we cannot but welcome the great social agreement in spain between the government, the trade unions and employers. this agreement is exemplary for europe, where such milestones have not been reached for some time. the reasoning of cándido méndez, one of the main protagonists of this spanish pact, who attended the meeting of the economic and social council in brussels on tuesday 8 february, should also be taken into account. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. it must be.
mr president, although the european union's fisheries association agreement with morocco has been renewed for four years, the protocol setting out fishing opportunities and compensation expires on 28 february. there is a risk that the activities of the community fleet, which is mainly engaged in artisanal fishing, will be disrupted, with a major impact on european areas and localities severely affected by the crisis, as well as the development of sustainable fisheries under the protocol and the flow of investments for the population of the area. last friday the commission asked the council to authorize the opening of negotiations for the renewal of the protocol and next monday the agriculture and fisheries council will meet. we must act very quickly. i therefore ask the council to give the commission a mandate at that meeting and to ask the commission to start talks next week to reach a new protocol with all the guarantees and to agree on a provisional extension of the activity in order to ensure its continuity for a sufficient period of one or two years to reach a final, fully satisfactory agreement.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr callanan, who has done a very good job and, most importantly, has achieved a very good result. it was not easy to reach agreement at first reading on a regulation as complex as this one. the car industry is of major importance in the european union. it is also an industry committed to the european union's goal of reducing emissions and to technological innovation. this agreement is a stable framework, which gives legal certainty to our vehicle manufacturers. i believe that the targets for reducing emissions are both ambitious and realistic. manufacturers will have to achieve 147 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2020. i am sure they will do so, and thereby contribute to the european union's target of reducing emissions by 20% by that year. but there are other interesting elements in this new regulation, such as supercredits and the promotion of alternative fuels. biofuels are clearly promoted, in line with the european union's 2020 renewable energy targets. and i stress this - which is obvious - because if the commission continues with its hesitant biofuel proposals, we will not reach the target we have set for 2020. finally, i would like to end by congratulating the epp alternative rapporteur, who has just become a mother and has done a great job, which has also helped to make this agreement come to fruition.
mr president, i also want to thank the rapporteurs, and in particular our alternative rapporteur, matthias groote, for a proposal which is a stimulus to our industry to become greener, but i am extremely sorry that we have missed a golden opportunity to introduce speed limiters, which are essential instruments to contribute to improving air quality. i should like to remind you that the directive has been compulsory for more than a month and a half, as is shown in cities such as barcelona, where a socialist city council has limited the speed limit to 80 km/h, and it has been noted, in contrast to other cities, such as madrid or valencia, with conservative town councils, where the population is at high risk of suffering from allergies and respiratory diseases. speed limits would have helped us to reduce these problems and also to improve road safety and to reduce the number of human losses. it is therefore a pity and we hope that we can achieve this in future legislative texts.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank mr cancian, who has made a great effort to reach this agreement and, after a complicated negotiation, has agreed to this document. progress has been made in passenger rights with regard to compensation and assistance in the event of an accident, as well as in the event of cancellation or delay, in the recognition of the basic rights of passengers, irrespective of distance, and in the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. but the definition of the scope, i.e. journeys of more than 250 km, leaves three countries outside this european legislation. from our point of view, this is not enough, although we recognize the progress made in relation to what was initially there. our group will therefore abstain.
madam president, i would like to point out that the vote was taken immediately in respect of the previous one and therefore i would also like to point out that i am voting against. although i could not vote, i am voting against. but i also wanted to draw the attention of the european parliament to the fact that this proposal to regulate the european patent is pending a decision by the court of justice, which is due to be given on 8 march. i therefore intended to propose to the european parliament that the vote on the european patent be postponed until the court of justice has ruled on the question of jurisdiction in the language regime. i want it on the record.
madam president, i abstained because i consider the decision to create a unitary patent through enhanced cooperation to be another failure of the council. there is agreement among only nine member states and the document itself acknowledges that the objectives cannot be achieved within a reasonable time. competitiveness? efficiency? the court of justice has not yet ruled on the question of jurisdiction in the language system. the council should have made the effort to reach a common position and perhaps worked more on the use of a single language, taking into account the number of registrations and the language used in most of them, to make us more competitive in the global reality. once again, the national view of the states has led us to a fragmented decision without clear criteria on the use of three languages. with such measures we shall never make any progress in consolidating the european project.
in writing. − parliament consents to the conclusion of the agreement, and calls for the new development-related provisions in the agreement and the new cooperation arrangements it provides for to be applied in full and, when the agreement is implemented, to be closely monitored in the light of article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i.e. in line with the union’s development cooperation objectives, of which the union must take account in all the policies that it implements which are likely to affect developing countries, the primary objective being to reduce and, in the long term, eradicate poverty.
in writing. − this proposal gives an opportunity to: strengthen the contribution of eea and efta states to the reduction of economic and social disparities in the european economic area; significantly increase the financial mechanism against unchanged concessions for iceland and modestly increase the concessions for norway. i therefore suggested that the committee on fisheries give a favourable opinion on the commission's proposal com(2010)234.
in writing. − the horizontal agreement with brazil will restore a sound legal basis for the eu’s aviation relations with brazil. this has been an important first step in strengthening eu-brazil aviation relations which has allowed brazil and the eu to further enhance aviation cooperation and move towards negotiating a comprehensive air services agreement between brazil and the eu. upon a request from the european commission, on 15 october 2010 the eu transport council granted a mandate to the european commission to negotiate a comprehensive air services agreement with brazil based on a combination of gradual market opening and regulatory cooperation and convergence. such an agreement is expected to be able to generate a consumer surplus (benefits in terms of lower fares) of up to eur 460 million. it will have a positive employment effect and is expected to offer significant new business opportunities for eu airlines as well as benefits to the travelling public.
in writing. − in line with our position during the vote in the libe committee (the lead committee), we in the verts/ale group decided to vote against this proposal.
in writing. − in 2007, parliament was asked to give its opinion regarding the conclusion of this protocol for the first time. following a request from the rapporteur at that time, ms klamt, the legal affairs committee issued a unanimous opinion, on 11 june 2007, recommending that the legal basis should be changed so as to refer to the second subparagraph of article 300(3) of the ec treaty (the proposals for council decisions set out to modify the ‘specific institutional framework’ provided for in the main agreement, of which the proposed protocol forms an integral part), which requires the assent and not merely consultation of the european parliament. for that reason, and with the imminent entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, this report was referred back to the libe committee.
in writing. − although the rapporteur welcomes the renewed referral to parliament of the draft council decision and thus the continuation of the negotiations on the association of liechtenstein with the dublin agreement with switzerland, and calls for the consent of parliament, the verts/ale group decided not to follow that advice. we therefore voted against the proposal, as we did in the libe committee.
in writing. − the present eu-brazil agreement gives a reciprocal visa waiver for travel for the purpose of tourism and business, as defined in the agreement, for all brazilian and eu citizens, including the nationals of the four member states not enjoying visa-free travel to brazil at present. the agreement does not replace but supplements existing bilateral agreements between several eu member states and brazil, and which cover travel for purposes other than tourism and business (e.g. students and researchers). the category of persons travelling for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity is also excluded from the scope of this agreement. in order to safeguard equal treatment of all eu citizens, a provision has been included in the agreement stating that brazil may suspend or terminate it only in respect of all the eu member states. reciprocally, the union may also suspend or terminate the agreement only in respect of all its member states.
in writing. − the visa waiver covers the holders of diplomatic, service or official passports that are travelling for purposes of tourism or business the citizens of the contracting parties may stay in each other’s territory for a maximum period of three months during a six-month period following the date of first entry into the territory of the other contracting party. the visa exemption for travel purposes other than those stipulated in the agreement can still be realised under the provisions of bilateral agreements signed by brazil with 23 of the 27 member states. the agreement takes into account the situation of member states that do not fully apply yet the schengen acquis. as long as these member states (cyprus, bulgaria and romania) are not part of the schengen area, the visa waiver confers a right on citizens of brazil to stay for three months on the territory of each of those member states independently of the period calculated for the whole schengen area.
in writing. − we finally voted against the text because, regarding services of general interest, the report considers that the majority of member states did not encounter any significant problems. although this wording waters down a bit the initial proposal by the epp shadow (handzlik, poland) according to which there has been no problem at all, this still tends to ignore the uncertainties created by the directive regarding in particular the social services to be included or excluded in its scope. furthermore, the report maintains enthusiastic expectations regarding the impact on employment, whereas there has been no impact assessment at all from the commission, and some national impact assessments indicate very low quantitative impact figures in terms of job creation; there are no impact figures regarding job losses; furthermore there is nothing regarding the impact on the quality of jobs, not to speak about the pressure on the level of labour standards created by some ecj case law after the adoption of the directive.
in writing. − the council, under the belgian presidency, weakened considerably parliament’s position as adopted at first and second reading. the scope of the regulation is fixed as services for a minimum distance of 250 km, i.e. most bus services will not be included. there is also the formulation on reimbursement in case of delay (at least 2 hours, with half of the ticket price to be reimbursed – compare rail transport with reimbursement from 1 hour’s delay). finally the rights for prms are narrowed and weakened and barrier-free access to bus services is not guaranteed. in consequence, we voted against.
in writing. − despite voting against the report in committee (32/25/0) the greens/efa agreed with the other groups that negotiations for first-reading agreement with the council should be sought, mainly due to an assessment that political majorities are not likely to improve at plenary and negotiations with the forthcoming hungarian and polish presidencies would be unlikely to yield a better result. the main content of the first-reading agreement was: delaying the binding 175g co2/km average limit by one year (2017); lowering the 2020 target to 147g/km, requiring to be confirmed by legislative procedure; lowering excess emissions premium to eur 95/g; and a slight increase and prolongation of supercredits until 2017. however, the final outcome in plenary was highly unsatisfactory, and we decided to vote against.
in writing. − our group cannot agree to give its consent and to initiate a procedure because, in the words of the advocates general of the court of justice: ‘as it stands at present, the envisaged agreement creating a unified patent litigation system is incompatible with the treaties’. our group has asked for the postponement of the vote as the court decision on the above opinion of the advocates general is due already on 8 march and parliament should be fully aware of the legal consequences of the ‘enhanced cooperation’ before embarking on such an exceptional project. the other political groups have not supported our request for postponement. the consent does not concern specific measures implementing enhanced cooperation. such proposals will be submitted at a later stage, if enhanced cooperation is authorised (i.e. council regulations creating unitary patent protection and translation arrangements for the unitary patent).
in writing. − the radioactive contamination of food is clearly a concern for european public health and, as such, it is essential that this legislation is decided on that basis, with the european parliament as a co-legislator. as the proposal stands, however, it clearly falls short of what is required to protect the european public, particularly children, from radioactive contamination through foodstuffs. the maximum levels of radioactive contamination being proposed are far too high according to expert analysis - some of them are even higher than those in place when the chernobyl disaster occurred. the proposed levels would imply that the public be exposed to radiation at levels higher than the maximum limits set out in existing eu legislation on safety standards for ionising radiation. this would expose the european public, notably vulnerable groups and children, to unnecessary risk from contamination and cancer. it is simply not acceptable that this legislative revision would fail to ensure europe's citizens have total protection from radioactive contaminated food.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the afghan citizen referred to in the judgment of the court of human rights was not an immigrant, an abuser or a victim of human trafficking. and it wasn't even in accordance with the geneva convention because it wasn't persecuted. he was an asylum seeker, he would have had subsidiary protection and international protection. so the verdict is important because of the precedent it sets. how many of them can be held pending sentencing after having appealed against asylum denials, or how many can claim compensation for delays in the proceedings? what if there were more than a thousand judgments of the court of human rights against member states? what would happen to our european reputation? can we still consider ourselves champions of fundamental rights if we treat asylum seekers fleeing wars worse than if they were criminals? commissioner, applicants can be in detention centres awaiting the procedure - if they are refugees, if they are subject to subsidiary protection - for up to seven months, without any procedural rights. is this human? the asylum package has been stuck for too long and the common asylum system, mr weber, does not exist. not all member states have the same procedures. and there is a lack of solidarity, which is what causes the situation we are living in. the afghan citizen has been compensated for moral damage, not by the dublin regulation, but how much moral damage can those who appeal claim because they flee wars and spend years in camps back and forth? we're sick of talking about abuse and drug dealers. don't we want to look the other way and deny a reality we want to deny over and over again? dublin is perfectible, yes, but it's got to go much further. it is urgent, madam commissioner.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i think that we are a large majority of the members of this european parliament who welcome democratic movements in the mediterranean countries as a challenge to european foreign policy and its commitment to values, but also those who know that these movements are not harmless. they have humanitarian effects and impact on the migratory pressure in the border countries. so it is time to remember that lisbon is in force and that articles 67, 77, 78 (3) and 80, as just mentioned, indicate that solidarity and shared responsibility make this a european challenge. not just shared, but common, and therefore affecting the european institutions. and it's time to say that no country is alone. that this is not a question of italy in lampedusa, or malta, or greece, or spain. no, it is a matter for the european institutions. but it is also time to say that we are not talking about frontex - an operational agency - or easo, but about the level of political decision-making, which requires remembering that the necessary resources must be invested in development cooperation and in assisting the needs of those countries in the establishment and consolidation of democracy. but also in assisting the member states of the european union in the challenge of primary care in the face of immigration and in the challenge of managing the common border. so this is the moment to say that lisbon has a whole programme to develop and that the european parliament will be there to support it in the development of this challenge that we have before us.
mr president, while maintaining the distances between terrorism and immigration, i have noted that the european union unfortunately moves in response to emergency situations, such as a serious attack or a mass landing of immigrants, such as the one currently taking place in lampedusa, where the exodus of tunisian citizens to italian shores can lead to a chronicle of a death foretold. the journey of hope can end up becoming a cursed journey and will weigh on our consciences, on those of all those who witness these continuous uncontrolled flows and do not say "enough!" with enough authority. when it happens, we'll put our hands on our heads, but the next day, we'll forget. the citizens of europe have the obligation and the right to know the truth: that the mediterranean strategy is not working, that the common immigration policy will remain a dream as long as european countries do not commit themselves to sufficient financial means to make frontex effective. it costs nothing to talk, but you have to act. do you really believe that frontex can guarantee the security of europe's borders today? i don't think he is. and let us hope that the citizens of egypt, tunisia and other maghreb countries will not decide en masse to seek a better future in europe but will do so in their own countries, because that is what they have fought for, and we must help them. solidarity and responsibility, but above all truth, are needed more than ever today when it comes to talking about a common european immigration policy.
mr president, i wanted to ask you something, commissioner, since there is a certain hysteria in the air this afternoon. i wanted to ask you if you could tell me if those 5,000 who have arrived in lampedusa are really terrorists. could we check it out? it wouldn't be that hard. it wouldn't be that hard, since we have enough security services to know if that's true. five thousand, please. we talk about terrorists, but there are thousands of them who arrive in their slippers. i would like to ask you: would it not be easier for you to make a humanitarian visit to lampedusa and try to assess and see in situ the resources that mr rinaldi mentions and which have not been used in italy? that might be a good visit, too. and it would also be good if he went to tunisia, because perhaps those who have arrived in lampedusa have come from the interior, from the mining areas, where ben ali's corruption has left its inhabitants in misery. we could help them in the framework of regional development. perhaps then he will see the change and the challenge that is being experienced there today, in tunisia, and he could follow up the situation and be its guarantor in the commission.
madam president, it has already been said that the backbone of pension systems in europe is, and must remain, the public system, because it is the only system which guarantees cohesion and, moreover, reduces the risks of poverty in our society. it is striking that in oecd countries the highest rates of income equity for citizens are in the area of pensions, or that, due to the crisis, private pensions lost 20% of their value in 2008 alone and that they are still far from the required solvency levels. all this shows that, at a time of unavoidable reforms, the sustainability of our pension systems must be achieved in a transversal way, taking into account, among other factors, ambitious policies on births or on labour market reconciliation, equally ambitious policies on access to and retention in employment, or even immigration policies based on integration, which also guarantee, from a demographic point of view, the sustainability of our pensions. finally, i regret that the text does not set limits on the abuse of the figure of grants in companies, since, as a general rule, they are excluded from all types of social contributions. i believe that this is essential for a whole new generation of workers, who, if they are being asked to do more to get a decent pension, would also have to do less to get a decent job.
madam president, the pension system is a basic element of the european social model, which must be preserved. it is a state competence, but to ensure its survival, measures must be taken, with the highest level of agreement with social partners and civil society, focusing on defining a european standard that guarantees the solvency of all systems, subjecting them to the supervision criteria, in order to limit the deficit of public finances of all member states, and extending the guarantees that will be required from insurance companies from 2013 to mutual societies that manage these systems in some member states. a standard that rationalizes the debate, because solving this problem is more than fixing, by law, the age of retirement. the length of the person's working life and their contribution levels must be taken into account, and factors linked to the will of the pensioners must be incorporated. the extension of working life should lead to an improvement in pensions. and a standard that looks to the future. the mobility of workers will require that the transfer of passive rights from one country to another should not be a problem. citizens should be able to access their employment history when they change their place of residence in all the member states where they have paid contributions. and i think we need to pay special attention to gender and disability.
madam president, there is one question, and one question only: what can we do at european level to give work to those who do not have it? to answer that question, i want to make clear a first consensus: there is no sustainable growth without macroeconomic stability. some of the shortcuts that have been proposed here, especially from the leftist seats, would be bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. second consensus: europe 2020 is a compendium of good intentions, it is good music, but we must move from the muses to the theatre. what are we gonna do? how are we going to finance the initiatives and actions proposed there? is the literary ambition of strategy 2020 compatible with the budget cuts we are being told about? third consensus: to set in motion a path of stable growth, a complete picture is needed. and now there's no such drawing. what is happening at ecofin these days shows that there are a lot of ideas that are scattered, incoherent and inconsistent with each other. and there are three important actions. firstly, we cannot continue to suffocate the countries in difficulty, and that is solved by a joint issue of european bonds. secondly, we must put into effect the specific bonds which are in the monti report but which are not in the economic strategy. and thirdly, we must get rid of the european investment bank, of which two thirds of the resources are the commission's, and which, if multiplied by four in ten years, would amount to the same amount of money as the marshall plan had for the reconstruction of the european economy.
madam president, in the run-up to 2020 and beyond, the real systemic risk facing the european union is that of losing the capacity to compete in the face of the existence of large economic sectors, which are becoming more and more technological and powerful. competition is what we need: competition for growth, growth for job creation, job creation and growth for protecting and securing our social model. the only essential raw material we have is knowledge, and we must harness that knowledge to innovate, to adapt to change and, above all, to lead that change. that's why we need to invest a lot more in universities, in our education system and in our research and development to be a powerhouse in what we can be: knowledge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/83/ec on the prevention of the entry into the legal supply chain of medicinal products falsified as to their identity, history or origin, as i consider that it positively strengthens the measures against the falsification of medicinal products and their distribution and thus improves the protection of citizens. i also think it is very positive that the ep's position reinforces transparency and the right to information as a way of preventing this illegal activity. i think it is important that it focuses on improving preventive measures concerning the supply of counterfeit medicines via the internet. i support the strengthening of the legal fight against the distribution of such medicines via the internet, since most cases of counterfeit medicines entering the european market are done via this route. i voted in favour of the text because the amendments considerably improve the text presented by the commission, since they strengthen control measures, increase transparency, improve access to information and therefore allow for greater protection of citizens.
in writing. − to be able to better safeguard the distribution network for medicinal products it is crucial to have clear definitions not only of the scope, but also of the different actors in the supply chain. what is a falsified medicinal product? what is an active ingredient or an excipient? the commission proposal does not provide the required clarity. the same applies for the definitions of the different actors in the chain of supply, clarifying their roles and responsibilities. it is essential to make a distinction between those actors who are already formally recognized - and which role is considered liable - and those who are outside that category, although being relevant to the liability of the distribution chain. therefore it is important to make the distinction between traders and brokers, as well as to clarify their roles and responsibilities. the same applies for other actors, such as transporters or parallel traders. the directive should prevent confusion and should not allow any room for 'grey' areas. it should clearly identify which actors are able to operate in this domain and under which conditions. clearer definitions will result in simpler implementation.
in writing. − the european parliament notes that a large number of smes will continue to depend mainly on credits and loans when it comes to external financing; it is concerned that an increasingly capital- and risk- sensitive banking sector is asking for more collateral and higher risk premiums, both requirements resulting in insufficient financing and missed business and employment opportunities in this very large sector of the economy; it regards, therefore, the availability of credit and loan guarantee schemes as crucial to exploiting the growth and job potential offered by smes; it sees a need to leverage existing programmes at national and eu level and it endorses the important role played by eib sme loans.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i consider it an unacceptable attack on workers' rights, by advocating the increase in contribution years, the delay in the retirement age and the progressive privatisation of public pension systems. i believe that these types of measures are aimed at establishing pension systems that benefit the interests of the financial sector and do not represent a step towards more fair, sustainable, secure and beneficial public pension systems for european citizens. i am therefore opposed to the progressive construction of an antisocial europe, ruled by the markets and the financial powers, which, having plunged us into this crisis through their ambition and excessive greed, are incomprehensibly rewarded by the privatisation of the public pension systems. i also find it unacceptable that the resolution, while stressing the importance of giving a relevant role to social dialogue in pension reforms, defends anti-social measures, such as the delay in the retirement age, which have been rejected by the majority of europeans in massive general strikes.
in writing. - although the vote allowed some crucial elements from the social point of view to be incorporated, there were some unfortunate aspects which led me to abstain in the final vote. this is the case, for example, of the part of paragraph 21 where member states are asked to improve citizens' access to private savings schemes.
in writing. - while i welcome croatia's accession to the eu, as long as the croatian people consider it appropriate, i have not supported this resolution because there are several points i reject, especially those relating to the eu's economic requirements. i believe that your call for the croatian authorities to take measures to formalise and increase the involvement of civil society actors in the policy-making process and in the monitoring of the activities of public authorities is timely and valuable. but i cannot support the resolution because i am totally against the neoliberal economic approach it contains and the measures it calls for to be implemented in this field. i therefore consider it unacceptable that the eu should demand from the croatian government that the redistributive role of the state and public spending be reduced, and i reject its call for 'cost-effectiveness' to be the main criterion for assessing public health and social systems.
in writing. − with this resolution, the european parliament commends croatia for the substantial progress achieved in attaining the benchmarks necessary for the conclusion of the accession negotiations; it asks croatia to pursue resolutely the necessary reforms in order to be able to attain the final benchmarks and to conclude the negotiations; and it calls on the commission to use all its capacities to support croatia's efforts to attain the benchmarks.
member of the commission. − madam president, it is my pleasure to be here with you today. as you are certainly aware, the high representative and vice-president of the commission is visiting the southern mediterranean at the moment and has asked me to address you on her behalf on the events in egypt. the political reality of egypt changed spectacularly last friday when president mubarak stepped down after 30 years in office. his departure has opened the way to the possible transformation of egypt. let me repeat this in front of this house: the european union salutes the courage of the egyptian people who have pursued their struggle for democratic change peacefully and with dignity. a great responsibility now rests on the shoulders of the supreme military council to guide egypt towards the democratic future for which its people have striven. we have taken good note of the commitments to revise the constitution, to hold parliamentary and presidential elections, to honour international treaties and obligations and to limit military rule to six months. there are already reports on the first steps taken. the proposal for a constitutional amendment should be delivered within ten days and submitted to popular vote within two months. we will closely watch the steps that are taken and we hope they will pave the way towards democratic, free and fair elections later in the year. the european union responded to the events in egypt as soon as the public protests escalated. we repeatedly called on the egyptian authorities to ensure an immediate transition and to respond to the democratic ambitions of the people. the high representative contacted directly the egyptian vice-president omar suleiman when concerns of rising violence or human rights abuses arose. the european union immediately expressed its readiness to lend full support to egypt’s transition process towards democracy. the european council asked the high representative to develop a package of measures supporting the transformation process in egypt and tunisia. she was also asked, together with the commission, to adapt european union instruments to stimulate the transition and the country’s economic and social development. we have started work on how we can best support egypt and we are aiming at the kind of joined-up foreign policy response that the lisbon treaty allows. in doing so, we are listening to all voices, including those of the members of this house. you have a crucial contribution to make as democratically elected representatives and also as an arm of the budgetary authority. the high representative and i will also report on this process to the foreign affairs council in a few days’ time. i would like to add at this point that high representative ashton has convened a special session of the foreign affairs council for this sunday. in egypt, as in tunisia, the european union is unequivocally supportive of the transformation process that has started. there is, however, an important difference. in the case of tunisia, the political situation has become a little clearer. we have managed to establish a dialogue with the transitional government on the needs of the country and the possible european union response. the high representative has been in close contact throughout with international leaders to discuss the challenges facing the region and to ensure a coordinated and, therefore, strong international response. we will first seek to adjust our ongoing programmes to support the aspirations of the egyptian people for reforms as and when matters clarify. the european union already has a wide portfolio of programmes in place in egypt and spends close to eur 150 million a year there. for several years, we have been financing projects on democratic reforms, good governance and respect for human rights. eur 40 million were allocated to this objective in 2007-2010 and eur 50 million are planned for 2011-2013. we also have more funds mobilised, in particular for civil society, through the european instrument for democracy and human rights. the new situation in egypt should create the right environment to put these funds to maximum use and push forward the implementation of much more ambitious programmes than was possible in the past. beyond the existing programmes and funds, we intend to listen to the egyptians and hear where they consider the country needs our support most. their demands, in terms of democracy, social and economic perspectives and free, fair and inclusive elections, must be met. the european union stands ready to support this reform process based on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the egyptian authorities have already approached us with initial requests, including on dealing with suspicions of the misappropriation of public funds. we are coordinating with member states on this and the foreign affairs council is expected to address this issue. as and when other requests come, we will do our utmost to be responsive and mobilise our expertise on democratisation, elections, human rights, economic and social reforms, as well as any other issues where egyptians may see a need. however, let me be clear. it is not for us to dictate outcomes or impose solutions. the future lies firmly in the hands of the people of egypt. i mentioned at the beginning that the high representative and vice-president is travelling in the region as we speak. she was willing to visit egypt as part of her trip and she expressed that will to her egyptian counterparts. she has now been invited to cairo by the egyptian authorities and will travel there on monday evening, after the foreign affairs council. this will be an opportunity for her to listen to the egyptians and to assess the priority needs of the country on the road to democracy.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mubarak has disappeared from the scene and everyone seems to breathe a sigh of relief. firstly, the people of egypt, whose legitimate expectations of greater dignity and democracy have been met, and secondly, the international community, which has, not without a certain cynicism, gone from being yesterday's ally to being today's obstacle and perhaps tomorrow's accused. but, madam president, i do not think we should deceive ourselves. the departure of mubarak and ben ali is a necessary but not sufficient condition for the democratic transition process, which is still subject to many uncertainties. and, most importantly, to consolidate democracy. it is also clear, madam president, that while democratic freedoms and human rights can be won by 17 days of demonstration and civic courage, and proclaimed by decree overnight, economic and social progress unfortunately cannot be mobilized in the same way. and we have seen it in the economic losses that both egypt and tunisia have been suffering in recent days. i would like to return to the commissioner's speech and say that after initial hesitations and some problems with the image of the european union, things seem to be getting on track. mrs ashton is in the region and what mr füle is proposing makes perfect sense. firstly, to support firmly and decisively the process of democratic transition and political reform in these countries. and secondly, to undertake a critical review of the european neighbourhood policy by strengthening the democratic clause in a greater way. we have heard today in the enlarged bureau the minister for foreign affairs of poland, the next president of the union, and his initiative to create a polish foundation for democracy and human rights, which could also be extended to the whole of the european union. madam president, the european union has mobilized considerable resources in its euro-mediterranean policy with meagre results. the image of the european union has been damaged in this conflict even more than that of other international actors. however, the demand from the european union remains intact. i would like to say, madam president, that this is a good opportunity to stress that the european union understands once and for all that today history is being combined with the present and that in this historical present in which we have to live we must play as a global actor and do the necessary duties, or we will have to resign ourselves, madam president, to not playing on the international scene in accordance with the role we want to maintain and we will have to limit ourselves, as we have done so far, to paying the bill for the great planetary problems.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr füle, the european union has a very serious problem with its neighbourhood policy which must be corrected. we have gone from the necessary protection with the mubarak and ben ali regimes, from that collaboration - a necessary collaboration with these dictatorships - to now trying to go to the denunciation and trying to fall into a certain protection of the revolutionary process that has been given by civil society, which wants changes and the rule of law. the two revolutions, the tunisian and the egyptian, have something in common and that is that the protagonists are very young, the political organizations have practically played no role - the trade unions themselves - and the two revolutions are calling for a social and legal state, where religion has nothing to do, something that we should celebrate widely. but we have had this problem of lack of credibility of this neighbourhood policy. we cannot go from being necessary collaborators with two dictatorships one day to condemning them the next and trying to protect the constitutional reforms, the constitutional reforms that are going to be carried out in egypt. we, mr füle, do not understand how article 2 of the association agreements has never been applied. clause 2 has never been applied. not in egypt, not in tunisia, not in morocco, not in israel. i never will. and it is a clause that is conditional on the association agreements, but it has never been applied. and that clause is very clear: countries that sign association agreements with the european union have to respect international law and human rights. it has never been put into practice, it has never been activated. and so we do not share that philosophy: more concerned with free trade than with human rights throughout the mediterranean. this is what needs to change, mr. füle.
mr president, in egypt the plans of the supreme military council must be clarified further. a specific commitment is the holding of democratic elections within six months, following a constitutional reform carried out by experts. but i also read that 'according to the british foreign secretary' there will be a new government next week which will include representatives of the opposition. i think we all agree, in any case, that it is desirable to have a transitional process, supported by the widest possible political consensus, until the elections are held. the social forces should also work together to ensure that the transition proceeds without major tensions. ladies and gentlemen, we in the european union must accompany the democratic process and contribute to its success. egypt is a key country, and what happens there will have repercussions in the mediterranean and the entire arab world. i therefore welcome mrs ashton's departure for cairo next week. one more thought: the tunisians and the egyptians have given us a lesson about the desire of the peoples for freedom. i hope that this lesson will not be forgotten by the foreign ministers when they assess the common position on cuba, which rightly seeks a democratic transition for the island and which defends the defenders of freedom.
mr president, this is also a voice to applaud mrs ashton for having been in tunisia and returning to egypt next week. what can europe do, as the previous speaker has said? it is very important to give this clear signal of support at this time to these countries. europe is the natural ally of the mediterranean countries, because of its proximity and its history. this is the moment to tell them how much we care, the copernican turn they are making in the neighbourhood policy and how much hope this new mediterranean raises that the young egyptians and tunisians have lit up to our surprise and disbelief. let us now follow this transformation, as other speakers have said. let us support it above all by dismantling the repressive apparatus - because the dictatorship continues, even if the dictator has left - by lifting the state of emergency and supporting the democrats so that this process can truly be the hour of europe, so that democracy can be truly consolidated and a new partnership can be inaugurated. the need to adapt the instruments is not a new concept. it's just that one page has been deleted and we're starting a new one.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the council, let me start with the obvious, but sometimes it is necessary to repeat the obvious: that the free circulation of news and independent opinions is the most important safeguard in a democratic society. this is the reason we are here today. if the concern expressed at the time by the osce, the council of europe, several member states and a large majority of members of this parliament has been so insistent, it is because the very roots of our european project were at stake. we felt at the time that this hungarian law, which was adopted in haste by mr orbán's government, was not accompanied by sufficient reflection and had to be amended to conform both to european regulation and to the fundamental spirit expressed in the treaties. we are grateful and pleased to see and hear the commissioner today, who tells us that the hungarian government is prepared to amend the law, but the creation of an information control authority, whose board would be politically controlled only by members of the governing party, runs the risk of exercising a biased and centralised political control which would inevitably force censorship and, what is worse, self-censorship. and the question is, are they going to amend this authority? we have shared with you, madam commissioner, and with the commission, our concern about information pluralism, the principle of proportionality and the fundamental rights of freedom of expression and information set out in article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights, but the responses offered by the hungarian government in agreeing to amend that law must be monitored to ensure that the changes address sufficiently deeply the threats to the fundamental values and rights that these laws pose. for example, what i just said about the authority. we insist that the commission continue its investigations, especially on the issues affecting fundamental rights. and, pardon me, ladies and gentlemen of the council and commissioner, this is not a political problem, as some would have us believe. this is a matter of defending the values of our european union and respect for the laws of the european union. do not doubt, this and no other is our commitment and our work here.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner de gucht, when i began my first term in the european parliament, one of the first issues i heard about was the free trade agreement with korea. there was unanimity among some sectors of european industry, especially the automobile industry, against this agreement. as a navarrese and a spaniard, where the car industry represents a high component of our economy, i felt obliged to get involved in trying to improve, not the agreement, because it was not possible, but the safeguard clause, which was where parliament could make improvements. so the objective was twofold. on the one hand, to protect industry and protect its jobs and, on the other, to make the agreement more attractive to industry, especially the car industry, so that they would not only not reject it, but would even support it. and i think we can say here today, "mission accomplished". and all thanks to the work, the effort and the good work of this parliament. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the two rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. thank you, robert, and thank you for your words. the work of the other members of the international trade commission, headed by its president, vital moreira, should also be recognised. thank you very much, vital. i would also like to highlight and thank the great work done by the belgian presidency of the european union. their efforts have paid off and in december we finally reached an agreement. finally, i would like to highlight and thank the work of the european commission, especially that of ignacio bercero. tomorrow we shall vote in favour of a clause which is more effective, more easily applicable and which will really protect european industry. today, the concerns that existed about the korean free trade agreement have been greatly reduced, or we can even say that they have practically disappeared. today, the opportunities of this agreement clearly outweigh the uncertainties. the european parliament should be proud of the work it has done.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr ivailo kalfin, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under loans and guarantees for projects outside the european union (com (2010) 0174 - c7-0110/2010 - 2010/0101 (cod)) (a7-0019/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on - the oral question to the commission on the review of the framework for the commission's transparency and balanced composition expert groups, by cornelis de jong, on behalf of the gue/ngl, michael cashman, on behalf of the s&d group, pascal canfin, on behalf of the greens/efa group, and monica luisa macovei (o-000009/2011 - b7-0010/2011), and - the oral question to the commission on the review of the framework for the commission's transparency and balanced composition expert groups, by corinne lepage, diana wallis and frédérique ries, on behalf of the alde group (o-000035/2011 - b7-0014/2011).
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, it really warms my heart to listen to this discussion. in fact, it would be good to have some kind of memo about the history of this issue. the commission takes note of all these good ideas and advice on how to increase transparency. i should point out that in 2005 we launched a transparency initiative which included the question of expert groups. this was very largely my brainchild, as mr hans-peter martin has just recalled. there have, of course, been huge changes in relation to this question, with all the websites and information now available. but you should never regard the experts as some kind of decision-makers. they are not decision-makers and they clash with each other. it is the same issue as has just been raised in relation to genetically modified organisms. one knows that it is not just industry that is concerned. there are different groups of experts. in the last months of the last commission i also had responsibility for security, so all information about demonstrations came to my desk. one of the last huge demonstrations was against the abolition of subsidies for tobacco producers. so there are different views, but we are the decision-makers: the commissioners and members of parliament and our institutions. agencies also make decisions, as do the council and the member state governments. experts are not the decision-makers. there is no arithmetical link. yes, i am in favour of greater transparency. it is clear that some very high-level expert groups were set up only to quietly disappear because they were not able to give any advice as they held such contradictory views. so let us work with this transparency register, which i also consider to be a great achievement, because experts and advisers are everywhere. no politician survives without advisers. political groups have advisers and are approached by different interests, and finally it is for political decision-makers to take one stand or another. there will always be subjects where the experts will say that now you must take this or that position. this is a matter for the political decision-makers: commissioners, parliamentarians, political groups, in accordance with the democratic system. there is also the question of the composition of the expert groups. many issues have been raised about composition. who should assess whether their composition is balanced or not? the composition of the expert groups is determined by specific cases. some people may mistakenly want to enter these expert groups to be part of the decision-making process, but expert groups are not decision-makers. back in 2005, as some of us remember, there really was an element of opacity and the commission, together with parliament, has introduced substantial changes in this regard. by this i mean the transparency register, which registers representatives of interest groups. this applies to lobbyists at parliament and the commission, and a lot of information is now available to assess how great their influence is and the composition of the expert groups. let us develop our response in this issue, but let us also not underestimate the efforts which have been made so far.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 11.45 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
in writing. - i believe that this bilateral safeguard clause in the eu-korea free trade agreement is insufficient and will not be effective in dealing with the harmful and dramatic consequences of the signing of the free trade agreement. various economic sectors, such as textiles and agriculture, will be seriously affected by this agreement, and the very need to include this clause proves this. i have therefore not been able to support this instrument because, even if i consider that it can mitigate a small part of the negative consequences of the signing of the free trade agreement, which i oppose, i consider it insufficient and ineffective.
in writing. − we seriously regret that meps have unquestioningly approved this problematic trade agreement. the far-reaching eu-korea fta sets a dangerous precedent for future eu trade policy, going far beyond mere tariff elimination to include sweeping market access provisions at the expense of social and environmental standards. among the more odious provisions of the agreement, the eu succeeded in pushing korea to massage its rules on co2 emissions from vehicles in order to allow european car makers to export more big gas-guzzling cars to korea. this arm-twisting by the eu, which has undermined the environmental integrity of korea’s vehicle emissions rules, is nothing short of scandalous. worse, the eu is trying to spin this environmental loophole as allowing europe’s car industry laggards to ‘compete fairly’ in the korean market with smaller, cleaner and more efficient korean cars.
in writing. − article 208 of the lisbon treaty states that the eu must ‘take account of the objectives of development cooperation in the policies that it implements which are likely to affect developing countries’. this is a commitment from the eu to avoid policy choices that undermine its salutary work in the field of development cooperation and, indeed, to pursue actions, across the policy spectrum, that will benefit developing countries. this applies to all eu institutions, including the eib. the vast majority of eligible countries under the eib’s external mandate are developing countries. consequently, it is fundamental that the underlying objectives of the eib’s external mandate should explicitly target poverty reduction. in addition, the eib must align its external activities with the european consensus on development.
in writing. - i reject and regret the establishment of an eu-korea free trade agreement as i consider that, as one of the largest trade agreements signed by the eu in recent years, it deepens the negative consequences of global trade liberalisation, serving the multi-billion dollar interests of the large european transnational corporations without taking into account the serious economic, social, labour and environmental consequences of its approval under the terms presented. the rapporteur acknowledges that this agreement will inevitably destroy many jobs in europe in economic sectors which are very sensitive for thousands of workers and are of a strategic nature, such as agriculture and the textile industry. this agreement represents a further setback in the need to move towards food sovereignty and security, which requires the eu's strong promotion and commitment to local agricultural markets and products, and forces european farmers to compete with agricultural imports whose production has not been subject to respect for the most basic workers' rights or to compliance with minimum health and quality requirements.
in writing. − we seriously regret that meps have unquestioningly approved this problematic trade agreement. the far-reaching eu-korea fta sets a dangerous precedent for future eu trade policy, going far beyond mere tariff elimination to include sweeping market access provisions at the expense of social and environmental standards. among the more odious provisions of the agreement, the eu succeeded in pushing korea to massage its rules on co2 emissions from vehicles in order to allow european car makers to export more big gas-guzzling cars to korea. this arm-twisting by the eu, which has undermined the environmental integrity of korea’s vehicle emissions rules, is nothing short of scandalous. worse, the eu is trying to spin this environmental loophole as allowing europe’s car industry laggards to ‘compete fairly’ in the korean market with smaller, cleaner and more efficient korean cars.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution to show my unconditional support for the peoples who are fighting for their rights, in this particular case, the egyptian people in their struggle against authoritarianism and the deplorable political, social and economic conditions to which the mubarak-led regime has condemned them over the last 30 years. i also strongly condemn the violence and use of force against peaceful demonstrators. despite my support, i do not share much of the resolution, as i regret the interventionist attitude of the european union and its desire to protect the transition to democracy. i believe that the egyptian people alone are responsible for defining their future and that they should be able to do so without the intrusion of external actors who, in many cases, are only seeking to defend privileges obtained with and by the support of the illegitimate authoritarian regime. i also regret that the resolution does not contain a clear and forceful self-criticism of the european union, which, with its current neighbourhood and trade policy, has enabled and supported the mubarak regime in recent years.
in writing. today, it is clear that everyone recognizes that mubarak was a dictator, whereas only a month ago, even in the european parliament, few voices were raised to affirm this evidence. it is therefore essential that the european commission and the council question the realpolitik they have been practising for years in these parts of the world, both in egypt and tunisia, just as it is essential to question the ambivalence of the eu's relations with the dictators who have ruled these countries for decades. it is necessary to freeze the financial assets not only of mubarak and his associates, but also those of his family.
in writing. − with this resolution, the ep: 1. welcomes the approval by the commission of the strategy for the danube region and supports the action plan accompanying it, focused on four pillars (connecting the danube region, protecting the environment, building prosperity and strengthening the danube region) and meeting the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchange, security and civil protection in the danube region; 2. recalls that the european parliament has been calling for this strategy since 2008 and calls on the hungarian presidency of the council of the european union and on the european council to endorse the eu strategy for the danube region by the june european council and to start its implementation as quickly as possible.
in writing. − with this resolution the ep: 1. reaffirms its belief that russia remains an important partner for the european union in building sustainable cooperation based on democracy and rule of law; 2. strongly condemns the terrorist attack at moscow’s domodedovo airport and expresses its condolences to the families of the victims and its solidarity with those wounded in the attack; underlines the need for the russian authorities to respond to this attack in a lawful and measured way and to allow the russian judicial system to work freely and independently to prosecute and convict those responsible for the attack; 3. expresses concern over reports of politically motivated trials, unfair procedures and failures to investigate serious crimes such as killings, harassment and other acts of violence; urges the russian judicial and law enforcement authorities to carry out their duties in an effective, impartial and independent manner in order to bring perpetrators to justice.
in writing. − we have finally voted in favour of the proposed resolution because amendments 2, 3, and 4, which intended to remove the phrase 'low carbon', have been adopted.
in writing. - i reject the resolution on the europe 2020 strategy as i consider it to be a continuation of the anti-social line of the brussels consensus which, without concern for citizens, is designed to consolidate the neoliberal policies which have led us to the serious economic crisis we are suffering. the crisis we are experiencing is not a natural disaster, but the consequence of the shift that conservative, liberal and social democratic political forces have made from the washington consensus to the brussels consensus, imposing non-public intervention in the economy, policies of wage moderation, the privatisation of public services and the main companies in key sectors of the economy such as energy or telecommunications. the consequences of these neoliberal measures, the brussels consensus, are well known: crisis, widespread unemployment, poverty and the curtailment of workers' rights and the social state. i therefore rejected this resolution on the europe 2020 strategy because i believe that this 'new' strategy is more of the same: neoliberal measures that do not include the necessary redistribution of wealth and the improvement of the social and labour rights of european citizens.
in writing. − among the articles that brought us to support that text, is article 12, which: welcomes the flagship initiative on 'innovation union' as a key driver to achieve europe 2020 objectives, which addresses the major societal challenges like energy and food security, climate change, health and an ageing population; recalls that the 3% target is composed of a 2% (private expenditure) share and a 1% (public expenditure) share; notes that there are still particular shortcomings in the field of private research spending which can only be overcome by adapting the regulatory environment for companies, including smes and welcomes, therefore, the commission's intention to improve framework conditions for business to innovate, in particular with respect to intellectual property rights.
in writing. − in this resolution, parliament (1) considers that, in the light of the commission’s proposal to maintain the employment policy guidelines adopted in 2010 for 2011, the recommendations on the member states’ national reform programmes (nrps) have become the main macroeconomic surveillance and orientation tool, and deplores the failure to involve parliament in this process and the lack of debate concerning it; and (2) considers that the major challenges faced by the eu and the member states with regard to employment and unemployment should also be duly reflected in the future process to address macroeconomic imbalances, within the policy framework of the european employment guidelines;
in writing. − on 12 january 2010, following assessment of preliminary national reform programmes (nrps) presented by the member states under the europe 2020 strategy, and in parallel with the presentation of the first annual growth survey, the commission adopted a proposal for a council decision in favour of confirming the validity, for 2011, of the member states’ integrated economic policy and employment guidelines adopted in 2010. this proposal takes account of the fact that the new europe 2020 integrated guidelines are to be fully transposed in the member states’ policy measures and sequencing of reforms to be presented in the final nrps due in april 2011. furthermore, the commission’s proposal is based on the commitment included in the 2010 employment guidelines to keep the guidelines stable, insofar as possible, until 2014 so that the member states can focus on their implementation.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i support the measures it contains to combat the obstacles to global food security: commercial speculation, concentration in the food supply chain, price volatility, low farmer incomes or climate change. i welcome the call for immediate and sustained action to ensure food security in the world and welcome the reaffirmation of the right to food as a human right. i support the call for the eu to increase its support for rural development, investing in social protection programmes and small-scale farming, and to take effective action to combat climate change. i am glad that you are asking the commission to include respect for community-equivalent standards in the fields of the environment, animal welfare and food safety and quality in trade negotiations with the eu's partners. i also support the call for the ec to respect and promote, in the field of trade agreements, the guarantee of a sustainable future for farmers and not to put at risk european agricultural production, smallholder agriculture and global access to food.
in writing. on the eve of the g20 finance ministers' meeting, europe is once again arriving unprepared at the negotiating table. since january 2011, the us administration has required the limitation and transparency of positions taken by financial funds in agricultural commodity markets. the commission must make proposals along the same lines without delay. this is a first step in countering the appetites of speculators. the impact is also dramatic and immediate for european farmers. they're no longer able to feed their animals. hundreds of farms are bankrupt. five years ago, wheat was worth 100 euros a ton. today, it is sold for nearly 300 euros. the commission requires farmers to adapt to market signals. she would be well advised to follow her own advice. faced with this crisis, the european union cannot wait until 2014 to find solutions.
mr president, i would also like to take this opportunity to stress two aspects which have already been mentioned but which i consider to be fundamental. the first is the use of cluster bombs by both thailand and cambodia and the need for both countries to ratify the international convention on cluster bombs and cluster munitions. the second is another matter which we also deal with regularly in these emergency sessions. it's about freedom of speech and, fundamentally, the internet. i think that the weakness, the fragility of the thai political system highlights some serious situations. for example, the process that is taking place against chiranuch premchaiporn, precisely for having on his website some comments that were critical of the royal family. the fact is that the person responsible for those comments has already been released, and the person responsible for the website has not yet been released. i think it is also necessary to recall the need for freedom of expression and, above all, freedom of association in each of these countries.
author. − mr president, the topic of the urgent resolution is important in itself. i too want to call on the president of yemen to halt the execution of thabet samoum, as well as to call on him and the authorities to commute the death sentence passed on him and other juveniles such as ali abdulla. however, as has been said, it would be unfortunate to miss this opportunity and not raise some of the basic and more important issues that are emerging now in that country. that is why i would also like to see parliament add, at the end of the resolution on which we will be voting, that it notes that in yemen as in other arab countries, notably tunisia and egypt, demonstrators have taken to the streets in recent weeks to demand more democracy and reforms of the state. ‘whereas many protestors have been attacked or taken into custody by the security forces’: that is our first amendment. secondly: ‘expresses its deep concern about the long-standing political and socio-economic problems in yemen and calls for considerable efforts by the international community to prevent the escalation of the current crisis’. finally, our third amendment: ‘expresses its solidarity with the demonstrators who demand democratic reforms and improved living conditions; welcomes in this context president saleh’s announcement that he will step down in 2013 and calls on the authorities to stop violence against peaceful protestors and to release all demonstrators who express their dissent peacefully’. if all three of these amendments are included, the resolution would be really very good.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i join in the sadness and emotion, and above all the indignation, at the murder of david kato and i remind you that what is needed now is to show a clear determination, a firm will to fight not only against this kind of murder but also against outrages, against any kind of discrimination from the point of view of sexual orientation. in africa, only 13 countries have legalized homosexuality and 38 have criminalized it. that is unacceptable and we must fight it politically and economically as the european union. because let us not forget that, in the end, we also have the possibility of contributing, from an economic point of view, to combating such measures. it is also necessary that persecution on the grounds of sexual orientation be regarded as a necessary element for even being able to appeal to refugee status, to the right to protection from the european union and the member states which, unfortunately, is not currently granted to them. if we had that chance in david kato's case, maybe we wouldn't be regretting it. and how many more we will have to regret in the future!
mr president, in a few months it will be four years since we experienced the first symptoms, the first impacts of this devastating economic crisis, the most important the world has suffered in the last three quarters of a century. first, it was a major international financial disorder; then, an economic crisis affecting the real economy, growth and employment, with serious social consequences; and we cannot forget that for hundreds of millions of people in the world, it is a humanitarian crisis. since then, numerous international meetings have been held, mainly of the g-20, with a large presence of eu member states. at these meetings many strong statements were made and formal commitments were made to reform international financial institutions, to reform tax systems, to introduce taxes on international financial transactions. but little more than formal statements. in fact, everything that has been the fight against tax havens, everything that has been the reform of financial institutions is yet to be done. i want to link this report to the needs of development policy. the developing countries are hit hardest by the crisis: they have less growth, less employment, more difficult access to external financing, higher debt and less official development assistance. and the introduction of the tax would mean a new and profound source of financing for development. that is why i think these aspects of the podimata report deserve support and i would like to remind you that this parliament must be loyal to the parliament itself, which in march 2010 already approved the introduction of this rate in a report on the impact of the crisis on developing countries.
mr president, i strongly support, as does my group, the introduction of a financial transaction tax for two reasons. the first, because it is necessary and useful. with a rate of 0.05% we could raise over 200 billion euros and, at a time when the magic policies of reducing expenditure require precisely an increase in revenue, i believe that this is more than necessary and fundamental. secondly, because it would enable us to combat and curb speculative activities, the great problem we are facing today in world politics, but also in european politics. but there is another reason why i support this rate: because we are being asked to do so by thousands and thousands of citizens who are represented by many organizations. and as political representatives we must not only listen but also be responsible and consistent in our response, and i think that this parliament must be clear and convincing in this regard tomorrow.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the last two decades of implementation of the cfp have shown that dealing with mediterranean fisheries separately through mesh-specific regulations only perpetuates the double standard in fisheries management in europe: atlantic versus mediterranean. this has resulted in a chronic status quo of mismanagement, lack of enforcement and overfishing in the mediterranean sea. only by making mediterranean stakeholders – from fishermen to governments – accountable alongside their atlantic counterparts, all subject to common standards and formal processes, can there be a decisive break from the past. neither mediterranean marine ecosystems and fish stocks, nor fishermen and society at large can afford a new failure by the cfp to fully address mediterranean fisheries this time. european fisheries in the mediterranean must cease to be considered as an outlier and must be fully and firmly covered by all aspects of the new cfp. this means that the conservation policy has to be provided with a new and fully fledged operational scheme for fishing effort management of mediterranean fisheries. this should deliver into the same conservation standards as the long-established operational scheme applied to atlantic fisheries.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank everybody for their interventions and to make two brief remarks. i agree with the honourable members who have underlined that what we really need now is good implementation of the regulation on the mediterranean. that regulation has only been in place for a very short time and we should give it a margin to succeed. i cannot see how it is possible to amend it now or to ask for more derogations. the regulation is very flexible. the member states have to follow the rules if they want to have derogations to this regulation. secondly, what we really need – and i agree with the members who mentioned this – is to have a situation in the mediterranean similar to the situation in other sea basins. it is quite clear that the mediterranean needs regulation. in the framework of cfp reform, we have to try to proceed, using the step-by-step approach, to having the same status for the mediterranean as we do for the other sea basins throughout europe. finally, the commission’s idea of having delegated acts for the implementation of the decisions of the international bodies in which the eu participates in no way effects the sovereignty of the member states. on the contrary, what we want is just the possibility to facilitate the transposition of those decisions into european law.
the commission has already requested the council to give it a mandate to renegotiate the fisheries protocol with mauritania, which expires on 31 july 2012. as we understand it, the mandate proposal is already being considered by the council, which will decide shortly. for our part, in the light of article 218 of the treaty, which gives parliament special powers for the final approval of fisheries agreements, we have already expressed our intention to make full use of the possibilities afforded to us by both the treaty and the interinstitutional framework agreement to be associated with the processing of fisheries agreements with the right to full information and at the same level as the council. we believe that we must be involved in the process as soon as the negotiating mandate is approved. and in this connection, the committee on fisheries has decided to initiate this new procedure with mauritania, which consists of submitting an oral question to enable us to obtain the first information on the future negotiation and the preparation of a motion for a resolution which will express our concerns with regard to each agreement - in this case, with regard to mauritania - with the request that they be taken into account by the negotiators and be part of the final protocol. the agreement with mauritania is vital, both for that country and for the european union. for mauritania, this means a 29% contribution to the national budget; for the european union, it is one of the three mixed agreements still in force, which allows the presence of various fishing methods essential for the supply of fish to the european union. an agreement of this importance and the experience gained give us the opportunity to put forward a whole series of suggestions which will be reflected in the joint resolution which the political groups will be negotiating in the coming days, and to highlight a number of concerns arising from the operation of the protocol in force. firstly, the importance which parliament attaches to the sectoral support component of the financial contribution and its correct use, in view of the needs of both the sector and the mauritanian fisheries administration in moving forward with the establishment of an advanced and sustainable fisheries policy. secondly, the fundamental role of the joint scientific committee and the importance of ensuring its proper functioning, since it has the responsibility of assessing resources and making recommendations on the biological status of stocks and, consequently, on the fishing opportunities available to the various fleets operating in mauritanian waters. thirdly, the need to know better the catches of other non-community countries operating in the area, which will mean greater accuracy in knowing what the fisheries surpluses are that mauritania can really offer to the european union, as well as the concern that the fishing opportunities negotiated should correspond to the real needs of the fleets, avoiding the temptation to pay for paper fish. fourthly, the importance for the fishing fleet of negotiating fishing opportunities and technical measures for each fishery, so as to put an end to the inconsistency of paying for resources which are then technically impossible to catch. finally, the urgent need to clarify the use made by mauritania of the control chapters included in the protocol, both as regards its preference for alternative methods, the slb, and the variable criteria used for seizures and the importance of both parties respecting the commitments on the resolution of differences in seizures which should remain in the new protocol. the commission is therefore going to ask the commission, as negotiator, to take account of these and other concerns which will form part of the joint resolution to be adopted at the next partsession, and on which we have already announced that our institution will be following up in detail.
mr president, we are one year away from the end of the agreement with mauritania and we are preparing for a new agreement. i believe that the agreement with mauritania is a good instrument, it is an instrument of development for the country itself and also for its sectoral fisheries policies. let us remember that it represents 29% of gdp and is the only capacity that the country itself has to develop. the agreement strengthens bilateral cooperation between the european union and mauritania and should ensure sustainable fisheries. we are talking here about illegal fishing and, of course, the scientific committee must be strengthened to provide more means of knowing the stocks to be fished, but fishing must be sustainable. the safety of ships must also be guaranteed. the commissioner also referred to the inability of the mauritanian government itself, which will have to develop its administrative structure in order to absorb the economic contributions of the european union; this too will be a counterpart. these agreements will of course also have to make the mauritanian government subject to human rights clauses and to help democratize the country. international fisheries agreements are also an instrument, a means of developing and democratizing a country.
mr president, commissioner, i am very pleased that the commission has requested a mandate to open negotiations for the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and mauritania, which will replace the current one as from 31 july 2012. the negotiating process must be conducted in a spirit of genuine institutional cooperation, taking into account the new powers of the european parliament following the treaty of lisbon. the new protocol, based on the situation of resources, should provide a framework for the sustainability of community fleet activities in mauritanian waters, ensure a fair contribution by the european union to the sustainable development of the mauritanian fishing sector - a contribution that goes beyond the purely economic level - and, in addition, strengthen international law and respect for human rights. the counterpart is currently one third of the mauritanian budget. it is therefore very important that it be applied correctly, that it promote responsible fishing for the benefit of the population dependent on the sector and that it contribute to combating illegal fishing, continuing the efforts of the monitoring and control systems that exist at present.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank everybody for their interventions. i would like to repeat very clearly that i very much welcome the involvement of parliament in the negotiations for this agreement and the other agreements. i would also like to remind you that we have a new framework agreement between the commission and the parliament on the details of this involvement. we have to respect this agreement. in the margins of this framework agreement i am here to facilitate your involvement and your information in any way i can. if we can do things better, i am here to cooperate. as you have already mentioned, this is about the procedure and the method. regarding the substance, we need to approach this issue in a very careful and balanced way because of the great importance of this country and because of the developments we are now watching in this area. we need a balance between respect for the surpluses and the resources there, and also between this and the interests of our vessels. we would like to make it possible for the eu vessels to go there, and to secure a level playing field for them because we are not the only vessels in these waters. many other countries are interfering in the region and we have to take care that we secure a level playing field for eu vessels. we also have to keep another balance; we have to be very cautious about the spending of our taxpayers’ money. i recognise that we have to do more in order to ensure that the money we give goes into the hands of the real beneficiaries. they also have a great influence. they deserve all the procedures and all the improvements this country needs. so this is how we are approaching this very sensitive issue. i also agree that we need more scientific – and more concrete – advice and we need more concrete data in order to assess our position there. we are going to go to the council next week and try to have a first mandate about this negotiation. afterwards we will inform – on a concrete and permanent basis – the fisheries committee in parliament about the negotiations. finally, i would like to say to you that, if you bear in mind that this new protocol will include a humanitarian clause and a human rights clause, it will be a win-win situation for us and for mauritania to have this agreement.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mr cadec for his initiative. i very much welcome his ideas. i would like also to thank the members of the european parliament who have subscribed to this oral question. we are now working on the preparation of a maritime strategy for the atlantic. i would like to inform the house that i am determined to propose a well-targeted strategy in order to put maritime affairs at the top of the agenda in this area. i also recognise that this area brings a solid heritage of significant environmental importance and has many committed stakeholders. i have encouraged all those stakeholders, including the atlantic, coastal and maritime regions and economic sectors, to give strong support to the strategy. they have already shown good support during its preparation phase. i will continue to encourage them to fully engage in its adoption procedure. this will be vital for the strategy’s success. the public consultation has shown us that an atlantic identity does exist. it has also shown that stakeholders welcome an approach that takes into account their geographical, demographic and economic specificities. they also support measures that bring coastal states together on matters such as marine knowledge, maritime surveillance, special planning and the marine strategy framework directive. the feedback we have received during the consultation will also allow us to identify priorities for eu actions in the field of regional development and research during the coming months. the atlantic strategy will establish concrete policy objectives by providing for cross-fertilisation between all the maritime sectors. a key priority will be to create jobs on the ground. this will require full commitment and active participation by member states, the conference of peripheral maritime regions, atlantic regions and the maritime industries. the assistance on these matters of members of the european parliament, in their constituencies, is therefore of the utmost importance and value. ladies and gentlemen, to ensure maximum visibility i am proposing that we plan for adoption after the discussion on the reform of the common fisheries policy. in this way we will be sure that the initiative gets the appropriate exposure, and we can also include the regional dimension of the new, reformed, common fisheries policy. parliament’s position also has to be taken fully into account. i therefore believe that the atlantic strategy will help, firstly, to promote sustainable growth and jobs in the region through eu research programmes and regional development programmes, secondly, to achieve the objectives of the reformed common fisheries policy and, thirdly, to achieve progress in protecting the environment and at the same time to develop the maritime economy in a sustainable manner in this vital region.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the european union's baltic sea strategy has already inspired other regions such as the danube region. all the regions which make up the atlantic arc - among which i would like to highlight the active role of my region, cantabria, in spain - have also been working since 1989 within the framework of the conference of peripheral maritime regions with the aim of cooperating on issues of common interest. commissioner, we believe that the time has come to develop a strategy for the atlantic as soon as possible. a strategy that is part of the europe 2020 strategy to protect the environment and biodiversity, to fight climate change, to promote sustainable urban and rural development, to promote in a responsible way the knowledge economy, tourism, marine research and innovation, renewable energy, maritime transport and training, to improve the accessibility of our territories by developing new sea routes, improving infrastructure networks and developing information and communication technologies, and promoting networking. as the crpm - to whom i would like to thank for all their work - says, the current economic crisis, together with the need to act on the climate challenge, opens the way to the development of a new model of truly sustainable development for the european union. this strategy is important for the regions of the atlantic arc, but it is not only important for them: it is important for the whole of the european union.
i am very pleased, mr president, that the commission is preparing a communication on the european union's strategy for the atlantic region, a region which has two major features in common: its oceanic, maritime aspect and its peripheral character. i'll make four considerations. first, the importance of the maritime dimension. the strategy should therefore focus on the preservation of the marine environment, fisheries, the environment, energy sources linked to the marine environment and tourism. secondly, given the peripheral nature of the region, transport - the so-called connectivity - is very important, both between the areas that make up the atlantic region and, above all, with the rest of the union. the transeuropean transport networks, the motorways of the sea and the energy links must therefore be given priority. as for galicia, my constituency, i am also thinking of the high-speed connection with northern portugal and the trans-cantabrian. thirdly, i believe, madam commissioner, that the strategy must not only focus on maritime issues; it must also have, as mr cadec has said, an important territorial dimension which includes the objectives of territorial, economic and social cohesion. as the resolution we are voting on tomorrow states, the atlantic strategy must be closely linked to the europe 2020 strategy and to regional development policy and the forthcoming financial perspectives. finally, we must take into account the various administrations and bodies that already exist in the atlantic region, including the xunta de galicia and the euroregion created with the neighbouring community of northern portugal, which were also among the first in the european union to set up a european grouping of territorial cooperation. i therefore stress the need for the commission to maintain a permanent dialogue with these regions and bodies, both in the preparation of the strategy and subsequently in its implementation.
mr president, commissioner, we are at a key moment in the construction of the future cohesion policy which, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, focuses not only on the economic and social aspects but also on the territorial aspects. territorial cohesion aims at harmonious development between territories so that their citizens can make the most of their unique features. but to achieve this objective, it is also necessary to make progress in the area of cooperation between the regions of the union facing the same challenges and problems. this is the objective of the european union strategy for the atlantic region: a common approach to address common challenges faced by the states of the region, including marine research, maritime surveillance and environmental and economic challenges. achieving our objectives requires a strategic and integrated approach that is in line with the europe 2020 strategy and the european union's policies for the period after 2013, in particular regional and maritime policy. but, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, this strategy needs to be based on a renewed multi-level governance based on a closer involvement of public, regional and local authorities, the member states, the european union and stakeholders from the private sector and civil society organisations, including interregional organisations and networks.
member of the commission. − mr president, this has been a very interesting discussion and it has proved that the initiative of having this oral question was really a success. i have three points. the first concerns our maritime strategy. in maritime strategy we can include many sectors, many actions and many perspectives. what will our focus be? our focus will be on trying to create linkages between the different sectors. let me explain myself. we have a space, we have a sea space – atlantic sea space. there we can have fisheries; we need environmental protection; we can have tourism; we can have transport; we can have aquaculture; we can have energy; and we can have research. so we need a way to create linkages between all these sectors and to overcome the possibility of there being conflicts of interest there. so maritime special planning will be a very important instrument for us, and maritime surveillance and maritime knowledge will also be very important instruments. this is our ambition. it is not about creating new structures – i can agree with that; we do not really need new structures. what we need are linkages between the different structures we already have. that is what this is all about – creating linkages between the existing structures in order to have better results. so this is my first point. the second point concerns your comments about having a territorial cohesion policy. i would like to remind you that to have this macro-region policy we need to have a proposal. a proposal must be made by the council to the commission. what we have for the time being is a proposal about a maritime strategy. there was a decision last june about this and we have already been authorised to come forward with a maritime strategy. we are working on this and we hope that in this way we are helping to put on the table the prospect of a macro-region approach. my third point is the need for an international approach. yes, i agree with all of you who said that we need good coordination with our neighbours on both sides of the atlantic too. we have to be cautious. we need to have good discussions and to try to fix a level playing field for everybody, because this is the only way to be successful. so i would like to thank mr cadec once again for his initiative and i would like to reassure you that all your suggestions will be taken on board.
mr president, last month the catalan public television channel (tv3) was shut down in valencia by the valencia regional government. not only does this measure contravene the european directives regarding linguistic diversity, the charter for regional or minority languages and the spanish constitution, but the shut-down of catalan television is also a direct attack on the cultural brotherhood that unites catalans and valencians through a common language. the regional valencian government is now imposing prohibitive sanctions on the private acció cultural del país valencià association which installed, 20 years ago, the tv repeaters, forcing them to close them down. i should also like to announce that a popular legislative initiative in favour of catalan television reception has been taken to the spanish parliament with the support of 615 000 citizens. the spanish socialist government should take it into account, but up to now nothing has been done.
thank you, mr migalski. mr mcmillan-scott has listened to you from the gallery, but we are all very interested in human rights. you speak of torture and i can assure you that the man who is now presiding, whose fingernails have been torn off, is also very interested in human rights issues, because we have had the opportunity to live through situations such as those you have described and therefore i am sorry to say that we are very deeply interested.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to express my group's displeasure at the council's decision to extend for one year the current fisheries agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco, on the basis of a proposal from the commission. we are disappointed that the waters of the non-self-governing territory of western sahara, which, as we all know, is one of the few territories in africa still to be decolonised and which is under the auspices of the united nations, are still included in this agreement. these are waters that are not the kingdom of morocco's and therefore the european union should not include these waters of western sahara in the agreement. judgments of international courts have shown this, and above all international law, which is what it is for, says that it is not the property of morocco. the legal services of this house have themselves expressed their reservations because the benefits of the previous fisheries agreement did not accrue to the saharawi people and so from a legal point of view we are clearly against this decision. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must be very careful, taking into account the experience of tunisia, egypt and libya, and that the european union should be much more rigorous in demanding compliance with international law.
this closes this spot.
the following is the report by christel schaldemose, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the review of the general product safety and market surveillance directive (2010/2085 (ini)) (a7-0033/2011).
member of the commission. − mr president, there was a very interesting discussion on this matter at the level of the member states, almost all of whose representatives were – i should point out – women. on behalf of the commission, allow me to congratulate parliament on its resolution on the revision of the general product safety directive and market surveillance. the commission welcomes that resolution and very much appreciates the high quality of its content. the conclusions of the resolution closely reflect the commission’s intentions on how to revise general product safety rules in the eu. we need a clear and effective market surveillance framework. i agree with everyone on that. we need a framework that ensures a working internal market in safe goods. the commission has already undertaken extensive consultations with a full range of stakeholders to determine how best to achieve that objective. to find a coherent solution across different product sectors, vice-president tajani and commissioner dalli have agreed to work together towards the consolidation of eu rules on market surveillance. the commission is determined to make sure that both consumers and businesses benefit from the eu internal market in safe goods. therefore, we will clarify and update existing eu product safety rules to improve the health and safety protection of consumers. we have to be mindful of our funding possibilities and margins and we also have to respect the competences of member states, but the rules should be able to effectively identify and then adequately respond to the emergence of new risks – and i agree that there are new risks in global supply chains. i also agree with parliament that special attention needs to be awarded to children’s products. at the same time, the revision should provide a more level playing field for eu economic operators and reduce unnecessary administrative costs. in particular, consistency between the general product safety rules laid down in the general product safety directive and the rules contained in the 2008 ‘goods package’ should now be within our grasp. clearer product safety obligations of economic operators will therefore be established. the current mechanisms for member state market surveillance cooperation and coordination will also be improved. finally, the functioning of the rapid alert system for non-food products – rapex – should be enhanced. that system is very important and is already used in our cooperation with china and other countries, but we really need to enhance it in order to face all the challenges mentioned here. vice-president tajani and commissioner dalli intend to present jointly a proposal for a single and coherent eu framework for market surveillance. i wish to thank parliament again for this very good resolution.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 march at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by mrs michèle rivasi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the evaluation of the management of h1n1 influenza in 2009 and 2010 in the eu (2010/2153 (ini)) (a7-0035/2011).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs rivasi, for this report, which really makes a valuable contribution to our efforts to learn from the 2009 pandemic. i agree with you that we have to learn from this pandemic and also that we need to critically review our response. to ensure the protection of european citizens against such health threats, we need to improve our preparedness and planning to manage similar cross-border threats to health. the eu already had in place independent capacity and expertise on pandemic influenza. in the field of research alone the european commission has funded over 50 projects on influenza since 2000, an investment of eur 150 million. our agencies, the european centre for disease prevention and control and the european medicines agency, provided scientific advice during the pandemic to support the union and its member states. in addition, commission services actively supported the member states in managing the threat through the eu health security committee. however i have to admit that, along with parliament’s report, various evaluations of our response have identified a series of shortfalls and challenges which need to be addressed. these include the procurement of pandemic vaccines, the need to better coordinate vaccination strategies, the need for greater flexibility in our preparedness plans and the need for better communication with the public. the commission with the support of the scientific agencies and with the member states – because this is a shared competence with the member states – is committed to moving forward on these issues. these challenges will be addressed by us under two initiatives. first, the commission will present a health security initiative before the end of this year reinforcing our coordination capacities, and second, the commission will also initiate a joint procurement mechanism for pandemic vaccines and antivirals for those member states who wish to join. this would strengthen solidarity within the eu by guaranteeing a minimum level of equitable access to vaccines. this would also reinforce our purchasing power to obtain better contractual terms. the commission welcomes the support expressed by the rapporteur for such initiatives. the commission also plans to fund additional research addressing behaviour aspects and communication strategies, notably to improve vaccine update. finally, concerning the transparency and independence issues raised, we consider these to be very important and i really think we have to do something here. the commission and the relevant agencies will work together to improve our procedures on declarations of interests and potential conflicts of interest. we believe we need to continue to pull together towards our common aim of ensuring that we are better prepared to protect our citizens against future health threats.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 march at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mrs edite estrela, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on reducing health inequalities in the eu (2010/2089 (ini)) (a7-0032/2011).
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is grateful to parliament for its support for our action to bridge health inequalities and for its recommendations on this important issue. i would like also to thank in particular the rapporteur, ms estrela, for her commitment to this cause. disparities in health between countries, between regions, between rich and poor, between different ethnic minorities, affect each and every eu member state and in many places they are getting wider. i would like to be sincere on this issue. we are now beginning to see the full effects of the economic crisis on people’s health and on the health services. we are now beginning to see the effects of unemployment and of deficits, so there is a risk that such inequalities will grow worse. reducing health inequalities is important both for our citizens’ wellbeing and for europe’s economic recovery. it is a major challenge which, as parliament’s report points out, requires action across policy areas and levels of government. your report gives important pointers for the future. you underline the need to improve access to promotion, preventive care and effective healthcare services. you further emphasise the need to pay particular attention to vulnerable groups and to use new technologies, such as telemedicine, in a way that reduces disparities in health care. the commission fully shares your concern. you also highlight gender inequality as an important element contributing to health social inequalities. i personally agree fully with you on this. the commission is vigorously taking forward its programme of action to help reduce health inequalities, as set out in the communication on solidarity in health, by working across policies and in partnership with member states and stakeholders. to make such partnerships operational, member states are now beginning a joint action on health inequalities, funded through the eu health programme. this action includes work on health inequality impact assessment, regional and scientific networks and stakeholder initiatives. action across policies starts with our work on public health, for example on tobacco control and nutrition and through action on active and healthy ageing. but our strategy also includes commitments in areas such as employment and social policy, agriculture, research and regional policy. clearly more action is needed. equally clearly, this will not happen overnight. it will take years to fully succeed, but together we can – and indeed we must – make a lasting and tangible difference so that all europeans have a chance of living in good health.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 march at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mrs eva joly, on behalf of the committee on development, on taxation and development cooperation with developing countries to promote good governance in tax matters (2010/2102 ((ini)) (a7-0027/2011).
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank the european parliament, and especially the committee on development, for this report. i am pleased to see that mrs eva joly’s report highlights, and gives added strength to the message of, the commission’s communication on tax and development. it also sets very ambitious targets and provides powerful guidance for the european union to strengthen revenue mobilisation in developing countries. domestic resource mobilisation is central for sustainable growth, poverty reduction, good governance and the provision of public goods needed to achieve the millennium development goals. we need to improve synergies between tax and development policies and assist developing countries in building better tax systems and administrations. we face a serious problem. i was personally impressed by your figures stating that the amount of illicit outflows is about ten times the amount of aid money going into developing countries. this is really striking. so we must work simultaneously at two complementary levels. first, we need to support effective domestic tax systems and, secondly, we need to work towards a transparent, cooperative and fair international tax environment to help developing countries fight against tax evasion and harmful tax competition. your report calls on the commission firstly to take better account of the impact of trade liberalisation and, secondly, not to be limited to the oecd principles in the fight against tax evasion and harmful tax competition. i would like to refer to these challenges. concerning the first matter, i can assure you that we are fully committed to supporting successful fiscal transition through increased support for capacity building, demand-driven regional and international capacity development initiatives and better donor coordination at eu and international levels. concerning the second matter, the commission considers tax evasion and harmful tax competition as major obstacles to domestic resource mobilisation. therefore we are helping developing countries to develop capacities to address these challenges and also promoting better international cooperation in tax matters. a lot of work has already been undertaken since the adoption of our communication. concrete action has been made possible by the parliament’s financial support. your 2010 allocation of eur 708 000 has allowed us to fund a series of important activities in order to promote tax governance. these activities include technical seminars of the african tax administration forum, support to the extractive industries, transparency initiatives and the financing of a side event at the united nations on domestic resource mobilisation. we will also provide technical assistance to implement tax information exchange agreements. moreover, the commission is preparing a communication to assess the feasibility of introducing a country-by-country reporting requirement into eu legislation. we had a public consultation, which ended last january, and now we will continue with an impact assessment on this important issue. this could help developing countries to combat tax evasion more effectively. i sincerely want to thank parliament for your support and your commitment on these issues. i am convinced that much progress can be made to strengthen tax governance and i am glad to see that these topics have also been included in the agendas of the g20 and the g8.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 march at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr georgios papastamkos, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on eu agriculture and international trade (2010/2110 (ini)) (a7-0030/2011).
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes this report and thanks the rapporteur, mr papastamkos, and the members of both committees – the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on international trade – for their efforts in addressing a complex topic in a comprehensive fashion. a number of recommendations in this report echo the political vision and priorities pursued by the commission, as extensively outlined in a number of communications. i have to admit that trade liberalisation raises significant challenges for eu agriculture and for the european commission, too. however, as parliament has also recognised, there are a number of negotiations on international trade that present opportunities for our agriculture. we also need to look at the wider benefits, for the european economy as a whole, that are potentially deliverable by the opening-up of trade. overall, it is important to maintain a coherent message. we need this message at the range of ongoing talks to which we are committed, whether on doha, with a number of asean and african partners, or with the mercosur countries. it would therefore be wrong to simply portray increased trade openness as a mere lose-lose scenario for eu agriculture. as we have significant offensive interests in agriculture, trade agreements provide new opportunities stemming from our partners’ concessions. this is backed by hard facts. preliminary figures for 2010 show the eu to be a net exporter of agri-food products, with over eur 90 billion worth of agri-food exports and a trade surplus of more than eur 6 billion. that trend can be explained by the strategic focusing of the eu agri-food sector on the delivery of high-quality – as has been mentioned – and high-value products, for which world demand is evidently growing. thanks to its unique and diverse know-how, the eu agri-food sector has a strong card to play on the global marketplace. i agree that we have to invest in that card. in that context, consistent market orientation of the reforms of the cap over the last two decades has helped enhance the competitiveness of the agriculture sector by encouraging farmers to adapt to market solutions. at the same time, however, the diversity of agriculture in the eu’s 27 member states should be fully appreciated. if the eu is to secure the long-term future of its agricultural areas in a territorially and environmentally balanced fashion, we have to respect that. we have to understand also that particularly sensitive sectors cannot be expected to sustain an excessive level of additional imports that would put further pressure on average domestic prices and production. the very challenge, when negotiating multilateral or bilateral trade agreements that impact on eu agriculture, is therefore to strike the right balance between our offensive and our defensive interests in agriculture, as well as between agriculture and other areas of our trade negotiations. the commission is very conscious of this and will continue to pursue that goal in close cooperation with parliament. therefore, i would like parliament to help us in getting the balance right and in sending the right signal to the rest of the world.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 march at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by martin häusling, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the protein deficit in the eu: finding solutions to a long-standing problem (2010/2111 (ini)) (a7-0026/2011).
member of the commission. − mr president, a reliable and sustainable protein supply is really essential for the eu livestock sector. so i would like to thank rapporteur häusling and the members of the committee on agriculture for putting this important theme back on the agenda. your report is a welcome contribution to the discussion on the reform of the common agricultural policy towards 2020. as you know, the commission intends to table legal proposals in the autumn. i should like to underline that domestic production of protein has increased with a rise in by-products from biofuel production. production of rapeseed meal and ethanol co-products has risen sharply. they now represent 22% of the eu’s consumption of protein-rich feed ingredients compared to 12% five years ago. support for farmers using crop rotation systems which include pulses is one of the main ideas in your report. as you know, crop rotation is one of the elements under consideration for greening direct payments. so i welcome your support for enhancing the environmental sustainability of arable farming. i see further opportunities for exploring synergies with, for example, integrated pest management. however, any greening of direct payments should not put in jeopardy the decoupling of direct support from the requirement to produce a specific crop. this idea is central to the market orientation that has been achieved by the past reforms. let me stress that several member states currently use the possibility to couple part of the direct aid to environment objectives to support protein crops. let me also underline that a significant increase in pulses and soya beans in the eu would probably imply a reduction in the production of cereals, as availability of land in europe is limited. finally, i would like to mention two other areas where eu policy can make a contribution: research and rural development policy. both can play their part in getting the most out of our various sources of protein. for example, they can help through useful training in the best use of protein crops and in optimal feeding practices. they can also help through the development of new plant varieties. in conclusion, the commission welcomes your ideas in view of the preparation of the reformed proposals. however, let us be clear. crop rotation or incentives through research and rural development policy can help. of course they can help. but the eu will remain dependent on imported protein.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 march at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
i wanted to tell you that tomorrow, being international women's day, you're only going to be presiding over women all day long. so it will certainly be a very pleasant day, because they usually preside better than we do.
i declare the 2010-2011 session of the european parliament closed. (the sitting was closed at 11.30 p.m.)
madam president, today is a very significant day to talk about equality between men and women because we are celebrating international women's day by remembering those who 100 years ago fought for labor and economic rights and for women's suffrage. we have made a lot of progress in these 100 years, but much remains to be done, and true equality is still a dream, and discrimination against women is a fact. i believe that each of us, men and women, can do much more to achieve the true emancipation of women, because there are many women in the world whose right to live is threatened, their dignity violated and their freedom denied. let me, on this international women's day, show my support and hope to all the women in the north african revolution who are fighting for their democratic rights. because a woman cannot be worth half a man, not in arab countries, not anywhere in the world. so we're worth the same and we deserve the same. and i will continue to fight for that equality and, as long as it does not exist, there will continue to be international women's day. although many people do not want to see it, it is a fact that women earn half as much as men, that domestic violence affects mostly women and children. and, again, we must continue to denounce all these facts in this parliament and, of course, i promise that i will continue to work.
madam president, i would like to express my appreciation and gratitude to all the women - many of them well known and in the books, but many others invisible - who, over the course of these 100 years, have worked and fought to achieve the equality that exists today. but much remains to be done, and in these reports we address issues such as reconciling family and working life, difficulties in accessing the labour market and the fight against gender-based violence, which is one of the biggest social problems in europe and the world. equality between men and women is not yet a reality; therefore, we must now begin a new stage, moving from commitments to realities. we must make progress in the european institutions and in the rest of european society to ensure that effective equality between men and women is the opportunity to achieve a fairer and more equal society, and men are essential in this process. there's still a lot to do, and we'll see you in it together.
mr president, we have approved one more initiative today, but as the commissioner said, 'from words to deeds'. despite the measures, inequality persists. women are well educated - in recent years with better results, according to the latest data from universities - but we are still discriminated against, with women with disabilities, the elderly and immigrants suffering double discrimination. today, in addition to this initiative, we have heard many statements, but we are not here to set an example. it is enough to look at the gender of the president of the commission, or to look at the members of the council, the rotating presidencies, the permanent president, the presidencies of parliament and the court of auditors, the members of the european central bank - among whom, for the first time, there will be no women - or the presidencies of the parliamentary groups of this institution, or the absence of women in the delegations of some countries. the image of european politics is still male. we have a long way to go. that is why i have supported this initiative. i believe in the odds of making it through this difficult path and, above all, in the motto with which it began: 'from words to deeds'.
although the situation in the field of women's rights has improved, i would like to highlight at least three aspects: first, the pay gap remains significant, and during the crisis, it has increased because we have chosen to support banks, rather than schools, kindergartens, where women predominate. secondly, in the european union, where fertility rates are already low, particularly in the new member states, support for women, expectant mothers and new mothers is inadequate. discrimination in the labour market is also considered. third, in politics, where the ideal ratio of men to women is 50 to 50, women's participation is still very low. the same is true of the executive branch. i do not think that our report is sufficient to give a new impetus to the solution of these problems.
mr president, women have always done the invisible work: the work of the home, the work of caring for the affections, which cannot be bought or hired. but we haven't appreciated it. we're now entering the job market. but we are still at risk of poverty, a situation which is aggravated in the context of the economic crisis. it is our duty to eradicate female poverty - that is why i have supported this initiative - by strengthening the instruments and legislative measures to reduce the gender pay gap. we must implement active employment policies in their favour and review social protection systems, with special regard to older women and disabled women. we should encourage women to enter the labour market, because they bring more benefits, and we should reduce the wage gap, because this will lead to an increase in gross domestic product of 13%, as various studies are showing. it is a matter of justice, but above all it is an opportunity for competitiveness in europe.
in writing. − with this report the ep decided not to waive the immunity of elmar brok.
in writing. − a well-functioning single market would also mean safe products and consumer confidence. while aiming for free circulation and an even broader variety of products on the market, we should not lose focus on consumer safety. a general look at the area of product safety shows that, during the last decade, we have seen progress when it comes to product safety in the eu. governments as well as enterprises take responsibility to ensure safer products and, due to legislation at eu level, there has been a common approach to product requirements, which has improved the general safety of products within the internal market. although progress is seen, there is still room for improvement in this field. this needs to be addressed, as it could jeopardize the safety of the consumer or sometimes even be fatal.
in writing. − the ep has today thrown a spotlight on the disproportionate response to the swine flu outbreak in europe. member states spent billions of euros on vaccines, which were authorised in a rush despite the moderate nature of the virus. health budgets are notoriously overstretched, and there are far more important health issues to tackle than giving subsidies to big pharmaceutical firms. meps have today called for a revision of the eu's health response mechanisms. preparedness plans should become sufficiently autonomous and flexible to be adapted as swiftly as possible to the actual risks. the evaluation of medicines needs to be fully transparent, and all declarations of interest should be published to allow for public scrutiny of possible conflicts of interests. the eu blindly followed the who in its response to the swine flu outbreak, and this clearly needs to change. the ep has called for meaningful eu risk evaluation and for the european centre for disease prevention and control to be given adequate means to carry out all its tasks, not least to assess the severity of infection risk.
in writing. − the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was set up by an international agreement in 1949. the area covered by the agreement comprises the mediterranean, the black sea and connecting waters. the main tasks of the gfcm are to promote the development, conservation and rational management of living aquatic resources, to formulate and recommend conservation measures and to promote cooperative projects in the area of training. the present proposal for a regulation is simply intended to transpose various recommendations adopted by the gfcm, and already in effect in the gfcm’s contracting states, into a single community legislative act into which future recommendations can be incorporated by way of amendments to that act. the provisions of the regulation are the usual types of things that such organisations regulate. title ii deals with restrictions on fishing gear and activities (‘technical measures’). title iii consists of ‘control measures’ such as reporting requirements, inspections, etc. title iv deals with cooperation, information and reporting requirements for the commission and the member states to cooperate and exchange information with the executive secretary of the gfcm.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the podimata report on innovative finance at global and european level because it introduces an idea which has been one of the pillars of the left in the world, namely the introduction of a tax on financial transactions. it is true that the text could be much bolder, and not make the creation of this rate conditional on the existence of a similar rate on a world scale. in my political organisation we have always advocated the need to create a tax on the flow of capital in the world, such as the so-called 'tobin tax'. for that reason, although the proposal in the report seems to me to be insufficient, i think it is a good step.
in writing. − the european parliament today reiterated the call for the introduction of an eu-level financial transaction tax, as part of a report on innovative financing adopted by meps. the greens have long called for the introduction of a financial transaction tax and welcomed the vote, with green mep philippe lamberts commenting: ‘the ep has kept the pressure on for the introduction of a financial transaction tax at eu-level. while the ultimate goal should be to introduce a global ftt, there are clear benefits for the eu to push ahead on its own. meps have today urged the commission to take steps to this end. the greens have long championed the introduction of a financial transaction tax both as a means of curbing harmful speculation and as a new source for generating public revenue. as well as being a potentially significant source of revenue at a time when national exchequers are under strain, a financial transaction tax is socially just. a ftt would also clearly address the systemic risk emanating from high-frequency trading, acting as a disincentive for risky speculation. it is time for the commission and member states to stop stalling’.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the estrela report on reducing health inequalities in the eu. access to healthcare for all citizens, whether they are eu citizens or immigrants with or without papers, is one of the basic human rights. it is precisely the populations most at risk of exclusion that need to be guaranteed this fundamental right. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − as the draft report already covered most of the relevant issues, there was no need to table many amendments. while we, the greens/efa, co-signed a number of amendments with the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs, we were the only ones to try to introduce criticism of the current model of drug development based on patents, which leads to high prices for medical innovation and lack of access to affordable essential medicines. we called for new models of medical innovation and for tackling the lack of access to affordable essential medicines. we called for new models of medical research (innovation prize schemes, equitable licensing, patent pools, public-private partnerships and social conditionality in the concession of eu research funding) but these amendments were not adopted.
in writing. − parliament has today highlighted the importance of tackling the erosion of tax revenues in developing countries, notably by doing more to combat tax havens. in order to be credible to this end, the eu must clearly clamp down on its own tax havens first and go beyond the oecd framework. the report also calls for the adoption of an international convention on tax matters that would include sanctions both for non-cooperative jurisdictions and for financial institutions that operate with tax havens. meps have also underlined the need to ensure greater transparency by multinational companies on their tax compliance in developing countries, notably the extractive industries, by ensuring country-by-country reporting. eu tax assistance should encourage the development of progressive taxation regimes in developing countries, notably by securing an equitable share of a corporation’s profits. good tax governance is crucial to development and the eu should support developing countries to this end, particularly against a background of the decline in trade taxes resulting from trade liberalisation globally. i welcome the support of meps for this report, which outlines clear proposals to this end.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this report on agriculture and international trade, since it focuses on the central element of the eu's trade policy: free trade agreements. it is true that there are some positive points in the report, such as the singularization of the outermost regions, which, in order to guarantee their food sovereignty, deserve special treatment. the report nevertheless endorses the active promotion of the eu's agricultural interests without taking account of the asymmetries with its trading partners and the commitment to free trade areas without taking account of the harmful impact on these populations. and, furthermore, the report explicitly threatens sanctions against argentina for having established protectionist measures. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − given the impasse in the multilateral trade negotiations, the eu has pursued the negotiation of bilateral and interregional trade agreements, as complementary to the multilateral framework. as in the case of morocco, there is currently severe competition between the us and the eu as to who will enter first – and under which conditions – into key new markets. my colleague josé bové has been able to clearly question the approach of these bilateral agreements in the case of morocco in his report in inta which might lead to a rejection of the agreement as proposed by the commission. we have voted in favour.
in writing. - the häusling report on the eu protein deficit and the search for solutions introduces some positive elements, such as aid to farmers that contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. i have voted against it, however, because the text clearly advocates genetically modified organisms and opens the door to europe to food contaminated on european territory and to animal flours.
in writing. − key points in the report are: to create a framework for the cultivation and use of protein plants in the eu in order to replace the import of protein crops from third countries; to abandon the blair house agreement and to improve crop rotation in the framework of cap reform; to generate a new scientific approach and to improve training and facilities for farmers. the result of votes in the agri committee was satisfying except for the introduction of a number of amendments by alde and the epp ‘contaminating’ the report with amendments promoting gmos. the interested gm industry had been lobbying to ease the zero tolerance policy of the eu, which does not allow non-authorised gm feed to enter the eu. unfortunately in plenary we could not decontaminate the report on protein deficit from the gmo zero tolerance attack. but the majorities in plenary were much closer to our position than in the agri committee. so it is worth trying hard to reverse majorities in plenary on gmo issues. häusling (green) resigned as rapporteur.
in writing. - today, 8 march, i voted in favour of the nedelcheva report on equality between men and women in the european union. the report notes with concern the lack of progress in the member states towards achieving equality between men and women. the report therefore calls on the member states to put in place mechanisms to combat this inequality.
in writing. − the nedelcheva femm report was adopted by 366 : 200 : 32. the draft report and the final result were ok from our point of view. positive because adopted: reduce the gender pay gap to 0.5% by 2020; member states to implement the principle of equal pay for equal work properly (para. 27); application of sanctions for non-compliant member states (para. 27, originally greens/efa amendment in femm); binding targets to ensure equal representation of women and men (para. 53); quota to ensure parity on the management boards of companies, with spain and france as an example (para. 53); binding targets to guarantee parity between men and women in positions of responsibility in companies, public administrations and political bodies (para. 56); health and reproductive rights, easy access to contraception and access to abortion (para. 67).
in writing. - today, 8 march, international working women's day, i voted in favour of this report because the prevention and reduction of poverty among women is an important element of the fundamental principle of social solidarity to which the european union is committed. women's poverty is not only the result of the recent economic crisis, but also the consequence of various factors, such as stereotypes, the gender pay gap, the obstacles created by the lack of a work-life balance, the longer life expectancy of women and, in general, the various forms of discrimination on grounds of gender, which mainly affect women. the report calls on the eu member states to put in place mechanisms to combat poverty faced by women, which is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. − the plumb femm report was adopted by majority. we supported many paragraphs for which a separate vote was requested by s&d/ppe/alde. these paragraphs were mainly repetitions. the final result is also ok. positive because adopted: eliminate gender inequalities in eu 2020 strategy (para. 38); full pay for maternity leave as adopted in estrela report on 20.10.2010 (para. 39); increase female representation in political, economic and corporate decision-making bodies. public services of high standard (para. 43) should also be compatible with full-time working hours. but also negative because gender dimension in recovery plans (para. 15) not adopted.
madam president, our group has sought - and i think it will be clear tomorrow - the broadest possible consensus in this parliament, because we would like all the institutions of the union to have a single approach. for years this negotiating process has been useful in getting the process of political and economic reforms in turkey moving forward, with contradictions, setbacks, advances, but overall useful. we are now in the moment of truth, perhaps, and we are reminded of this by the process of change which is taking place in the mediterranean at the present time. in his last appearance before the committee on foreign affairs, commissioner füle called for a new realism which would avoid strictly short-term visions. it is this new realism that we need in the negotiating process with turkey, with all the caution but also with all the commitment and seriousness necessary to avoid the processes of slowdown, lack of credibility, excessive over-understanding, to say clearly that agreements and commitments are to be respected, and that this requires a firm attitude on the part of some and on the part of others. i hope that in the next report we can see that there has been a further step forward in this negotiating process.
madam president, i very much welcome the járóka report because it gives us an opportunity to mention some specific points. the roma inclusion strategy must be guided by an insider approach that is designed by roma for roma, which means empowerment of roma, inclusion in the decision-making process, hiring of roma staff and mediators in key positions at local, national and eu level. unlawful practices which continue with impunity in eu member states have to stop: violence against roma, violations of their right to free movement, increasing activities of extremist political parties and politicians, systematic segregation of romany children in education, widespread residential segregation of roma, trafficking in human beings, denial of access to health care and social services, coercive sterilisation of romany women. many reasons thus justify this report and many more reasons justify this strategy, so i welcome very much the report, the strategy and as you say, madam commissioner, let us keep up the work.
madam president, commissioner, i too would like to begin by thanking our colleague mr lange for the effort he has made to integrate so many opinions and so many views, as is often the case in this parliament. i would also like to thank the various political group alternate rapporteurs. in fact, this report seeks to answer a question that has been raised for a long time now, which is: does european industry, european industries, have any future in a global world? and i think the answer is yes. and it is because there are countries in the european union that are demonstrating it. and it is because there are specific european industrial sectors that are demonstrating this. and all of this has to do with a set of issues: some relating to the labour market - we need a flexible labour market, not a rigid one - some relating to productivity and some relating to fiscal policies and fiscal incentives. but i will allow myself to highlight three today that have a lot to do with the european union itself. firstly, the culture of innovation and the culture of entrepreneurship. these are two fundamental questions. entrepreneurship and innovation are key elements for the future of any european industry. particular attention should be paid to young entrepreneurs. secondly, to strengthen the internal market and make the internal market competitive and free of competition within itself. the aid still received by transport, energy and publicly owned companies must therefore be reduced if there is to be free competition in the european internal market. and thirdly, to respect the conditions of competition in the international framework: when it comes to environmental policies, when it comes to the origin of products, it is essential to compete on equal terms. protectionism, no, within the european union, but protectionism, no, when our industry competes with third countries and third regions.
madam president, the crisis has certainly shown the importance of industry as the engine of the economy. we are glad, mr tajani, that the commission has taken this view and has restored industrial policy to the union. our rapporteur, whom i congratulate on his excellent work, has already explained how we understand the transition to an industrial policy that is smart, resource efficient and environmentally and socially sustainable. i would like to stress just one aspect of what he said, which i think is crucial: human capital. on the basis that all jobs should be 'green' jobs, it is essential that european workers have the right skills, not only to improve the competitiveness of our industry, but also to ensure that no worker is left behind. we are starting from a good base: young europeans have never been better prepared and yet we lack engineers, we lack young entrepreneurs and we lack innovative human resource management policies. we must therefore stimulate synergies between universities with a more entrepreneurial culture and companies that are truly knowledge-driven. in the field of training, it is necessary to adapt job skills to the requirements of the new economy and to make them economically accessible to workers and enterprises. the industry should also place greater emphasis on organisational innovation, understood as a more flexible and dynamic allocation of risks and responsibilities within the company. only then can you incorporate and exploit the talents and knowledge of your workers. and finally, let me say a few words as a member of a delegation which has opposed the launch of enhanced cooperation on the community patent because we think it affects the internal market, territorial cohesion and legal security. the court of justice of the european union has endorsed this position in its opinion published today, concluding that the agreement establishing a european and community patent court is not compatible with the provisions of the treaty.
madam president, this report on industrial policy, which we shall be voting on tomorrow, contains a point which will not be supported by the spanish members, in that it welcomes enhanced cooperation as a suitable legal instrument for establishing a community patent. we are not only spanish members, but also members from other member states, who question the legality of enhanced cooperation as the appropriate legal instrument in this case and who denounce the ignorance of the unanimity rule, which must be applied to all questions relating to the language regime. but, madam president, i have asked for the floor to draw the house's attention to the opinion published today by the court of justice of the european union, which declares the jurisdictional system of a community patent as it is now set up to be contrary to the treaties. this clear position of the court is a considerable stone in the way of this enhanced cooperation and i hope that it will cause other members to join us in defending the equality of all member states and the rigorous application of the primary law of the union.
madam president, mr tajani, the situation is clear: the european union needs to guarantee the supply of rare earths, but we are facing increasingly tough competition in this market. china certainly controls 95% of world production and its continuous cuts in export quotas have put this issue at the centre of the g20 agenda. we are therefore discussing a crucial issue for the european economy as a whole, which must of course be tackled from the point of view of cooperation with the countries with reserves, but also, and above all, from the point of view of research, development and innovation. it has been said that investing in r & d is essential to tackling the technological challenges of finding more efficient extraction techniques, finding alternative raw materials to reduce dependence or, most importantly, recycling, the so-called 'urban mines', which can be an important source of raw materials for the european union. we therefore welcome the commitments you have made in this respect, mr tajani, and we will follow closely all the steps taken by the commission in this respect.
madam president, in the field of energy where the union is facing high import dependency, much has been done to reduce the constant risks associated with our vulnerability, the most recent and clear example of which was the approval of the regulation on the security of gas supply. no option on our agenda should be neglected in order to reduce our energy import dependency. this is why i, together with other colleagues, presented written declaration no 67 on the possibility of exploiting alternative sources of gas in the european union. i would like to share three facts with you on this matter. first, renewables represent an increasing part of our energy mix which is positioning gas as the major backup fuel. second, the us has proven the existence of technological know-how and the economic viability of these unconventional sources, and third, the union has a great potential in unconventional sources of gas. in terms of energy dependency, we are not in the position to miss any opportunity.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to discuss with this house the circumstances in our southern neighbourhood and of course with particular reference, as the president has said, to the situation in libya. let me begin by stating the obvious which is that the southern neighbourhood is changing fast and across the region people are standing up for that core human aspiration: to be able to shape their own lives, economically and politically. they call for political participation with dignity, accountability, they call for justice and they call for jobs. i believe we have to respond to those calls. i believe they are just and i believe that we need to make sure that we act quickly. a crucial aspect of what is going on is that the demand is coming from within. in my visits to tunisia and egypt, i heard many, many times: this is our country; this is our revolution. we want to do things our way but we want to engage with you and we need help. those principles, i believe, should guide the actions that we take: these democratic transitions must belong to the people; they must be home-grown. they will determine what happens next. but we have to be ready to offer the support, ready with creativity and determination and to do so on a scale that matches the historic nature of the changes we are seeing. in a fluid situation like this, we have to have our actions rooted in our core values and our core interests. we have every reason to back the changes underway. tunisians, egyptians, libyans and others are demanding respect for those values that actually are at the heart of the european ideal. the emergence of the democratic societies will help to sustain security and provide shared prosperity in our neighbourhood and that is why we have moved between us, the commission and myself, to produce a joint paper for the european council that meets on friday which includes measures that we hope will contribute to that: more european union financial support available from within the institutions, but also by mobilising the european investment bank – and i pay tribute to parliament for moving so swiftly to recognise the need to assist the investment bank with its mandate to be able to put that support at the disposal of people – and that has been extremely successful. we need your help to do more for the eib and also for the ebrd, both of whom have been talking with me about the capacity that they have to alter their mandates and be able to put new support at the disposal of this neighbourhood – not, i hasten to add, at the expense of the work that they currently do, but in addition. with the european investment bank we know that we can mobilise a further eur 1 billion. just so you can appreciate the amount that that will give, the current work of the investment bank in egypt is eur 488 million. this would be able to allow them to double the investment at least and that would enable some of the big infrastructure projects which are clearly needed and wanted by the people to be set in place. we also want to see, through the paper, support with the training and exchange of students. these are young populations. one of the common factors across the southern neighbourhood is that it is a young society; those young people, some of them highly educated, some of them wanting further opportunities in education and training – we should respond to them as well, and we will be inviting member states to consider that and i invite the parliament to do so as well. the emergence of a vibrant civil society: meeting with civil society in tunisia, i met with people who had never been in the same room before because it had not been allowed. their willingness and desire to establish themselves more fully as ngos, as organisations able to work on issues of concern in their society and to hold their government to account, that is an extremely important part, as you know so well, of the development of this society. from that stems more inclusive governance: the ability of people to feel that they have a stake and a say in the governance of their society. of course, too, food security, a huge and growing issue in the region; further trade openings; the ability to get greater market access and mobility partnerships – all of these are included in the overall package that will be put to the european council. i stress again, as i have done before, we want to see this as an incentive-based approach enabling people to move quickly, but also to differentiate. these countries are all different and they are at pains to say, ‘please do not put us all together and see us as the same. we are different countries; we wish our societies to develop as differently as yours have. yes, there are similarities but our distinctive difference is something we wish to ensure that you respect and you work with’. we want to take an approach which says that we give more for more; that those partners, those countries who want to go further and faster with reforms, should be able to count on greater support from the european union. in the coming days and weeks, as we have already been doing, we will be discussing with our international partners how we can coordinate so that we do not overlap and so that we are able to respond more quickly. on 23 february i held a senior officials’ meeting with officials from the institutions, the world bank, the investment bank, the ebrd, the imf, but also senior officials from china, russia, from australia, from korea, from the 27 member states, from the united states and from arab countries. the purpose of that meeting was not to decide what we would do to these countries but to be ready to be able to offer support quickly. honourable members know that one of the criticisms which can be made about us is that sometimes we take a long time to respond. i want us to be ready and my conversations with, particularly, the arab league and with the countries concerned have been aimed at making it really clear that my purpose is to make sure we are ready to be able to respond and that that response is coordinated and effective and uses the best that we have available, not only in europe but across the world. after the foreign ministers meet tomorrow, and the european council meets on friday, the nato meeting i will attend tomorrow and then the informal foreign ministers’ meeting over the weekend in hungary, i will then fly to cairo to meet with amr moussa, the arab league and to debrief all of them on what has happened in our discussions and also to meet a new egyptian foreign minister whom i have already spoken to. but, colleagues, i know there is a specific desire to talk about libya so, having given that backdrop of the work we are doing, let me move on to the issues that concern us all in libya. i see two immediate priorities: first of all to address the humanitarian crisis and assist with the evacuation, and second to make sure the violence stops and that those who perpetrate that violence are held to account. on the humanitarian aid side we have moved quickly. the commission has increased its assistance to eur 30 million; my colleague commissioner kristalina georgieva went to the tunisian-libyan border last week to look at what was happening and to make sure that our engagement was working well. we have also of course been in touch with the un on a constant basis to coordinate our activities and member states have allocated important resources to tackle what is an immense challenge posed by the continuous flow of people, including through frontex. on the evacuation of eu citizens, the external action service has been instrumental in making sure that we have a rapid exchange of information and most effective use of our resources. together with the presidency, i activated the eu civil protection mechanism on 23 february to help facilitate the evacuation of eu citizens. getting information in real time, as honourable members know, is a challenge but we needed to make the right choices and so at my request agostino miozzo, the eeas managing director for crisis response, travelled to tripoli on sunday and monday to get an assessment of what is happening on the ground. he met with officials, he met with ambassadors, in a situation which he described to me as calm but extremely tense. our european ambassadors welcomed the chance to talk in detail and to feed directly into our work their analysis of what is happening on the ground which, combined with contacts that we are making everywhere, helps us to establish a clearer picture of the situation. of course we focused a lot of our efforts initially on the evacuation of european citizens and we have to show solidarity with tunisia, which is bearing the brunt of the evacuation of so many people, especially egyptians who are ending up on the tunisian border and need to be brought to egypt. honourable members know that there are about one million egyptians in libya, and about one a half to two million people from the african countries that surround libya who are currently there, and we know from what we heard is happening in tripoli that there are about two to three thousand african people at the airport who are waiting to see how they are going to leave. we have to be ready though to step up our support for the libyan people. as i have said, this is a very fluid situation and we have to read it very carefully. i have asked my services, therefore, on a prudent planning basis, to look at a possible csdp engagement; that engagement would be to support current evacuation and humanitarian efforts. as always with any csdp options, this needs to be very carefully analysed and we will need proper answers on questions of mandate, resources and objectives. that work, i can tell you, is ongoing this week. dealing effectively with the humanitarian crisis is fundamental, ending the violence is a prerequisite to everything else. that is why i am pleased that the international community as a whole, through the un security council, has made its position clear: that the violence is unacceptable; it must stop and people should be held to account. i am glad that agreement was found in new york on the european demand to include a referral to the prosecutor of the international criminal court. this was a european initiative and they have already started preliminary investigations into alleged war crimes. not surprisingly, we are working very closely with our partners: with the un, with nato, with the usa, with turkey, with the arab league and with many, many other countries with whom we are in daily contact. we talk with them about all of the issues in the southern neighbourhood but, especially, to make sure that we are collaborating effectively on the approach that we take in our southern neighbourhood and, as i have said, that includes all our partners. we have, as you would expect me to say, our own responsibility. we immediately suspended the negotiations of the eu-libya framework agreement, together with all cooperation of a technical nature. (applause) we started preparatory work on restrictive measures ahead of the un security council. in addition to the un sanctions, we adopted on 28 february further restrictive measures: we have an embargo on equipment which could be used for internal repression and autonomous designations under the travel restrictions and assets freeze. we are now in the process of adding several entities controlled by gaddafi and his closest associates to that list. honourable members, we will remain at the forefront of the international efforts to restore peace and stability in libya. once we get an end to the violence, we have to work to support the emergence of a new libya with democratically chosen leaders and where people’s rights are respected. in line with what i have said from the very beginning: we will not be dictating outcomes but supporting pluralism, accountability, deep democracy and shared prosperity. by their nature, crises are a test of our policies, our resources and our abilities to respond in real time and the events in the southern neighbourhood represent an enormous challenge for the european union. i believe as vice-president of the commission that how we respond will define this commission for years to come. so i look to the european parliament and i need your support, because it is only our collective effort that is going to help to bring the european union together, to confirm a strong position. we cannot afford to think small; we cannot afford to let inflexibility get in our way. we can and we have to respond in a strategic and united way. but i believe that if we do, we can make a real difference, supporting the people in the region who are asking for our support, but supporting them as they shape their own future. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the european union is faced with a double frustration in the libyan crisis: between what is desirable, namely that a criminal regime, which wants to die by killing, disappears as soon as possible, and what is possible. and if we are to be honest, mr president, we must admit that the european union, despite all its efforts, has not met the expectations of our citizens. and this is not a criticism, mrs ashton, it's a question of competence. we have acted quickly and well within our powers by incorporating the european union into un security council resolution 1970. but we're not a military union. we aspire to be a political union and we are a still nascent player on the international scene. that is why, mr president, while we are holding this debate, while the united nations human rights council is meeting and tomorrow the council of ministers of defence, the council of foreign ministers and the european council are meeting, people are still dying in libya. and in the face of this question we have to ask ourselves what we can do. can we stand by and watch the slaughter of innocent civilians? should we stand by in the face of the 'somalization' of libya and a new slow motion decision by the un security council? the european council must send a clear and well-defined message in one direction only: 'the gaddafi regime must end now'. and to do that, this message must be accompanied by a series of increasing pressure measures: firstly, mr president, the no-fly zone, the neutralisation of mr gaddafi's communications - and i think we should congratulate the alde group for bringing the representatives of the libyan opposition to the european parliament - and, of course, international consultation, particularly with the african union and also with the arab league. that, mr president, is what the citizens expect of us and, of course, for that, mrs ashton, you have the full support of our political group.
mr president, mrs ashton, i think this debate shows that the whole of the european parliament is aware that this transformative crisis in north africa is putting european foreign policy to the test, not of its credibility, but of its viability. and so it is absolutely crucial that the european union is able to speak with a single, recognisable message to the international community. but i have a minute, and i want to use it to join the voices that have highlighted the importance of the humanitarian dimension of this transformative crisis, so that europe is able to anticipate the effects on the humanitarian front, on displaced people, on potential asylum seekers and refugees fleeing from a conflict zone to the nearest border, which is the european union. and that is why i want to stress the urgent need for the european union to complete the asylum package that is still outstanding; to be able to revise directive 2001/55/ec on measures to assist displaced persons in humanitarian emergencies and the mass influx of unforeseen migrants; to be able to give importance to the tools at its disposal: frontex and the european asylum support office; and to be able, above all, to include the human rights clause in its foreign policy, so that it is not just a verbose clause, but a condition of existence of the european union's foreign policy.
mr president, thousands of refugees and thousands of displaced persons. the solution to the emergency is evacuation. we need transport. they don't want to go to the european union, they want to go home - that's what mr guterres said. two million immigrants, one million egyptians, 80,000 from bangladesh. we must pay attention to the weakest of the weak: the eritreans, the somalis, the sub-saharan people mistaken for mercenaries, the palestinians. unhcr says it needs $160 million in three months, water, medicine, food, transportation. we expect a firm response from the union on friday. gaddafi cannot escape the international criminal justice system. crimes against humanity are mass attacks on the population. prosecutor luis moreno-ocampo is already acting. mr president, the european parliament must be there. we are also a democratic instrument of pressure and information to the free world. we need a mandate from this house for a delegation from parliament to be in the refugee camps of the unhcr, the red cross and the red crescent.
i would like to stress the importance of the consultation which this parliament has to carry out. this is the first reform of the treaty since the adoption and entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this is a step in the process of building the economic governance of the union and is probably the first example of possible future treaty reforms to incorporate some of the elements of that economic governance. parliament, in my view, must do what is necessary, which is to set up this mechanism, to help to get this financial stability mechanism into operation and, at the same time, it must ensure that what is necessary is done in the best possible way, in the most desirable way. we need a mechanism which is stable, which means that it can prevent, that it can discourage speculation and that it can respond at the right time; a secure mechanism, which has the legal basis which the transitional mechanism does not have today, and a mechanism with a sufficient economic dimension. so yes, we are in favour of the simplified procedure, although we would like it to be an exceptional step, reforms to be carried out in a different way, community elements to be incorporated into intergovernmental cooperation, with the commission playing a key role, and finally parliament to be held accountable. finally, after the adoption of our report by the committee on constitutional affairs, we hope that the council will be sensitive to what we are asking of it, because we believe that it will strengthen this permanent stability mechanism and thus contribute to the economic governance of the union.
mr president, i would like to express my agreement with the views of the members who spoke here this morning and who insist on respect for parliament and the commission. my modest vote in favour will therefore depend on the european council's willingness to accept the role of the institutions mentioned. the new mechanism we are talking about must be an important component of economic governance, led by a european union capable of ensuring coherence between the common economic policy, which must set clear, precise and limited objectives, and this instrument of stability. in other words, we must avoid at all costs that this effort we are engaged in ends up on the intergovernmental track, which is a dead-end track or the track of the dominance of a few states, because all that would frustrate the reform. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, we shall not be voting on the brok-gualtieri report this morning. we shall do so at the brussels session. we shall do so in order to give mr brok and mr gualtieri time to negotiate with the european council the conditions for the application of article 136. we do this because, as mr leinen has said, this european parliament is also the guardian of the treaties, and because we want the euro to work with the participation of all, with the commitment of all, and to be, in the end, effective, mr president. that's what we're asking for. this is not a quarrel between institutions. it is not about gaining power for parliament. the result, the resulting mechanism, must be effective for the citizens of europe.
i voted in favour of this initiative, mr president, because the european union must make a firm commitment to industrial policy and face the risks of the crisis, competition from third countries and globalisation with increased public funding, which will be reflected in the future framework programme. what's the point? for r&d activities to boost private investment and foster public-private partnerships. this will enable us to create skilled employment. but it is necessary to take advantage of the scientific and technological expertise of the regions, which have developed innovation networks and competitiveness clusters, and which are more innovative and more efficient than their countries. that is the case of euskadi, the basque country. take advantage of the knowledge of the regions. we must not turn our backs on this european reality, because in the face of the threats we face today, its recognition and inclusion will enable us to consolidate our leadership in industrial policy.
in writing. − as one of the co-signatories of the key amendment, i am glad it has been adopted. the calendar of part-sessions for 2012 should now be amended as follows: delete the part-session proposed for week 40 (1 to 4 october); split the october ii part-session (22 to 25 october) into two separate part-sessions: part-session 1: 22 and 23 october; part-session 2: 25 and 26 october.
in writing. − as one of the co-signatories of the key amendment, i am glad it has been adopted. the calendar of part-sessions for 2013 should now be amended as follows: delete the part-session proposed for week 40 (30 sep to 3 oct); split the october ii part-session (21 to 24 october) into two separate part-sessions: part-session 1: 21 and 22 october; part-session 2: 24 and 25 october.
in writing. − i voted in favour even if i would have preferred that some amendments concerning the need for the ep to reduce its number of places of work to one did not pass.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the eu to create a european strategy for the atlantic region. european territorial cooperation can make a major contribution to intensifying the integration process within the atlantic region through greater involvement of civil society in the decision-making process and the implementation of concrete actions. the text calls on the eu to address maritime and territorial issues in this strategy, insists that cooperation under this strategy should be based primarily on the needs of stakeholders and therefore considers that the policy priorities addressed should be the subject of consensus decisions.
in writing. − as was the case in the resolution on an eu strategy for the danube region adopted by the ep last month, the present draft resolution stresses that the major added value of eu macro-regional strategies is seen in multi-level cooperation, coordination and better strategic investment of available funding, and not in the additional allocation of resources. the draft resolution underlines the conclusions of the swedish presidency regarding no new institutions, no new legislation and no new budgets. furthermore, regi wanted this strategy to work according to a bottom-up approach and to involve all stakeholders (regional and local public authorities, member states, eu, private stakeholders and civil society organizations, including the interregional networks and organisations concerned) in its design and implementation. from the greens/efa point of view, we proposed amendments on the development of marine energy, the prevention and fighting of marine pollution by ships and the development of short-sea shipping and highways of the sea, that were all adopted.
in writing. - as a galician and co-signer of this initiative, i support an ambitious strategy for the atlantic region. i call on the commission to come forward with a proposal by june 2011 with the priority of sustainable growth and jobs in line with the europe 2020 strategy. the macro-region has a maritime space, fragile and peripheral, so the strategy requires an integrated, transversal and territorial approach that protects the environment, promotes accessibility, mobility and connectivity and promotes cohesion in all its dimensions. the strategy should also facilitate synergies between the various eu policies e.g. tourism, motorways of the sea and trans-european transport networks, the common fisheries policy, energy policy, and particularly marine energy, climate change measures, the framework programme for research and development, multilingualism and, in general, the new policies to be launched from 2014 onwards and between all relevant policies developed by the different responsible authorities in their field. they should be developed, adopted and implemented in a transparent and fair manner through the cooperation of all public institutions and the partnership with the private sector and civil society organisations.
in writing. - i am in favour of turkey's accession to the eu and welcome the progress the country has made for the benefit of its citizens. but at the same time, it should be noted that in order for turkey to become an eu member state, it has to meet the copenhagen criteria and obligations towards the eu itself and its member states, like any other candidate country. turkey must respect international law and must do much more on the kurdish question, the recognition of the armenian genocide or normalization with its neighbours. in this sense, turkey must withdraw its occupation troops from the republic of cyprus.
in writing. − notwithstanding the progress mentioned during the debate, and the ‘opening’, problems remain in relation to women, minorities, freedom of opinion and the press, social imbalances, poverty, rights of the child, education, an independent judiciary and army intervention in politics. the eu commission notes that despite legislative advances, ‘however, senior members of the armed forces have made a number of statements going beyond their remit, in particular on judicial issues’. it reached the following conclusion regarding the judiciary: ‘investigations in some high-profile cases continued to raise concerns. this points to the need to improve the work of the police and the gendarmerie but, also, the working relationship between the police and the gendarmerie on the one hand and the judiciary on the other’.
in writing. - i am in favour of opening the accession talks with montenegro, as i am in principle in favour of enlargement. however, i could not vote in favour of this resolution because the commission is asking montenegro to make a number of reforms in line with the eu's neoliberal policies, such as privatising the public sector or adapting the education system to the bologna process. i have therefore not voted in favour of the report and i have abstained.
in writing. − in general, this report is good and well balanced. the report addresses all relevant policy fields. montenegro, which became a candidate country in december 2010, is still waiting for negotiations to start. the report criticises this fact in paragraph 2: ‘regrets the decoupling of candidate status from the right to open negotiations and stresses that the decision to start them should not be unduly or unreasonably postponed’. the rapporteur expects negotiations to start after the 2011 progress report. some interesting points are on ipa (paragraph 5), corruption (paragraph 8), freedom of information (paragraph 10), organised crime (paragraph 14) and anti-discrimination (paragraphs 17-22). many paragraphs are devoted to the issue of anti-discrimination and touch on all relevant aspects such as roma, ashkali, egyptians (paragraphs 17 and 22), lgbt (paragraph 17), women and domestic violence (paragraphs 17-19), ethnic issues (paragraph 21) and civil society (paragraphs 5, 10, 23, 24 and 32). in general the report is very positive on the role of cso and devotes many paragraphs to the issue. the most important are paragraphs 23, 24 and 32. in these paragraphs the report ‘reiterates the importance of active and independent civil society organisations for democracy’ and ‘encourages the montenegrin government to have close collaboration and regular dialogue with ngos’.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for the integration of the roma. the text points to the need to develop an eu-wide strategy for the protection and integration of roma, while urging member states to adopt and strengthen effective anti-discrimination legislation and protection measures against discrimination, including multiple discrimination, in all areas of life, guaranteeing, protecting and promoting fundamental rights, equality and non-discrimination and the right to free movement, including awareness-raising activities targeting both roma and non-roma, in order to eliminate discriminatory obstacles.
in writing. − parliament’s járóka report on the eu strategy for roma inclusion was voted on in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on 14 february, with the majority of the greens/efa amendments accepted by the rapporteur or included in the compromise amendments, and many of the group’s red lines to the issue included: namely, the roma inclusion strategy should be guided by an insider’s approach: designed by roma for roma which means empowerment of roma, inclusion in the decision-making process, hiring of roma staff/mediators in key positions at local, national, eu level; stop unlawful practices that continue with eu member state impunity: violence against roma, violations of the right to free movement, increasing activity of extremist political parties, politicians, and policies, systemic segregation of romany children in education, widespread residential segregation of roma, trafficking in human beings, denial of access to healthcare and social services, coercive sterilisation of romany women.
in writing. − parliament has today supported a set of actions to promote the competitiveness of european industry. i welcome the recognition that, to face the crisis and globalisation challenges, energy and resource efficiency must be the basis for european industrial renewal. sustainability has to be recognised as a central aspect of the so-called ‘competitiveness proofing’ and ‘fitness checks’ to be implemented by the commission as part of its better regulation initiatives. the report rightfully calls for closed-loop industrial systems, greater resource productivity, durability and re-use, recycling and remanufacturing. the report also calls for instruments to foster the development and growth of eco-innovative smes, as well as the development of eco-industrial parks. it is important to bring the eu’s industrial policy in line with its climate and energy policy objectives. the greens expect the commission to deliver on that challenge in its upcoming strategic initiatives, such as the resource efficiency strategy, the raw materials strategy and the small business act.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mrs ashton, i am very pleased that the high representative's approach is the dual approach of talking about human rights and the nuclear issue on virtually equal footing, because iran is an example to the contrary for the world and for the countries around it which, immersed in processes of democratic reform and guided by the legitimate aspirations of their peoples, see in iran exactly what they do not want for themselves, and this is what we denounce in the report which will probably be adopted tomorrow. firstly, a theocratic regime that subjugates its population and violates human rights, applying the death penalty - and i want to refer specifically to the case of zarah bahrami - nullifying women, persecuting homosexuals and repressing dissent. it is also a counterexample in the field of political freedoms. the repression of the protesters, which is taking place right now and since 2009, is absolutely unacceptable, as is the arrest of the leaders of the democratic opposition movement, whose immediate release i call for on behalf of my group, as well as the immediate release of the leaders musavi and karubi and their wives, and of all those detained for peacefully exercising their right to freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of assembly. iran is also a counter-example as a nuclear partner of the international community. a responsible attitude on the part of iran in this area and in the area of human rights, a different approach in the region vis-à-vis hamas and hezbollah, and a different rhetoric vis-à-vis israel would make iran a partner and a relevant player in the stabilisation of the region, which is another of the things we are calling for in this report. it is important, mrs ashton, that a european union delegation be opened in tehran, not only so that we can have a political dialogue with the iranian regime, but also with civil society. finally, i would like to thank mr belder for the cooperation he has had with the alternative rapporteurs so that we have been able to balance and make this report acceptable to the whole of the european parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 march at 12 noon.
the following is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the 16th session of the united nations human rights council (geneva, 28 february-25 march 2011).
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mrs ashton, you have made your debut in a world of turmoil, in a world of financial, food and energy crises, the result of a gamble to regulate the market. the truth is that you have a great difficulty precisely because this basic orientation, that the unregulated free market organizes our lives, has created a very serious human rights problem, both in the developed countries and in the impoverished countries. this is a problem we have and we haven't just solved, and there's no sign of a reorientation in this economic policy that is leading us to a dead end in the whole of humanity. i believe that this is a problem we must solve before any other, and secondly, the instrumentalisation of human rights by the european union, as well as our foreign and neighbourhood policy, which, given all that the revolutions in north africa are signifying, would merit a thorough reflection. we gave the impression - and you inherited that foreign policy - that we were more concerned with free trade than human rights. we have never applied article 2 of the association agreements, neither with tunisia nor with egypt, nor in the association agreements we wanted to sign with gaddafi or netanyahu or mohammed vi. that article has never been applied. it would seem that we do not care about the demand for strict respect for human rights through the association agreements. it is a pending matter and i hope that we will someday pass it in the house and in the european union.
i do not want to repeat things that my colleagues have said that i think are important, so i simply want to say that mrs ashton's participation in this council session, which has taken place at a particularly important time, has been good news. we hope that it will be a step forward for the european union to increase the coherence and visibility of its action, to add common positions on all relevant human rights issues and to build, in the council, the coalitions with countries and with civil and international societies necessary to make concrete progress, in the field of real change - as mrs ashton has pointed out in her speech - in the cause of human rights, and also for the european union to be able to affirm the universal character of human rights against any relativistic view and to achieve, finally, something that is within the reach of our contemporary generations, which is to achieve that, as in the past the universal abolition of slavery was achieved, we can see the universal abolition of the death penalty.
mr president, in the context of the debate we are having on the human rights situation and in connection with the previous report which has been discussed, i would like to ask you, mrs ashton, the following question: do you think that, in view of the circumstances in some countries in north africa and the region, it is appropriate at this time to open a delegation of the european union in iran?
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, again this was a very interesting and full debate, which has raised a large number of issues that honourable members feel very strongly about. firstly, i would like to thank all honourable members for the energy and passion with which they have conducted this debate. i reflect on the fact that it is two years since the publication of ms andrikienė’s report on the development of the un human rights council, including the role of the eu, and on the resolutions that have been passed since that report was produced. i would like to thank her for her comments about the work we are doing in the external action service and the beginnings of our work to build the new pieces of work on human rights. i am also very pleased to see that ms hautala will be going to the session of the council. i think it is extremely important, with her knowledge and expertise, that she is able to participate there. i also hope that she will back up the efforts that we have been making to try to ensure that the work of the council improves and increases. i hear the criticisms that are made of it. i think we have all been pushing hard with the review to try to make that review as strong as possible. it is certainly not quite where we would have wished it to be, but now that we have seen the transfer to new york of some of the discussions, we can continue to work there as well. this really is an area of work where parliamentarians working with us can make a significant difference. i have full confidence in ms hautala’s strength in pushing forward on that. i want to deal with some of the particular questions that have been asked of me. i will start with mr howitt’s, because he said that there were three in particular. regarding the democratic republic of the congo, we are in favour of a strong resolution and indeed we have said there ought to be a specific mandate now on this particular situation. on goldstone, we are trying to engage to find a consensual resolution. that is what we are doing at the present time. in pakistan we made a démarche on 5 march specifically on article 40, which is the point concerned. to those honourable members who specifically talked about freedom of religion and belief, let me first of all say that i do indeed talk about the terrible tragedies for christian communities anywhere in the world where these terrible tragedies occur. my general point is that we believe in the right of freedom of religion and belief, whatever that religion or belief might be in that context. it is important that we continue to make those statements as clearly as possible, when you see terrorism or attacks on any religions, including christianity. my team has just been meeting with a group of meps to talk further about what more we should do on this. i have already said that we plan to do something at this session of the human rights council specifically on this because it is so important. i apologise that i did not answer on camp ashraf. i intended to, but i turned the paper over too quickly. i think we have a total of 3 000 people – or perhaps 3 400, the numbers vary – and we are in weekly touch with the un who, as you know, are visiting the camp. they assure me that the basic needs are being met. there are really difficult issues, as the honourable member knows very well, in looking at what might be done around camp ashraf. i am very conscious of the very different opinions that we hear on this. however, the honourable gentleman is completely right that the significant part of this is to make sure that people’s rights are not violated and that we ensure humanitarian support is given. we do indeed – hence i know about the weekly reports. that is not by accident, it is because we are engaging on this issue and engaging with the government there to try to deal with that in the best possible way that we can. i also agree that it is now important to get a strong delegation in geneva. again mrs hautala raises specifically the fact that we have just appointed a new head of delegation. i talked with the team while i was in geneva. we have split the delegation in two so that one can concentrate on the issues, particularly of the world trade organisation, and the other can focus much more on the un agencies. in my conversations on this, i am also clear on the need to think better and more creatively about how we operate in geneva. we need to build alliances on human rights and to have the opportunity to talk with partners across the world where we can make common cause on some of the most important issues that concern us. i hope that we will be able to move forward on that over the coming weeks and months. if i might just finish with this, i was very taken by what mr salavrakos said when he said that human rights is a way of life. i think that is probably right. i describe it as being this simple: for human rights to apply to you, you simply have to be here and human. there are no other criteria that should apply. i think that in all that we do, it is really important that we do not forget that very simple basic principle. honourable members, there will be many issues upon which we disagree, many issues which create – as i witnessed – real passion and concern, but the ability to be able to debate those issues and the ability to put our strength of feeling on human rights at the core of what we think is absolutely essential. very finally, i have not made any decision about opening a delegation in iran. that is partly a resources question, but of course i will keep honourable members informed about that. meanwhile, i would like to thank everyone for this debate and to assure honourable members that i will do all i can to make the human rights council as effective as possible and – more important even than that – to represent the european parliament and the european union on issues of human rights as effectively as i possibly can.
mr president, i did not quite understand mrs ashton's reply. i do not know whether he has replied to me or whether he has said that the answer to the question i asked him about the desirability, in the context of respect for human rights, of opening a delegation of the european union in iran will be given at a later date or whether he has not answered me directly. i would like to insist on the question i asked you because i did not understand the answer.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, in response to mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, i was trying to say that there are two issues. one is resources, inevitably. the second is that this will require a decision to be made and for proposals to be put by me, obviously not least to the commission, on the opening of a delegation. there will be a discussion in the foreign affairs council and parliament will also take a view on this. i have had no discussions with anybody about doing this at the moment. as you well know, at the present time my engagement with iran is very much on the nuclear talks and the human rights issues.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 march at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to have today’s debate on the middle east peace process and i am extremely interested to hear from honourable members on this. i believe that achieving progress on the peace process is very urgent and very important. as we have discussed in this house earlier today, our southern neighbourhood and the wider middle east are changing fast. we have seen historic events in tunisia and egypt and ongoing violence in libya and we also know of protests which continue in yemen, bahrain and elsewhere. with the region in upheaval, some have said that it is not the time to focus on the stalled israeli-palestinian peace process, but i believe the opposite to be true. at this moment it is even more important to try to put an end to this conflict, as a key contribution towards a peaceful and stable region. this is the message which i have delivered in my visits to the region in january and in february and in my discussions with president abbas and prime minister netanyahu: for the greater security of both peoples an agreement should be found. i also believe the european union has an important role in this process. the foreign affairs council set out its position very clearly, most recently in our council conclusions in december. the only viable choice is a negotiated outcome on all final status issues. if there is to be genuine peace, there has to be a solution to the status of jerusalem as the future capital of two states, with the state of israel and an independent, democratic, contiguous and viable state of palestine living side by side in peace and security. the eu position on settlements is clear: settlements are illegal, they constitute an obstacle to peace and they threaten to make a two-state solution impossible. i chaired the quartet meeting in munich on 5 february. the eu went into this meeting seeking an invigorated quartet and i think we managed to achieve that. together with our partners from the un, from the us and russia, we agreed on an ambitious schedule. last week quartet envoys met in brussels, under the chairmanship of helga schmid, the political director and deputy secretary-general of the eas, with, for the first time, the palestinian negotiators. tomorrow the quartet envoys will meet the israeli negotiators for the first time. the envoys are now moving to prepare the next principal meetings when ban ki-moon, the russian foreign minister lavrov, secretary clinton and i will meet again. but, if there is to be a two-state solution, both states must be viable. for that reason it is important that the eu is the largest contributor to the palestinians. we remain committed to continuing to support their state-building plan and its implementation, both politically and financially. in this regard we have already approved a first package of eur 100 million out of the eur 300 million earmarked for 2011. funds for institution-building have been further increased to reinforce palestinian capacities on their way to statehood. this work is crucial for the establishment of a future state of palestine and crucial to finding a way to a two-state solution. as honourable members know, i have twice visited gaza and, after meeting with business, with civil society and especially with many children, we have proposed a comprehensive package of support, focusing on infrastructure, equipment and training for the kerem shalom crossing. this is specifically to support greater movement of goods, allowing exports to promote economic recovery. in both my visits to gaza i called for a greater opportunity for the people there to develop the economy and provide jobs and a future for their children. i also called and continue to call for the release of gilad shalit. on 13 april i will host the ad hoc liaison committee led by norway; we are in discussion on the possibilities of a donor conference in june. honourable members will know that on 22 february there was a useful and productive exchange of views with israel at the association council, where the middle east peace process was discussed, along with other regional issues, particularly of course the changes occurring in the region. the discussions included our bilateral relations and how better cooperation can go forward on the current action plan and in the context of the desire for a solution. i also welcome the willingness of the israelis to meet with the quartet envoys tomorrow, but i urge israel to make positive moves now to find a solution and to promote and support moves towards direct talks. as i said, i believe that this is in the interest of both peoples in that region and i believe prime minister netanyahu has a vital role in helping to get the talks moving. honourable members, i very much look forward to hearing from you so i will pause at this point. i believe all of us in this house share the desire to see this conflict finally end and both parties find a solution for the stability of the people of israel and for the people of palestine, which will also help enhance the stability and security of the region. i urge and hope that this will happen soon.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam high representative and vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, you were right to say, mrs ashton, that the situation on the southern shore of the mediterranean is distracting attention from the middle east conflict and the peace process, which has been dragging on for almost three decades and seems to have entered a stagnating phase. in this context things are happening - your visit shows us that - the process is being affected by the general situation in the region and, somewhat on the basis of your visit, i would like to ask you some questions to get your opinion. this morning we discussed the difficulties in the security council in obtaining a further resolution on the imposition of a no-fly zone over libya. i would like you to assess to what extent the veto recently issued to condemn settlements in palestinian territory has affected the peace process and the credibility of a key player, and to what extent this non-decision by the security council affects the credibility of the obama administration to continue this process. secondly, how do you assess the decision of the palestinian national authority to call for presidential and parliamentary elections before september and the refusal of hamas to participate in these elections? and finally, how do you assess the resignation of the palestinian chief negotiator after the leak of the wikileaks documents, the reshuffling of the palestinian authority government, and to what extent have these leaks affected the palestinian side, the israeli government or, as a whole, mrs ashton, both sides?
mr president, we all want, as the quartet declared in munich, to see the israeli-palestinian negotiations concluded in september 2011 and to see a two-state solution achieved in peace and security. unfortunately, the prospects are not good. only six months left and no negotiations, blocked by the settlement problem. ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that wasting time is in the interest of israel or the solution. on the one hand, i fear that it will become increasingly difficult to find in palestine moderate leaders with sufficient political support to conclude agreements - which will not be easy - with israel. on the other hand, if settlements continue, it will become increasingly difficult to achieve a truly viable palestinian state. mrs ashton, i agree with you that the peace process must not be parked by the political transformations that the region is undergoing. if these developments lead, as we all hope, to democratic regimes responsive to the aspirations of their peoples, the climate in the region will be even less favourable to israel. israel may have to face a higher level of isolation and pressure from some of the arab neighbouring states. in conclusion, it is in everyone's interest, including israel's, to find a solution as soon as possible. i therefore hope that the european union will actively contribute to the relaunch of the peace process, in close coordination with the united states and the rest of the quartet. i hope, mrs ashton, that a high-level meeting of the quartet will take place this march, as was planned in the munich declaration. can you confirm this end?
the first item on the agenda is the commission statement on respect for national wage and pension arrangements.
i want to tell you all that if you speed up the pace of your speeches too much, the interpreters have a hard time following you. and as the person responsible for multilingualism, i would like to point out that we in the bureau of parliament are considering a different system from the one we have now. now, the interpreters are telling the president that they can't keep up, but the president has a hard time interrupting you. the system we are considering is that each of you, in your seat, has a light to warn you that the interpreters cannot follow you, so that the president does not have to interrupt you, but you have to know about it directly.
forgive me, mr de rossa, you know how much i love you and how much i care for you, but we cannot reopen this debate. the commission's opinion is worthy of respect, as is the commissioner's opinion on this matter, and everyone has to face up to his contradictions. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters, by mr joão ferreira, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000044/2011 - b7-0201/2011).
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank you for the many contributions to the debate. wherever the competence of my colleague mrs georgieva has been directly raised, we will take the liberty of giving you written answers, for example on the state of play of the talks and negotiations with russia on the question of information and monitoring. i can take this opportunity, however, because the european solidarity fund falls within my remit, to tell you that this fund is an instrument which was created seven or eight years ago and which is to be financed outside the budget. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. i can tell you that the signature and payment will be made within the next 14 days. the delay was also due to the fact that the member state provided some information very late. this too must be taken into account. we must also be able to prove and verify what the funds were actually used for. nevertheless, the structure of the solidarity fund should also be further developed. there are also internal considerations in the commission. the question of drought assessment is openly admitted relatively difficult to classify. the question of technological disasters is different. these issues need to be reassessed in the light of the experience gained in recent years. as regards the resources allocated, for example in the area of the structural funds, a total of eur 7.5 billion is available in the current financial period for risk prevention and corresponding environmental protection measures throughout europe. some 20% of this has already been allocated to specific projects. as members of parliament from one constituency or country, you know as well as i do that there are often administrative problems between regions and member states, because it is not clear who is responsible for what. in practice, this often leads to delays in the implementation of projects. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. finally, i would like to inform you that we are indeed planning to table a legislative proposal by the end of the year on how we can be more concerted in monitoring and responding to disasters across europe. i thank you again for your commitment to this issue, for your continuing to follow the agenda and i ask you to continue - and i conclude - to pay such close attention to the implementation and use of the financial resources which are in principle available in the member states.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. - i voted in favour of resolution b7-0191/2011 because i believe that the new hungarian media law does not adequately guarantee freedom of expression and pluralism and is counterproductive to the existence of real pluralism in the public sphere. the hungarian authorities must effectively guarantee media freedom and pluralism and must therefore withdraw the law or substantially amend it on the basis of the observations and proposals of the osce, the council of europe commissioner for human rights and the council of ministers, as well as the case law of the european court of human rights, and through an open and transparent debate involving all stakeholders, ngos and citizens.
in writing. − this law has effectively been designed with the intention of restricting media activities in hungary and limiting critical scrutiny of the government, as part of wider restrictions on pluralism in hungary. this is in direct conflict with the core principles of the eu, as set out in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. the commission and the council must continue to push for the complete overhaul or withdrawal of the law on this basis. parliament has made it clear that the commission should not simply roll over and give in to the hungarian government on this crucial issue. the hungarian media law must also be seen as just the latest attempt to limit media freedom in europe. it highlights the urgent need for the commission to come forward with robust legislative proposals for upholding this core eu value.
in writing. - i voted against the ep's joint resolution on libya because it calls for the creation of a no-fly zone over the country, which is the first step towards military intervention. we cannot in any way endorse a military solution to the libyan crisis or any other crisis. we were very critical of the military interventions in iraq and afghanistan and we cannot make the same mistake. the examples of these two countries should teach us that violence only breeds more violence, which ends up having devastating consequences for the civilian population. in the case of libya, i condemn the violence that gaddafi is inflicting on his people and i stand in solidarity with the protest movements of the population. but i am of the opinion that the solution in libya must be achieved through the cessation of violence and the diplomatic path.
in writing. − i see paragraphs 10 and 11 (as amended) as being especially important in this text: ‘10. stresses that the eu and its member states must uphold the responsibility to protect, in order to save libyan civilians from large-scale armed attacks; thus, no option foreseen in the un charter is to be ruled out; calls on the hr/vp and the member states to stand ready for a decision in the unsc on further measures, including the possibility of a no-fly zone aimed at preventing the regime from targeting the population; underlines that any measures enacted by the eu and its member states should be in compliance with a un mandate and seek coordination with the arab league and the african union, encouraging both organisations to steer international efforts; 11. calls on the hr/vp to establish relations with the interim transitional national council and to start the process to make them official so as to encourage transition towards democracy, ensuring the involvement of a wide spectrum of representatives of libyan society and to empower women and minorities in the transitional process, and to support it in the liberated area so as to relieve the population and to meet its basic humanitarian needs, including medical assistance.’
in writing. - although the text of the report has been slightly improved by some amendments, i voted against it because it advocates a policy of sanctions which, in my view, will not improve the situation of the iranians, but the opposite. in my view, the european parliament's report should reduce rather than increase tension, because a situation of diplomatic exhaustion would mean aggravating the already complicated situation of the iranian people. in my view, threats to iran by the international community are not the way to find a reasonable compromise in the nuclear programme controversy. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − this is the first report on iran in parliament since the gahler report in 2001. since all negotiations on agreements between the eu and iran have been on hold for years, the only way for parliament to express a more in-depth position on this country is via an own-initiative report, which was initiated through a green proposal. the efd was given the task. 4 political groups (greens, s&d, alde and gue) formulated joint amendments to the draft which were to a large degree adopted, albeit by a slight majority. important issues are: eu contacts with iran (paragraph 32) where, as regards the background of the controversy over whether the ep’s iran delegation should be allowed to travel to iran, the text now calls – contrary to the wishes of the rapporteur – for contacts with a broad range of actors, without making a direct reference to the delegation; sanctions (paragraph 42), where the text calls for targeted sanctions on the main human rights offenders – so far there are only sanctions on persons linked to the nuclear dossier; and the opening of an eu embassy in tehran – in parallel with almost all member states that have a representation in the country.
in writing. - i regret that i was unable to vote in favour of this ep resolution on the priorities for the 16th session of the un human rights council, as it sets out a number of points with which i do not agree. the resolution calls for coordination with the united states in the field of human rights, welcomes the appointment of the moroccan co-facilitator in the un human rights council and encourages the eu to maintain 'common positions' for certain countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i think that is a sufficient reason not to vote in favour of this resolution, and that is why i have abstained.
in writing. − a good report where, among other things, parliament welcomes the fact that the agenda of the 16th regular session includes reports on the ‘rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities’, and on the ‘promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism’, as well as extensive meetings on the rights of the child; welcomes also this year’s nominations of special rapporteurs on these key topics, and takes note of the reports to be presented by the special rapporteurs on torture and other cruel inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, on freedom of religion or belief, and on the situation of human rights defenders; calls on the eu member states to contribute actively to these debates.
the author. - mr president, i think it is important to remember that this is not the first time that we have spoken about belarus in this parliament and, from this point of view, this resolution is important in that it clearly condemns the arrests and imprisonment of opposition members and the suppression of fundamental rights to which these people have been subjected. freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of movement in countries like belarus must be a priority and therefore an immediate and unconditional call for the release of these people, whom we can only call political prisoners, must be made. and secondly, i think it is also important to condemn - and this is what the resolution does - in the strongest, harshest, clearest, most firm way possible the use of torture in these countries, as in any other, even when it happens in the european union, and that unfortunately is also happening. but in a country with which we have increasingly close relations, with which we are strengthening our relations, the use of torture as a form of treatment in prisons, and especially when there is a political motivation behind it, is something that deserves all our rejection, all our condemnation. finally, i would also like to condemn in the strongest possible terms the sentence imposed on a young opposition activist for the sole fact of having participated in the demonstrations of 19 september. i think parliament is right to take a clear stand against these options and i demand that it be heard in some way.
mr president, cultural heritage is crucial to preserving identity. this is clear in europe, in china, and wherever, and the chinese authorities know this. however we have seen, for instance, how they have purposefully destroyed this heritage, which means this identity, in several places like tibet and now they are doing the same in the uyghur places like kashgar. this is why it is so important that we once again explain our position, and we urge the chinese government to stop the cultural destruction threatening kashgar’s architectural survival immediately and to carry out a comprehensive expert inquiry into culture-sensitive methods of renovation. this is not for nothing: the credibility of a government is also based on how it treats minorities. if china wants to be credible in the international sphere, it is important that minorities, such as the uyghurs, are treated properly, adequately respectfully and in line with human standards.
in writing. - i have rejected this report because it is not the solution to the problem of the economic crisis we are experiencing. the changes proposed pave the way for torpedoing social dialogue. i also disagree with the choice of the simplified procedure for the revision of the treaty. i am of the opinion that the simplified treaty revision procedure should be used to facilitate a thorough discussion of the proposed stability mechanism as well as other possible mechanisms such as the social progress clause. finally, we call on the member states to hold referendums on possible amendments to the treaty.
in writing. − according to the report voted today, the ep: 1. emphasises that the monetary policy for the member states whose currency is the euro is a union-exclusive competence and has been a community policy since the maastricht treaty; and2. stresses the importance of the euro for the european political and economic project, and underlines the importance of the commitment made by all member states in favour of the stability of the euro area and the sense of responsibility and solidarity they have shown. at the same time, it considers that it is essential to go beyond the temporary measures aiming at stabilising the euro area, and that the union should build up its economic governance, including by means of policies and instruments designed to promote sustainable growth in member states, and takes the view that the reinforcement of the sgp, the european semester, the eu 2020 strategy and the amendment of article136 tfeu concerning the stability mechanism are only a first step in that direction.
madam president, the crisis in north africa is putting to the test the mechanisms established in the treaty of lisbon. yesterday, in the high representative's appearance before the committee on foreign affairs, we stressed the positive aspects of the european union's action: mrs ashton's communication distinguishing between the short, medium and long term, the rapid implementation of un security council resolution 1970, the ability to interact with the arab league and the convening of the european council. but it is fair to point out here today that there are still questions in the minds of european public opinion and therefore of our citizens. madam president-in-office of the council, mr verhofstadt is absolutely right. how is it possible that at this stage the four member states which are members of the united nations security council do not vote in the same way and do so in a different way? how is it possible that at this stage we are discussing whether the un resolution is being implemented by the european union, by nato or by the international coalition, when we are talking about the same resources coming from the same taxpayers, from the same ships and being implemented in the same theatre of operations? it is clear that we still have a lot to improve in terms of our capacity for coordination and a lot to improve in the decision-making process as well. there's a famous line from a movie that says "we'll always have paris". in this debate someone has said that the european union's response has been a hasty one. if it had not been for the courage, the determination and the consistency of france - and we must say this as it is - in recognising the rebels, sending the foreign minister to the security council, convening the summit of the elysée and implementing the resolution, madam president, gaddafi's troops would have already entered the city of benghazi.
the president of the council. - thank you very much, mr. president. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the european parliament has asked the council three questions on the resettlement of refugees. i would like to thank the three interviewees for giving me a detailed account of the considerations that led them to formulate the questions. all three questions relate to the commission proposal to amend the decision establishing the european asylum fund for the period 2008-2013 with a view to establishing a common union resettlement programme. i think that this debate shows that the european parliament has a heart for people in need. first of all, i would like to thank the honourable members for their very strong interest in the situation of refugees. and as mr tavares has said, coming from hungary in 1956, as a legacy of the revolution and a commitment to it, it is the moral obligation of the hungarian presidency to make progress on the common eu settlement programme. the crisis in north africa, to which many of you have referred, has shown the need for a well-functioning, uniform european asylum system. i agree with the european parliament that the union must take responsibility for the situation of refugees if it is to maintain its leading role in humanitarian aid. let me give you a very up-to-date update on the refugee situation at the libyan borders at this very moment. i was there in early march, on the tunisian-libyan border. at that time, there were a thousand refugees arriving every hour, most of them migrant workers, and the most pressing task was to get them home, to repatriate them. the most difficult of all was the fate of those who arrived without any papers, documents. they were taken care of by the international relief agencies present. their numbers have increased, and their repatriation, as it were, is not resolvable, so there is a resettlement system at play. today, yesterday and today, hungarian foreign minister jános martonyi is on the other side, that is, the libyan-egyptian border. the primary purpose of his visit was to learn about the refugee situation. he went to the border, met with the egyptian authorities there. the situation has changed now in this section, there has been no outflow from libya in that section of the border for three days. there are about 200 people who should be able to participate in the resettlement program. the others who have arrived so far are being evacuated by the egyptian authorities, with the help of the eu member states, and are therefore trying to get home. the minister is also meeting with the foreign minister of the provisional national council in benghazi. and also with the egyptian interior minister, specifically to review the refugee situation. as regards the common european asylum policy, i would like to stress that we are doing everything possible to ensure that, in line with the commitments made by the european council in the stockholm programme, a common policy and system is developed, based on the full application of the 1951 geneva convention relating to the status of refugees and other relevant international conventions. the hungarian presidency is committed to advancing the proposals contained in the asylum package. this is also indicated by the fact that, following the mandate given by the member states last week, we are ready to start informal trialogue on the qualification directive as soon as possible, in order to meet the target date of 2012. i would like to thank you again for the debate i had with you in january on this subject. i was still answering questions from the mps. i would also like to emphasise that the council, recognising the importance of resettlement as a lasting solution for refugees, welcomed the proposal for a decision establishing a common eu resettlement programme and the related commission communication, which was submitted by the commission back in september 2009. these initiatives follow the agreement reached by the european council in september 2008 on the european pact on immigration and asylum. in particular, to advance the resettlement of persons placed under the protection of the united nations high commissioner for refugees in the european union on a voluntary basis. as a concrete example, i would mention the council conclusions of july and november 2008, in which the member states of the union committed themselves to resettling iraqi refugees on their territory and were therefore encouraged to do so in those conclusions. in september 2009, the council began a detailed examination of the proposal to amend the decision establishing the european asylum fund. in the first half of 2010, several informal meetings with the european parliament took place. with a high degree of flexibility, the member states almost entirely accepted the european parliament's proposals with the common aim of creating a better, more flexible system, as proposed by the commission. as the members rightly pointed out in their questions, the council and the european parliament reached agreement on the political content of the decision as a result of those informal meetings. the council supported, for example, one of the main proposals of the parliament, namely the creation of a mechanism to encourage, inter alia, by financial means, new member states to join the resettlement programme. however, the council was unable to support the european parliament's proposal to adopt the union's annual common priorities for resettlement in accordance with article 290 of the treaty, by applying the procedure for delegated acts. the council and the commission share the same position on this. the programming cycle for the operation of the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows' imposes tight deadlines and effective planning can be ensured through implementing acts. the council also agreed with the commission that the setting of the annual priorities for resettlement is purely implementing, since it essentially implies applying the detailed rules contained in the decision to specific situations. it is regrettable that the council and the european parliament have not been able to reach agreement on the proposal at a level that would allow the establishment of common eu priorities for resettlement on an annual basis. but let's not forget that resettlement is already one of the activities eligible under the current european refugee fund for the period 2008-2013. it is true that the proposed amendments would provide for a slightly higher financial contribution for member states participating in the resettlement programme for the first time and would allow for the annual determination of the geographical areas designated for resettlement and the nationalities to be resettled. but member states are already entitled to a lump sum of eur 4000 for each person resettled who falls into one of the categories laid down in the relevant decision. in addition, there is no obstacle to the member states which have not yet taken part in the current programme also taking up resettlement activities. and i'm happy to inform you that hungary will be part of this program next year and is ready to participate in the resettlement program. finally, i would like to emphasise that the council is of course still ready to consider any proposal which offers a feasible and mutually acceptable solution to the outstanding issues in this case. the aim is to make the existing mechanism even more flexible and efficient, as proposed by the commission. i would like very much if this extremely important case would not become a prisoner of another legal interpretation issue. there are many issues where the problem of 'implementing act' versus 'delegated act' is a very important issue, and i would like to see positive progress on these issues under the hungarian presidency. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i think that no one will be surprised to hear me say again that solidarity with refugees and displaced persons must be an essential element of community policies in the fields of asylum and immigration. but it is not just a matter of showing solidarity with those who come from weak and disadvantaged societies, but also with those member states which, because of their geographical location, their culture or their language, are under greater pressure in this area. in contrast to those countries where the demand for protection and the arrival of immigrants are low intensity phenomena, there are many others which cannot cope alone with the pressure to which their borders are subjected on a daily basis. following the adoption by parliament of the reports on the commission communication on the union resettlement programme and the modification of the european refugee fund in may 2010, we are still waiting for the council to complete the co-decision procedure. the current pilot projects in ten member states are a small grain of sand compared to the distance we still have to travel. the southern member states are under great pressure, especially since the start of the popular movements in egypt and tunisia and the war in libya. lampedusa, with a population of 5 000, has received nearly 6 000 immigrants since the conflict began. the pilot projects mentioned are very insufficient and will do little to alleviate the pressure which is now affecting italy and malta but which will affect other mediterranean countries in the near future. the union as a whole must help these countries. it is imperative that the council overcome the obstacles which currently prevent the full development of a european resettlement programme and overcome the blocking minorities. mass population and immigrant movements affect the whole of the union and not just a part of it. i'm finished, mr president. i asked last week - and i repeat my request now - for the european parliament to be present at the libyan borders. it's not enough that ten comrades were in egypt last week. we must be the ones who have the capacity to assess the humanitarian situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem we are discussing is clearly a problem of public opinion. how do we convince member states that a common resettlement policy is better? the fact that a member state wishes to retain its sovereignty in this area does not prevent a community policy defining priorities and these priorities being reflected in the aid from the refugee fund. it is therefore urgent that this issue be unblocked, as there are many possible solutions. perhaps the council should consider this question. now, if the member states can receive funding from the fund without any conditions, then there will never be a common resettlement policy. the common asylum policy is therefore an outstanding issue that cannot be hidden and it is unwise and petty not to tackle a common strategy, which will only aggravate the consequences of this lack of response day by day. and it's not just a matter of values. the absence of coordination and common solidarity is more costly for the member states.
mrs reding, i am grateful to you for coming to this late-night plenary debate here in brussels to listen to the members of the european parliament and i would like to encourage you in your work to redefine european data protection standards and, in particular, in view of the commission's communication on data protection which you should present as a genuine opportunity to set the clock in the face of the technological revolution and the knowledge tools and the advances in european constitutional law, from the treaty of lisbon to the european charter of fundamental rights, the fundamental rights to privacy and all the rights attached to access, rectification and cancellation of personal data in accordance with the free expression of consent of european citizens, but also with international law. because we are talking here about a bilateral framework for negotiations between the european union and its member states and third countries, and in particular the united states. and here the messages have to be very clear: directives 2008/977 and 95/46/ec have to be updated, they have to be put in place on time. not only to be able to provide police and judicial cooperation with the united states in accordance with the technique of 'subpoenas' or with court orders that may affect fundamental rights, but to strengthen that free provision of consent, to know what data about our personality is held by third countries, is transferred to third countries, and how we can also put in place that right to rectify and delete data affecting privacy and personality and are subject to the automated processing of personal data. they are therefore subject to their treatment on the network. and i'm especially concerned about the rights of the child. because there are limitations on the ability of minors to act or to exercise their fundamental rights, and this requires information. not only the child, but the child's environment with regard to what are the techniques and tools for privacy protection in the network society. i would therefore like you to know that we are going to follow this discussion very closely, we are going to follow very closely this timetable for updating data protection rights and directives and, in particular, the negotiation of the bilateral tools with third countries and, above all, with the united states.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i share the legitimate concerns of this house when it comes to the protection of the private data of european citizens. because i share this concern, i have presented an initial analysis on how the reform of the 1995 directive could look, in order to answer the questions which have been raised today and which do not have a legal answer under european legislation as it stands. there is good news regarding relations with our american counterparts. on 16 march, the white house took a decisive step in announcing that it intends to work with congress to produce a privacy bill of rights. that is a huge change in the united states, and it could also help us in our efforts to conclude a general eu-us agreement on data privacy concerning police and judicial cooperation. i hope that we will be able to start the negotiations in this direction soon. i am counting on parliament to help with this endeavour and with the reform of the 1995 directive.
the president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the house. i thank you for your understanding, and for not disputing that a criminal case is pending and we cannot interfere with it from here, and in any case, the law in force at the time of the commission of the crime must be applied. i would like to inform you that the commitment of the hungarian presidency to data protection is best demonstrated by the adoption of a council conclusion on data protection, comprising some 50 points, at the home affairs and justice council in february. in connection with this debate, we have made two important requests to the commission. we have also stressed the importance of educating and informing citizens and the importance of data protection on the internet, and i am sure that, as the commissioner has indicated, the commission will take these into account when preparing its proposal. the council also fully agrees with the importance of modernising the legal framework and adapting it to technical progress. we are waiting for the commission to come forward with a proposal for a new data protection directive. we promised that the hungarian presidency would have little time left by june, but we will do everything we can to ensure that, and i am sure that the polish presidency will be equally committed to the request for data protection. we say, mr president, and i will end with this, that we do not have to choose between freedom and security, between data protection and data security, that both are possible together, and we aim to have such a data protection regulation in the european union.
the debate is closed.
the following is the report by andreas schwab, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on consumer rights (com (2008) 0614 - c6-0349/2008 - 2008/0196 (cod)) (a7-0038/2011).
mr president, there are still essential points to be improved, so we have to send the report back to committee. the parliamentary debate on this report does not end here. the original proposal was bad. this is what we were told by consumer associations at national and european level. i particularly appreciate the work of the consumers' union of asturias and its president, the tireless dacio alonso. we have succeeded in getting the general principle of maximum harmonization of the old article 4 rejected. it must be said quite loudly that maximum harmonization, by establishing the same protection in all member states, would mean a reduction in the protection of many consumers, since there is a greater tradition in various countries in the protection of consumer rights. i would like to stress, however, that it is essential to ensure that the list of abusive contractual clauses is not exhaustive, so that each member state can increase the number of clauses it considers unacceptable and invalid in consumer contracts, that the burden of proof is reversed on individual clauses, so that it is the traders who have to prove that clauses which depart from the generally established rules have been individually negotiated, that contractual clauses must be expressed in a clear and comprehensible way. we are still against the establishment of maximum harmonization in respect of unfair terms. the eurobarometer survey shows that 79% of traders believe that full harmonisation in this field will have little or no effect on their activities abroad.
mr president, it is a good thing to have a directive on consumer rights, to have a horizontal instrument that simplifies, summarises and complements the four existing directives. an internal market characterised by a high level of consumer protection is key to sustainable growth and employment. to achieve this in accordance with the treaty, member states should not be prevented from adopting measures which increase consumer protection, and full harmonisation should therefore be used only in those aspects which are necessary to achieve a consistent framework for cross-border transactions. to add value to it. there is broad agreement in the committee on economic and monetary affairs that financial services must be an integral part of this provision in order to make it truly horizontal and to ensure that it is linked to sectoral and community legislation, including national legislation, in such a way that there are no gaps and that it is subject to special criteria. this approach does not appear to be reflected satisfactorily in the current text and should therefore be improved before the final legislative vote. and progress is still to be made towards a european consumer charter in the field of financial services.
mr president, commissioner, let me first of all congratulate the rapporteur, mr schwab, and mrs gebhardt on the excellent work they have done. and a general thought. it is not a question of increasing protectionism but of not cutting back on rights which already exist in some of the member states. if we want and are going to achieve a genuine internal market for business-consumer relations, we must strike a balance between a high level of consumer protection and the defence of the competitiveness of businesses. this balance is achieved by agreeing on minimum harmonisation and by allowing member states to maintain or adopt additional rules to improve consumer protection. we cannot allow the adoption of a community standard to mean the loss of protection for many consumers and users. i welcome the fact that the negotiations in the european parliament have improved, but i would like to stress that the rights already established should not be curtailed.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the implementation of the directive on the quality of fuels, including an eu default value for oil sands and oil shale, by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000058/2011 b7-0209/2011).
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank parliament for the very clear message it has given here tonight. i think it is very clear – including the impatience and sense of urgency. mr schnellhardt said that we should act promptly and mr arsenis asked particularly, with regard to the timetable: when will this end? i am happy to say that we are talking about a rather short time now. there is the peer review where we are talking about weeks, then it has to come back after that to the commission, and there will then be the internal process. it will not end there but at least we will start to get it through to the next stage which is with the member states. so we are coming close but, as mrs hall was saying, this is absolutely not a discriminatory initiative, and i think you all understand why it makes sense to take care that its documentation is robust. that is what we have provided and we all know what the reasons are. one of the reasons is that it was not included from the very outset when this case started several years back. now we are doing this work and so we can bring it to an end. let me finish by saying that, when it comes to this default value for tar sands the overall delay in the implementation of the directive means that we could get the default value included now in the same sort of round as when we are implementing the directive as such. in that sense, when it comes to the default value for tar sands, we will be able to do it a bit quicker than some of us thought possible when we started this nine months ago. thank you for the very clear message. as i hope you realise, we are working very hard to bring this to an end.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by helmut scholz, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 732/2008 applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences for the period from 1 january 2009 to 31 december 2011 (com (2010) 0142 - c7-0135/2010 - 2010/0140 (cod)) (a7-0051/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, the serious accident at the fukushima plant has called into question the supposed revival of nuclear energy. for years, a widespread media campaign has tried to make us believe that nuclear power is the only solution to the energy supply and climate change problems that threaten our future. but nothing could be further from the truth. the four fundamental problems of nuclear energy - high costs, safety, waste and the risk of proliferation - which caused its failure in the 1980s, remain today without a satisfactory solution. for all this, it is necessary to enter a phase of progressive closure and dismantling of nuclear power stations, starting with those that have already had serious incidents - such as vandellós ii in catalonia and those that are already reaching the end of their useful life - and, at the same time, we must increase energy efficiency, responsible consumption and investment in renewable energy sources.
mr president, many experts are telling us that the next crisis may be energy and that, furthermore, we are either not doing the necessary work to avoid it or we are not doing it at the speed necessary to avoid it. this coming saturday, the world wide fund for nature is calling on all of us to make a small gesture for sustainability. many citizens will turn off the lights for an hour and many public administrations will do the same. but it's not enough. europe cannot continue to rely on energy sources that are not its own, that are far away, or that are unsafe. we need to help states build a new energy model in which renewable energy is at the heart of the new mix. and we also need to support awareness of new consumption patterns because, without a doubt, renewables and efficiency are the keys to future sustainability. finally, i would like to call on all the countries of the union to join this call, this will of five states, including spain, to increase the reduction of co2 emissions by up to 30%, because this would show that europe, in addition to being at the forefront of freedom and rights, is also at the forefront of its commitment to the sustainability of the planet.
this closes this spot.
the next item is the presentation of the report by mr dominique baudis, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on relations between the european union and the gulf cooperation council (2010/2233 (ini)) (a7-0042/2011).
member of the commission. − mr president, we are here this evening to discuss this parliament’s reports on the gulf cooperation council. i understand that some political groups would have preferred to have postponed the discussion so as to better reflect the strategic times the arab world is going through. indeed, at the time you started drafting no-one could have guessed what the world would be like today, nor what challenges the countries and people of the entire arab region would be facing. in line with our conviction that each country is different from the others, the european union is responding to different situations with different adapted responses. you heard cathy ashton yesterday on all these: whether tunisia, egypt, libya, yemen or bahrain, the european union is faced with many critical choices and decisions. the report we are discussing this evening is focused on the gulf cooperation council and its countries, some of which are also experiencing calls from their populations to take better account of their political, social and economic aspirations. gulf governments are responding in different ways: substantial financial packages to alleviate the most pressing and social needs, announcements for political reforms, ceding some legislative powers to elected bodies, or openness to comprehensive and inclusive national dialogues. but we have also seen violence. within the limits of our discussion tonight this is especially true of bahrain. we have been following this closely; cathy ashton has repeatedly stated her concern at reports of serious violence on the streets and at the signs of increasing sectarian tensions. she has also called on the security forces present in the country to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms. she has raised her voice many times in calling for dialogue as the only way forward. all of this has been done using a mix of public statements, which you have seen, and direct contacts with the authorities concerned. the question for us is: where does all this lead to? what should the eu do? how should we read your report against the backdrop of these events? yesterday cathy ashton noted she preferred engagement to isolation and i share that view. your report calls for more contacts and not less and i agree. as trade commissioner i would welcome better opportunities for exchanges between businesspeople. this is a time for us europeans to stand ready to foster more contacts with the populations of the gulf countries. it is also time for us europeans to stand ready to respond positively to any request we may get for europe to facilitate unprecedented dialogue leading to reforms. we should not shy away from defending human rights and fundamental freedoms, but we should not dictate or impose our models of democracy on others either. europe firmly believes that reforms must come from within. i believe this is right also with the countries of the gulf cooperation council. it is not for me to tell this parliament how to go about dealing with the report before it. what i believe is that we need to think in strategic terms, and for that dialogues and engagements are essential. the eu should stand ready to lend all its support to dialogue and reform processes in the region. we are ready to provide political support to reform, and also know-how and expertise to address more specific issues. we welcome any such opportunity but this can only happen if and when the countries in the region ask for our assistance. one final word on the free trade area with the gulf for which i am directly responsible. i trust that when the right circumstances on the ground materialise we will be able to proceed on the basis of a common eu determination to further trade relationship objectives in relation to the gulf cooperation council. needless to say stability is a necessary condition both for the political contacts between governments and citizens to be enforced, and for trade flows and business to operate effectively. thank you for your attention and i would more specifically thank the rapporteur, mr baudis.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
madam president, tomorrow marks the first anniversary of the signing of the second phase of the air services agreement between the european union and the united states after eight difficult rounds of negotiations. i think we should be particularly pleased - i am certainly particularly pleased - that it has been achieved under the spanish presidency and under the leadership of mr blanco, who has made important progress in the field of aviation, in the single sky or in the framework of relations for air traffic control with a social agreement. i also welcome the fact that parliament is using its new powers to approve this type of international agreement, particularly in the transport sector. in the agreement between the european union and the united states on air transport, this second phase involves the disappearance of the suspension clause which requires us to go ahead and improve those environmental aspects of business competition and protection of passenger rights with which we are not yet satisfied. for the first time, the social dimension is also included. i think this is absolutely essential and important, and it also makes it possible for the first time to preserve the rights of employees and the future application of ilo and oecd conventions. it also sets out, and i think this is important, clear lines for building mutual trust in security matters and we continue to call for the possibility of a single control. the establishment of this non-discriminatory basis, therefore, because it means better services for citizens and companies, because it generates economic and social benefits and also encourages fair competition, we believe that it is a good agreement, although, again, not perfect, since european ambition does not allow us to sit on this second phase. that is why it is necessary to monitor and exploit all the potential, both that of the joint committee, with new powers, and the possibilities open to the icao on the subject of sesar, etc. that is why we ask vice-president kallas to demand and monitor this agreement and, of course, to report to this parliament.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs balzani, for her flexibility. i say flexibility because the original idea was not to have this debate on budgetary guidelines. i think, however, that it is a good idea, because it sets out the priorities we are going to have throughout the budget negotiations in the coming months. i would like to make two fundamental points. the austerity. austerity is not a principle. it's a tool. it is an instrument for achieving a budget which is really credible and which does not lead us to what is happening in many countries: to spend beyond our means and then have very serious political problems when it comes to closing the budget. i also believe that we should not introduce into the annual budgetary procedure matters which are, in fact, part of a multiannual financial framework. and i am referring, for example, to the question of tax, fees, on financial transactions. that is within a much more global financial framework and to try to artificially introduce that debate into the annual budget will only lead us from the outset to a wrong strategy of negotiation with the council. we have had experience in the past year of what happens when we introduce into an annual budgetary procedure with a single reading measures or ideas which, at bottom, belong to a more global framework: failure, blockage and, in the end, finding ourselves - as we find ourselves today, in 2011 - with a level of payment appropriations which the commissioner knows perfectly well is not sufficient to cover the very short-term needs of the european union in the coming months.
in writing. − the text of the report is short. it says: ‘the european parliament, – having regard to the commission proposal to parliament and the council (com(2010)0649), – having regard to article 294(2) and article 207(2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, pursuant to which the commission submitted the proposal to parliament (c7-0364/2010), – having regard to article 294(3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, – having regard to rule 55 and 46(1) of its rules of procedure, – having regard to the report of the committee on international trade (a7-0041/2011), 1. adopts its position at first reading, taking over the commission proposal; 2. calls on the commission to refer the matter to parliament again if it intends to amend its proposal substantially or replace it with another text; 3. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the national parliaments’.
in writing. − the idea of a generalised system of preferences (gsp) goes back to 1968, when tariffs were much higher in general and when they were still seen as the main barrier to trade from developing to industrialised countries. the concept was initially proposed by the unctad as a development tool: industrialised countries should grant non-reciprocal trade preferences to developing countries, allowing them to generate revenue not via aid, but via international preferential trade. the european community started to apply this scheme in 1971. the first three-year scheme was implemented from 2006 to 2008. the second scheme is due to expire on 31 december 2011. the current scheme was adopted in 2008 under the consultation procedure. however, at that time, the referral arrived in parliament at very short notice. meaningful parliament involvement in the regulation was impossible. this should not happen again for the forthcoming regulation, in particular given parliament’s new competencies under the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this initiative because the aviation markets represent 60% of world traffic. the agreement will require changes in us legislation to bring about convergence of the rules preventing unfair competition. it will open up lines, offer operators and passengers better services and prices and help economic development that will create jobs in both the european union and the united states.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, extended the circumstances in which parliament’s consent is required for the conclusion of international agreements. air transport agreements now fall within this category because they cover a field to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies. previously, parliament was only consulted on such agreements. as a result, this protocol to amend the air transport agreement is subject to parliament's consent, whereas the initial agreement was concluded after consultation of parliament. the eu-us aviation markets, taken together, account for about 60% of world air traffic. opening the market to eu and us airlines on a non-discriminatory basis would offer passengers and freight operators improved services, in terms of both variety and cost, provide substantial economic benefits and create jobs. in addition, regulatory convergence could do much to promote fair competition, particularly with regard to state subsidies and social and environmental standards.
in writing. − in 2007, the council gave the commission a mandate to negotiate a global aviation agreement. that year, nine million people traveled between the u.s. and canada. the aim of the agreement was to create a single air transport market. this also required amendments to canadian legislation. full opening is being graduated, as is legislative adaptation, but it has already taken a step forward by removing restrictions on routes, the establishment of weekly flights or the freedom of airlines to enter into commercial agreements. despite the difficulties, i believe that we must continue to move towards the single market. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, extended the circumstances in which parliament’s consent was required for the conclusion of an international agreement. air agreements now fall within this category because they cover a field to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies. previously parliament had only been consulted on such agreements. although the eu and canada have long-standing economic and political ties, prior to the current agreement, aviation was the subject of bilateral agreements with 19 of the eu member states. many of these agreements were restrictive and did not offer full access to the respective markets. in november 2002, the european court of justice ruled that certain provisions in these bilateral agreements were incompatible with community law. the council therefore gave the commission a mandate, in october 2007, to negotiate a comprehensive aviation agreement in place of the existing bilateral agreements. in that year nine million people were travelling between the eu and canada. the eu-canada air transport agreement was initialled on 30 november 2008, endorsed by the eu-canada summit on 6 may 2009 and signed on 17-18 december 2009. the eu and canada also negotiated an agreement on air safety. this is the subject of a separate recommendation (a7-0298/2010).
in writing. - according to the court of justice, the bilateral agreements signed so far infringe eu law. it was therefore necessary to amend three articles in order to avoid discrimination between airlines and to prohibit actions which might be anti-competitive and, finally, to ensure that safety clauses are applied when a state exercises control over transport designated by another member state.
in writing. − international aviation relations between member states and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements. the eu court of justice ruled in 2002 that traditional designation clauses in member states’ bilateral air services agreements infringe eu law. they allow a third country to reject, withdraw or suspend the permissions or authorisations of an air carrier that has been designated by a member state but that is not substantially owned and effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. this was found to constitute discrimination against eu carriers established in the territory of a member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states, contrary to article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union which guarantees nationals of member states who have exercised their freedom of establishment the same treatment in the host member state as that accorded to nationals of that member state. there are also further issues, such as competition, where compliance with eu law should be ensured through amending or complementing existing provisions in bilateral air services agreements between member states and third countries.
in writing. − among the reasons to vote in favour of this text, one should mention the adoption of amendment 7a(new) that states the following: ‘calls on all member states in the gulf cooperation council to recognise a continuing popular movement for democratic reform within the wider region, and calls for the full engagement with emerging civil society groups to promote a process of genuine peaceful democratic transition, within their own countries, with partners in the region and with the full support of the eu.
in writing. − a 2012 budget under the auspices of enhanced european economic governance, the european semester mechanism and europe 2020 objectives to boost growth and employment 1. takes the view that the europe 2020 strategy should help europe recover from the crisis and come out stronger, through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth based on the five eu headline targets, namely promoting employment, improving the conditions for – and public spending on – innovation, research and development, meeting our climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through the reduction of poverty; recalls that the member states themselves have fully endorsed these five targets; 2. points out that some consistency must be ensured between achieving these objectives and the funding allocated to them at european and national level; insists that eu budgetary policy must be in line with this principle; takes the view that the european semester, as a new mechanism for enhanced european economic governance, should afford an opportunity to consider how best to deliver on these five headline targets;
in writing. − the directive as it stands excludes a lot of categories such as seasonal workers, intra-corporate transferees, refugees and posted workers, etc. i totally oppose the further segregation into categories of workers and the differential treatment granting some workers and their family members less rights than others. even if some of these categories are covered by other directives, the example of the commission proposal on seasonal workers shows that these directives are not sufficient in terms of rights. we should stand for a common framework for all workers, as it would unify the legislation in working places by avoiding fragmenting the workers’ situation with the risk of jeopardising the integration of migrants and the cohesion in the eu. even if very important issues such as the portability of pensions to third countries no longer being conditional on the existence of bilateral agreements have been won thanks to jean, i cannot help thinking that we should advocate the equal treatment and non discrimination of all workers in the eu. that is why i have abstained.
in writing. − we, the greens/efa, wanted to ensure minimum harmonisation for all eu consumers. this would allow member states to introduce or maintain higher levels of protection than the eu ‘average’. in addition, we wanted to ensure a high level of protection for all consumers. we were of the opinion that a good legislative proposal would be a good example to show citizens that the eu has their interests at its heart. following much hard negotiation and misunderstanding, we made good improvements to the text, notably the inclusion of digital content, the exclusion of health and social services, the inclusion of legal as well as natural persons and good provisions for withdrawal rights and passing of risk. however, we voted against in imco as the flaws remaining were too large. we could not accept a text that would mean a reduction in consumer protection for any eu citizen. the text was not fully subject to minimum harmonisation, and the text of individual articles was neither clear nor good enough to ensure that there would be no reduction in consumer protection for some eu citizens. after today’s vote in the ep, the text is back with the commission.
in writing. − following the ordinary legislative procedure: (first reading) the european parliament, – having regard to the commission proposal to parliament and the council (com(2010)0520), – having regard to article 294(2) and article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, pursuant to which the commission submitted the proposal to parliament (c7-0297/2010), – having regard to article 294(3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, – having regard to the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 8 december 2010(1), – having regard to rule 55 of its rules of procedure, – having regard to the report of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0039/2011), 1. adopts its position at first reading, taking over the commission proposal; 2. calls on the commission to refer the matter to parliament again if it intends to amend its proposal substantially or replace it with another text; 3. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the national parliaments.
in writing. - as a basque, i want to express my solidarity with the people of japan. to tell them that they have proved to be a great people by their attitude in the face of misfortune, by their way of facing the present and by the dignity shown in the face of the future. i want to express my condolences to the families of the dead and missing. europe must also continue to provide them with all the human and material aid they need when they are no longer in the news so that they can return to being what they were: a great country and a great people.
in writing. − i very much support this resolution that states: ‘1. expresses its most complete solidarity with the japanese people and government and presents its sincere condolences to the victims of this threefold disaster, bearing in mind that the human losses and material damage have not yet been fully assessed; welcomes the mobilisation, courage and determination of the japanese people and of the authorities in response to this disaster; 2. calls on the union and its member states, as a priority, to give japan and the disaster regions all necessary humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support and welcomes the fact that the union immediately activated its civil protection mechanism to coordinate its emergency aid;’.
mr president, a point of order: earlier you referred, on behalf of the whole house, to a state in the united states, in the context of a request to replace the death penalty for a convict with life imprisonment. i would ask, please, that we actually request that the sentence be commuted, but not to say 'for life imprisonment', and more in view of how life imprisonment is understood in the united states; i think it should be said that the death penalty should be commuted 'for another proportionate penalty'.
mr president, i would like to warmly congratulate the rapporteur, mr simpson, on the agreement he has achieved, fighting inch by inch, in a field as technical as tourism statistics. but we are in a sector, mr president, in which we are talking about more than two million enterprises, many of them small and mediumsized, with almost ten million jobs, where labour-intensive work is a crucial factor and human resources and their quality are fundamental elements; a sector which accounts for 5% of the european union's gdp. we are really talking about one of the most important sectors of the european economy, and the european union is the world's leading tourist destination. in other words, the union has a leadership which has hitherto been left too much to the whims of the market and the economic situation, with its high inequalities and the risks of diseconomics. finally, the treaty of lisbon has given us the legal basis we needed and which the european parliament had been demanding through a series of pilot projects and preparatory projects, precisely for this new tourism policy in the european union. the commission's communication last year shows us the new ambitions for these new powers and the need to strengthen the tourism sector through better coordination and complementarity with the member states. this required better data - comparable, comprehensive, up-to-date and reliable - and mr simpson's report therefore set out precisely these new developments and requirements. it opens up the criteria to the great diversity of tourism, not only holiday, but also social, etc.; highlights the need to make accessibility visible for people with reduced mobility; includes the environmental variable; opens the way to the consideration of the tourism satellite accounts to have a much more reliable economic portrait; and integrates new aspects and criteria such as short day trips or data related to catering, so important for a tourist country like spain. all this new information will help us to understand much better the sector which is so intensive in creating the jobs we need. with these new statistics, we can therefore better face the modernization and future of a sector which is to underpin a large part of europe 2020, especially in intensive job creation, and employment which should be of high quality.
mr president, i just wanted to contradict mr leichtfried in part and thus increase the interest of the debate a little. i understand that mr leichtfried says that tourism creates problems in transport. i believe that transport in particular improves and promotes tourism and that, therefore, at this very moment when we are reviewing the transeuropean transport networks in europe, we should take this very seriously, since it is becoming clear that better, more fluid, more capable and less environmentally damaging transport is certainly an element, a fundamental vehicle for the tourist sector. i therefore hope that in future the financing of the transeuropean networks and the data coming from them will also improve the capacity of the tourism sector in europe.
member of the commission. − thank you very much, mrs svensson, for your very moving introduction on this extremely important subject. combating violence against women is a very high priority for the commission, as is shown by the gender equality strategy. there is still, as you show, a very big problem of violence against women in europe, and for that reason we are working on focused actions to address this issue. we will develop a clear and coherent policy response to tackle this problem in europe. i welcome your report, mrs svensson, and i welcome this important initiative; it provides the possibility to cooperate, exchange views and create synergies between what the commission is doing and what the european parliament is doing in order to define future action in this area. a number of points that you raise in the report are actually covered by ongoing and planned actions of the commission on combating violence against women. to maximise our impact, we are focusing on concrete actions in an area where we have a clear legal basis to act in the lisbon treaty. in the forthcoming victims’ rights package we will, notably, address the protection of particularly vulnerable victims such as women, but also children. this package will be presented next month. every victim of crime needs assistance in the aftermath of a crime and to cope with any proceedings that follow. women are, of course, particularly vulnerable if they have suffered violence in their home – rape or sexual abuse, stalking or other kinds of gender-based violence. they need to be treated with respect and knowledge when they come into contact with people and the justice system. these women also need specialised support and protection and should be given access to justice and compensation. the current legal framework in the eu does not provide for a minimum level of treatment for victims throughout the eu irrespective of where they have been victimised, and that is why the commission intends to act to strengthen the position of victims in europe. we are thus presenting, as a first step, a package of legislative measures on the rights, protection and support of victims of crime and the mutual recognition of protection measures. specific focus in this will be given to vulnerable victims such as victims of sexual and domestic violence. the commission will also provide for the mutual recognition of protection measures, which will benefit especially victims suffering repeated violence from a spouse, partner or member of their close family. with this package, the commission will make sure that in europe no woman crossing the borders and benefiting from a protection measure – be it of an administrative, civil or criminal nature – is left behind. our package will set out a general framework, which would then be completed in the course of this mandate by other instruments focusing on the specific needs of certain types of victims. for instance, the commission is concerning taking stronger action to combat female genital mutilation, as you also mention in your report. in parallel with our actions in the criminal justice area, we will work for the empowerment of women, awareness-raising and the collection and analysis of statistics on violence against women. the commission will draw on the work by the european institute for gender equality, which will collect and analyse data and statistics on this subject. to conclude, i would like to underline that the commission is currently providing important financial support to prevent and combat violence against women, particularly through the daphne iii programme, the work of european ngos and public authorities.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, most of the times i have spoken in this parliament i have done so to denounce violence against women, and i am here again to combat it. i must say that not only do i not tire of it, but i think it is essential to continue to speak publicly about this violation of human rights, since there is no cause that can be defended without a sounding board, and this parliament is the best speaker i have at my disposal to defend all those women who suffer daily abuse and who need us, the legislators, to force the states to punish the aggressors in accordance with the gravity of the crime, and also to help the victims. when it is estimated that one in four european women has suffered gender-based violence at least once in her life, and children in equal measure, i think it is impossible not to call for greater commitment, as acknowledged by the commission in its action plan. i think we must keep insisting, again and again, to protect victims, as we have done with the european order for the protection of victims, which i was rapporteur for, and which i hope will become a reality as soon as possible. this report has had a great deal of consensus and support from the outset, demonstrating that when it comes to tackling domestic violence, which affects all members of the family - children, the elderly, women and men - it should not be a matter of political opportunism, as we are all honoured to make progress in solving this social scourge. the first is not to be silent and the second is to get to work, because, although we have been talking about gender violence for decades, we have not been able to reduce the number of deaths. we are going to be doing something wrong, and therefore it is time to forget about demagogy and to move from words to deeds, providing more real help and implementing the necessary legislation so that women can live in dignity and security. let all the victims know that i will always be here to lend my voice to them, until, together, we succeed in defeating this terrible enemy, which sadly ends the lives of so many innocent people! i say, enough! that's enough! and i ask all of you to say it with me.
i am also speaking in the last debate in the house on this subject, and i can only regret that the fact that only some of the proposals put forward in that debate were taken into account is what now explains the figures and the situations we are seeing, particularly in lampedusa. we are aware of the help you are giving and the effort that commissioner malmström is making at the head of the home office to strengthen the european border fund, the european return fund, the european refugee fund and, of course, the frontex operation. but this crisis in the mediterranean highlights a condition no longer of credibility but of viability of the common european immigration policy, which wants the area of freedom, justice and security, as envisaged in the treaty on the functioning of the european union in its articles 67 to 89, and therefore raises the question of the humanitarian impact and the significance of europe in managing the humanitarian impact on the front of displaced persons and potential asylum seekers and refugees. i would therefore like to stress once again that this debate must serve to unblock the asylum package once and for all, to draw attention once and for all not only to the need to comply with and implement directive 2001/55/ec on measures for displaced persons in humanitarian emergencies and in the event of unforeseen mass migration, but also and above all to build, beyond the directive, a solidarity policy which gives substance to that solidarity clause which is re-written in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and which must be applied in a situation such as this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and, by the way, it strikes me that there has not yet been a request, a request, for the activation of article 5 of that directive to apply that solidarity clause as envisaged, but what is clear is that we have to use this opportunity to respond in a dignified and solidarity-based way to an issue which, like the mediterranean, is a distinctly european issue.
madam president, i want to speak and use this debate to speak about a substantive, which is the emergency: alone, you cannot. the problem is rooted in the turbulent situation in tunisia, egypt and the war in libya. but that doesn't have a limited permanence in time. unfortunately, it has a troubling permanence in time. so it's about what we can do, through common policies because alone we can't to manage the emergency. in my view, madam president, the key to this alphabet is solidarity with the victims and also solidarity with the host countries and regions. we have instruments, which we don't use properly. we have four funds. mrs malmström has spoken to us effectively and quickly about amounts which i think are ridiculous. he has spoken of 30 million euros, 25 million euros, on request, and so on. but our four funds, the refugee, return, external borders and integration funds, contain almost three billion euros in the field of financial perspectives. so those funds, in my view, madam president, must be used for emergency situations, because we must have the power to use them and to change them. and an emblematic proof of our limitations in terms of collaboration and solidarity is the fragility that frontex has shown with the hermes operation. the limitations of this capacity are evident in the arrival of more and more people fleeing war and despair. so, alone they can't. who can? the european union can provide the solidarity needed in real time to cover the emergency.
madam president, i think lampedusa has become an inhuman symbol of the european union's immigration policy. not now. it's a structural problem. i remember february 14, 2009, in the previous legislature. i went to lampedusa with a delegation from my parliamentary group. we're going down to hell. to the hells! that was the migration policy that was not based on the recognition that migration is a right, not a crime, and that did nothing to guarantee a sacred principle: the asylum claim. in lampedusa in 2009, people were not being identified and asylum requests were not being handled until people did what they had to do: rise up, organize a riot, because they were living like animals. from 2009 to 2011, nothing has changed. well, something has changed, and that is that berlusconi signed an agreement with gaddafi, even though gaddafi did not comply with international law and expelled the unhcr knowing that he had 9,000 refugees in libya; that libya that is now being bombed after a humanitarian call. that's the hypocrisy that needs to change. that is what needs to be changed radically in the european union.
madam president, the nuclear crisis in japan must not be exploited for manipulation, but the public demands answers and action from us. the first is that the safety tests announced should be rapid, transparent and that the states should be obliged to close outdated or unsafe plants. the first tests must be carried out at the first generation plants, which share technology with fukushima. they've reached the end of their useful life and are technically obsolete. that is why i ask you to support the request of all the institutions of the basque country in favour of the urgent closure of one of these power stations, that of garoña. around it, in a radius of less than 50 miles, live over two million people. we must also look more closely at prevention in terms of town planning and civil protection, at safety in deciding where to place this type of equipment, and draw up a european protocol which will enable us to act together efficiently, in an orderly and rapid manner in the face of large-scale disasters.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the current international economic crisis catalonia is showing very positive signs, such as a 16% increase in its exports last year, but also very negative symptoms such as youth unemployment of over 40%. one of the main reasons for these difficulties is the loss of tax revenue suffered by our country every year, equivalent to more than 10% of gross domestic product, a figure much higher than the contribution of the wealthiest länder of germany to the federal republic as a whole. the economic asphyxiation of catalonia is affecting one of the main economic engines of southern europe and is therefore a problem for the whole of the european union.
madam president, i would like to echo the concerns expressed last week by don felipe de borbón, who bears the historic title of my region 'the principality of asturias' when he received the prince of wales in madrid. don felipe has encouraged the governments of spain and the united kingdom to resolve the bitter conflict over gibraltar. and that's the way it should be. this is an important reminder, and i welcome it, i repeat, from the european parliament. spain and the united kingdom being exemplary democratic member states, it is intolerable that the british occupation of the rock should continue into the 21st century. no occupation of one sovereign country by another is acceptable in law. nor, of course, is the occupation of northern cyprus, which i visited recently, against the territorial integrity of cyprus, acceptable.
mr president, i want to denounce today an act of aggression against one of the pillars of the european union: the internal market and the free circulation of goods and people. recently, the catalan meat industry federation and certain catalan newspapers have reported that, in france, trucks coming from catalonia have been attacked and damaged by french farmers. the meat products some trucks were carrying were completely destroyed by french pickets. these acts of aggression have been repeated twice since the beginning of 2011. the last incident happened just a few weeks ago, when french pickets stopped another lorry full of meat from catalonia, assaulted the driver and then sprayed diesel over 20 000 kilos of fresh meat. this pressure by some french farmers’ unions, destroying products coming from outside france, has had a very rapid impact on clients of the catalan meat industry, as a result of which its sales have dropped by 50%. i have tabled a parliamentary written question to the commission in the hope that the european union will stop this unacceptable aggression.
madam president, last january the european commission adopted the strategy to tackle early school leaving as a key contribution to the europe 2020 strategy to fight early school leaving across the european union and to reduce the rate of early school leaving to below ten per cent. it is interesting that there is no mention of the disabled in this strategy, and that is why i would like to make an appeal at this point, since on 2 and 4 may there will be a meeting of all the ministers of education of the member states in brussels to discuss the global strategies on this subject. i would ask that the issue of disabled people be integrated into this strategy, because it is fundamental for this group of people throughout europe to have continuing training and thus to be able to access the labour market. the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities already stated in article 24 that persons with disabilities must not be excluded from the general education system under any circumstances.
madam president, the european council has adopted a series of measures relating to governance, budgetary consolidation, competitiveness, etc. and i would like to say that they are all moving in the right direction. these 16 points of the european council are largely due to the work of both president van rompuy and president barroso, and that is why i congratulate you, first of all, because i do value, some of us do value, what you have done at the head of the institutions. but the problem, mr president, is that we are not just facing an economic crisis, we are facing a crisis of confidence and a political crisis in europe and in the european nations. it is not just a question of assessing the specific economic and technical content of the european council. at the same time as there are european councils, there are european, national and regional elections, and in all of them our nervousness is confirmed. there are positions that go to extremes. there are positions which, at the moment, are locked into nationalisms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are not simply times when there is a north-south crisis, as some colleague has rightly said, in the european union; they are new times, and the new times are characterized by the accumulation and multiplication of crises and their failure to be resolved. they appear unexpectedly, inside and out. and these new times require essentially new attitudes, new personal attitudes, new institutional attitudes, and that is the great political challenge that we have before us. a change of personal attitude begins with oneself. if you are a member of the european parliament, you have to say what parliament has to change in order to face new times, and the same must be done by the commission and the council; each and every one of us has to know how to deal with this issue. but, in any case, the important thing is that you don't miss north, because you're going in the right direction.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first crisis of the euro area, and when the crisis came we could see that the european union was not equipped to deal with it. there have been design flaws, such as the lack of financial assistance provision for euro area countries, ineffective implementation of public finance and competitiveness commitments, and an increase in macroeconomic imbalances and divergence within the euro area. we have seen how the steps taken to have a european voice in the field of foreign and security policy have not been followed up in the economic field, despite the requirements of globalisation, our economic potential failing to become economic leadership at global level, and the limp between the common monetary pillar and the intergovernmental economic pillar has become much more evident. to give an appropriate response, progress in integration is necessary. there is no national solution, unless some people get the century wrong. the european council of 24 and 25 march has therefore taken important, even spectacular, steps in the right direction. the implementation of the european semester, the adoption of the permanent stability mechanism, the commitments made to parliament and even the legislative package, which will need to be balanced by parliament, are all moving in the right direction. the euro plus pact is certainly a step forward, but much remains to be done. the crisis is still there, there are 23 million unemployed and there are still significant clouds on our horizon and great challenges. that is why we need a three-dimensional pact with the european citizens, because austerity policy has its limits and we need to commit ourselves to a policy of growth and employment through investments that will allow us to reorient our economic model and implement the 2020 strategy. the policy of fiscal and financial sustainability calls for a european framework both in the area of sovereign debt and in the recapitalisation of financial institutions and a genuine european social pact introducing productivity improvements, with social standards, fiscal advances and the updating of the welfare state is necessary.
madam president, at the beginning of his speech, mr van rompuy pointed out that in 49 days there have been three european decision-making councils and a summit. this means that what used to be a quarterly or semiannual event is now the usual way of governing the union to respond immediately to immediate challenges. but beyond the immediate challenges lies the union's horizon, and the union's horizon depends on our ability to compete. what do we have, at this moment, to generate knowledge? few universities among the best in the world, a percentage of research and development below that of emerging and developed countries and, at the same time, companies scarcely involved in research. we must have a european dimension, european universities coordinated with each other and programmes that generate excellence and cooperation.
i voted in favour of this report because it helps to combat the invisibility which has hitherto been attached to the work and contribution of women in rural areas. without this contribution it would not have been possible, yesterday or today, to keep the population and activity outside the cities. this visibility must be reflected in social recognition, but also in benefits. the cap should include gender mainstreaming in its support programmes, with special initiatives for women entrepreneurs. it should also help to finance services and enhance aspects such as the digitalisation of the rural environment, which promote equal living conditions in urban and rural areas. the social security systems of the member states must also recognise the work of women in this field, both in the productive and in the welfare spheres, especially in the care of dependent persons and children.
mr president, violence against women is the direct consequence of discrimination; we therefore need a comprehensive policy with special attention to the children of battered women. they need to be entitled to free legal and psychological assistance, to reception centres and economic benefits that promote their autonomy, to specialised courts, to action protocols and special training for health, police and judicial staff, and to statistics and data collection to know the real dimension of the problem and to implement the most appropriate policies at european level.
in writing. - the application complies with the requirements of the egf and concerns 200 of the 594 redundancies which occurred in nine months in three polish companies engaged in the manufacture of machinery and equipment and which reduced their exports by 58%. 20% of those affected are over 54 years old and 10% are over 64. this aid will improve the training of redundant workers for their future integration into new jobs.
in writing. - although i voted in favour of this proposal to grant aid to the workers of podkarpackie machinaria in poland, i consider that it is a measure to alleviate and mitigate the consequences of the capitalist model and does not represent any progress in the fight against the root causes of the crisis. i am in favour of the mobilisation of resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund for citizens made redundant as a result of structural changes in business models or as a direct consequence of the current economic and financial crisis. i believe these funds can be useful for the ultimate goal of facilitating the reintegration of these workers into employment. i also voted in favour, convinced that this assistance is complementary to the redundancy payments provided for in national legislation and collective agreements. the commission has also proposed that the egf should be used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry.
in writing. − we have requested that the institutions involved, as usually on those cases, make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf. moreover, parliament appreciates in this sense the improved procedure put in place by the commission, following the parliament’s request for accelerating the release of grants, aimed at presenting to the budgetary authority the commission’s assessment on the eligibility of an egf application together with the proposal to mobilise the fund and hopes that further improvements in the procedure will be reached in the framework of the upcoming reviews of the fund. however, it also recalls the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have been made redundant as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis, points out the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market and, however, calls for an evaluation on the long-term integration of these workers into the labour market as a direct result of the egf-funded measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it deals realistically, by setting medium and long-term objectives, with a problem which has its origin in the imbalance between developed and non-developed countries and in the violations of human rights in many parts of the world. the report sets out procedures to prevent illegal immigration and aims to involve emerging countries and all those involved from origin, transit and destination in the overall approach to this problem. i also think it is particularly positive to insist on the idea of making cooperation policies conditional on the degree of respect for human rights and references to the protection of the most disadvantaged groups, such as women or unaccompanied minors.
in writing. - i voted against the provera report on migration flows caused by instability: scope and role of eu foreign policy because i rejected the european union's migration policy, the policy of 'fortress europe' with steel borders for men and women and instead smoky borders for capital. this report supports a european migration policy which is not based on the recognition that migration is a right, not a crime, and which does not guarantee a sacred principle: the right to seek asylum. the eu's hypocrisy is abhorrent: it criminalizes the undocumented immigrant. the use of illegal labour in the process of rapid capital accumulation is a direct attack on the universal nature of human rights. the eu, which can only exist through economic immigration, is very cynical. what is happening in north africa is a clear indication of this strength of europe. frontex is not about solidarity and cooperation to help people against dictatorships (ben ali, mubarak, gaddafi): when thousands of africans arrive in europe fleeing repression and war, the eu imprisons them.
in writing. − migration flows arising from instability are a challenge for the european union. wars and armed conflicts, ethnic tension, systematic violations of human rights – such as the refusal to allow people to practise their religious faith – natural disasters and the lack of proper economic and democratic structures are the main causes of this type of migration flow. this phenomenon is particularly worrying because it may give rise to or exacerbate tensions, not only between countries of origin and countries of destination, but also between countries of origin and transit countries. in order to meet this challenge effectively, the european union must implement a policy of prevention, employing the most appropriate foreign policy instruments with a view to addressing the causes of instability directly, so that emigration becomes an opportunity, not a desperate necessity. a european policy on regulating migration should combine development cooperation measures with a more comprehensive political vision encompassing security, regional cooperation, bilateral agreements with countries of origin and transit countries, the safeguarding of human rights and democratisation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas because i believe that their role is crucial in this sector which employs 14.6 million people (41% of whom are women). while i am aware that the second pillar of the cap provides support for projects relating to the living conditions of women in rural areas, i believe that it is necessary to analyse the projects under way in order to identify good practices and to contribute to improving the situation of women, who are particularly affected by the consequences of the current structural crisis of the capitalist system in rural areas, especially if we take into account the high levels of female unemployment, to which it must be added that many women do not even participate in the labour market, so they are not registered as unemployed or included in unemployment statistics. i also believe that the social protection of women working in agriculture is essential for rural development and i have therefore supported this report which goes in this direction.
in writing. − women are the backbone of the agricultural sector and the rural world and their presence there is increasingly obvious. it is therefore important to highlight the role that women play in farm businesses and in rural areas, taking particular account of the multifunctional nature of these businesses. in this context, there are opportunities to provide practical support measures for women in agriculture. greater account must be taken of the wide range of vocational skills, interests and achievements of women, so that jobs in farming remain an attractive option for them. this will entail women having a full share in the resources that underpin farming as a way of life and a type of business. women farmers must have a share in rights and duties that is commensurate with their co-responsibility for the farm business, including through the representation of interests on agricultural bodies and by having a real share in farm income. ensuring adequate social cover for all women who work in agriculture is another indispensable factor in modern sustainable farming. experience with systems of agricultural social security in the eu member states should be taken into account and should, in the medium term, contribute to a definite improvement of the social situation of women in agriculture in europe.
in writing. - the disaster in japan has made us all think about nuclear safety. the closure aid for plants in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria with outdated technology helps to mitigate the consequences of the exceptional costs of their early closure for 2013. the aid is intended to improve the environment and modernise new electricity systems and to improve the security of supply. i have supported this initiative because this must also be the future for other european nuclear power stations with obsolete technologies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the efficiency and effectiveness of eu funding in the field of nuclear decommissioning in the new member states as it indicates that the closure of the nuclear power stations involved should be given the highest priority, in the interests of the health and safety of the entire european population, and expresses its concern that the lack of financial resources for closure measures will delay the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and constitute a threat to the environment and human health. the fukushima accident shows that nuclear energy cannot be controlled in the event of a disaster, and that its management cannot be in private hands. it is therefore urgent that a moratorium be imposed on the construction of any further nuclear power stations and that a timetable be set for the closure of the 143 existing power stations in europe. the eu must move towards a future free of nuclear power stations and based on renewable energy.
in writing. − the three countries, lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria, operated old soviet-design nuclear reactors that the international community, in line with the g7 multilateral programme of action adopted at the munich g7 summit in 1992, concluded could not be upgraded to meet the minimum required safety standards at an economically acceptable cost. in the context of the negotiations for accession to the european union, the three countries took the commitment to close and subsequently decommission these nuclear reactors on fixed dates. in recognition of the fact that the early closure represented an exceptional financial burden and as act of solidarity, the european union committed itself to provide adequate additional financial assistance for decommissioning these reactor units until the end of 2013.
in writing. the aid covers 460 of the 664 redundancies in the retail trade sector of unilever cr. 52.4% of those affected are women. 13% are over 54 and 9.1% are under 24. it should be noted that the measures to assist the training of the redundant will be co-financed by the company, which does not shirk its responsibility, and will be implemented by contractors and companies working on its behalf.
in writing. - although i voted in favour of this proposal to grant aid to unilever workers in the czech republic, i consider that it is a measure to alleviate and mitigate the consequences of the capitalist model and does not represent any progress in the fight against the root causes of the crisis. i am in favour of the mobilisation of resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund for citizens made redundant as a result of structural changes in business models or as a direct consequence of the current economic and financial crisis. i believe these funds can be useful for the ultimate goal of facilitating the reintegration of these workers into employment. i also voted in favour, convinced that this assistance is complementary to the redundancy payments provided for in national legislation and collective agreements. the commission has also proposed that the egf should be used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry.
in writing. − as usually in this type of reports, the ep: 1. requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf; appreciates in this sense the improved procedure put in place by the commission, following the ep request for accelerating the release of grants, aimed at presenting to the budgetary authority the commission’s assessment on the eligibility of an egf application together with the proposal to mobilise the fund; hopes that further improvements in the procedure will be reached in the framework of the upcoming reviews of the fund; 2. recalls the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have been made redundant as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis; points out the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market; however, calls for an evaluation on the long-term integration of these workers into the labour market as a direct result of the egf-funded measures.
in writing. − in afet/sede, as green mep as rapporteur, we were very successful. the afet/sede opinion proposed to delete the low value shipments cgea because we were provided with good data proving that there is no positive correlation between a low price and a low security risk, an assumption on which the whole cgea relied. on the contrary, some very cheap dual use items might be of great risk if they get into the wrong hands. we were also able to delete the part on ‘information security’ of eu007 because among the possible destinations were some non-democratic countries. we also managed to get a broad support in afet/sede for strong wording on the need to respect human rights when in comes to the export of telecommunication equipment because interception technologies, digital data transfer devices for monitoring mobiles phones, etc. are part of this cgea. with regard to possible destinations of individual cgeas we managed to exclude both israel and india because of their unwillingness to become a state party to the non-proliferation treaty (npt). but the most contentious and important issue was the question of whether it is sufficient to control, notify and register after the export has taken place or prior to the export.
in writing. as rapporteur jadot said, today's vote strengthens the european parliament's position on the subject and sends a strong signal to the much too timid european council. export credit agencies are an important instrument for the eu to support trade and investment by european businesses. but there was an urgent need to address the lack of transparency and european oversight - notably by parliament - surrounding their activities, given that several hundred million euros pass through them every year and that national budgets are subject to strong budgetary constraints. i too welcome the fact that members are once again voting in favour of phasing out fossil fuel subsidies and thus encouraging the ecological transition, in line with european and national commitments on climate change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the svensson report on the new eu policy framework to combat violence against women because i am deeply concerned about this type of violence. it is estimated that between 20 and 25 per cent of european women have suffered physical violence at least once and more than 10 per cent have been sexually abused. i therefore believe that the time has come to put an end to gender-based violence and that this will only be possible by building genuine equality between all. furthermore, i am convinced that rape should be recognised as a crime throughout the european union and its perpetrators brought to justice. the report also proposes a new approach to combating this social scourge, not only through criminal action but also through protection and prevention against precarious work, unemployment and poverty, which in many cases leave women in a situation of dependence and prevent them from choosing their future freely. a european directive against gender-based violence is therefore essential. member states should take measures to this effect as soon as possible.
in writing. − violence against women is an international as well as a european problem. despite the fact that violence against women has been a topic of debate over several decades, the international community has not managed to put an end to this extremely destructive form of criminality. it is distressing to see how we still fail to protect women against violence. it is a complex problem which involves protecting the integrity of individual victims of crime but also protecting important common social interests, such as freedom and democracy. the european union must therefore shoulder its responsibility and introduce the legislation required to put an end to the violence. i recognise the compilation made by the rapporteur of a number of measures in this strategic report which are absolutely necessary in order to guarantee women in europe a decent life. however, due to the fact that recital j establishes that prostitution as such is a violation of human rights, and given the effort we are making to regulate such practices, some members of our group had to abstain in the end.
mr president, after the serious accident at the fukushima plant, the european commission's reaction so far has been characterized, apart from some unfortunate slip-ups, by the necessary seriousness, prudence and rigour. however, this painful event has generated in our populations an acute emotional climate, adverse to this source of energy. in order to mitigate possible negative effects on the ballot box, some governments have hastily changed their position and decided to revoke their plans for new construction or their plans to extend the life of their power stations. mr barroso: given that nuclear energy accounts for fourteen per cent of our energy consumption, the steady and foreseeable increase in electricity demand and our target of achieving 85 per cent reductions in carbon dioxide by 2050, many of us, and i, ask you, mr barroso, in this context, which may be short-lived, whether the european commission has any legislative or policy action planned to prevent this climate from jeopardising our long-term energy strategy.
madam president, i congratulate mr fernandes, the rapporteur, and i am grateful for the last words of mr gerbrandy; i think they are very fortunate. this is a more austere budget, in line with what the commission and the council have asked for. it remains at the 20% limit, so we are complying with the gentlemen's agreement, although it does not exist: we all talk about savings, some with partisan intentions, but we all have some common priorities: for example, members want legislative production to be improved, we are asked to respond to the new priorities of the lisbon treaty, we are asked to work more professionally in the codecision, we are asked for more meeting rooms, more internal security, more effort in communication policy, better computer networks... all this has to be financed, right? you have to honor the agreements you've signed in real estate. they say we could stop funding them, but we know that's not how it works and if we're responsible, we'll have to accept that, won't we? youth is never a matter of controversy: youth is a necessity. my country, for example, has a youth unemployment rate of 50 percent. a hundred million euros for youth policy does not solve the problems, but it does respond to the priorities of parliament. i know that transferring this money from category 5 to category 1 is controversial, and it could even be argued, as has been argued, that it contradicts the budgetary procedure, but we are a living institution and we must adapt to the needs of the moment. i do not think there is a greater urgency than to solve the issue of youth unemployment. i'm sure that's the priority of all of you. and finally, i shall vote in favour of the common house of european history.
madam president, i too congratulate my colleague, mr ivan, precisely on the rigorous approach he has taken to such a controversial and difficult subject as fraud detection and the protection of financial interests. i would like to thank you for your interest in defining fraud, because fraud suspects and irregularities or errors are often mixed up, and that is where shocking figures come from without being really rigorous. i also want to emphasize your interest in raising the issue of deadlines. the delays that occur precisely between detection and notification by the member states, which also lead to difficult situations. and to remember that the cycles and the closing of the cycles are the final figures, and that, for the moment, the last complete cycle to be closed was the one of the year 1999, and that at present we are only in the new cycle 2000-2006, at the close of the year 2004. only the final figures for that year can therefore be taken into account. i would of course like to support olaf's efforts within the code of conduct and also congratulate it on the detection of fraud in relation to china and the asian countries.
i am grateful to the commissioner for the report, which i believe will be very useful for the commission to take further steps towards establishing a better system for the recognition and protection of european political parties. european democracy is genuinely representative democracy. the building of representative democracy is the one that has held firm since, in the middle of the 19th century, the expansion of suffrage made real the promise of the liberal revolutions to grant representation to the people, to direct their destinies. the representative building has a firm foundation, but from time to time it needs reforms and new ways of expressing itself in a higher quality. that is the work which parliament has done, for example, in adopting the citizens' initiative. in short, democracy has never survived without free representation and representation has never been free without plural competition. it is the political parties that allow this plural representation. in a democracy, parties express pluralism and are fundamental instruments for political participation: they help to shape public opinion, offer alternatives, general and sectoral government programmes, coordinate and harmonise social interests and contribute to communication between popular demands and those in power. as one political party theorist has rightly pointed out, parties did not develop to communicate to the people what the needs of the rulers were, but to communicate to the rulers what the aspirations of the citizens were. what has worked at national level, we need to make work at european level. the aim is therefore to provide a framework and opportunities for european political parties to fulfil, at the european territorial level, the same functions that have been fulfilled at the national level. the most fundamental thing is therefore to give parties a legal status, and that is what this report proposes: parties that have a territorial presence and, at the same time, behave in accordance with democratic rules, a differentiation between the recognition of parties and funding, which requires popular support. finally, we expect the commission to put in place the mechanisms to improve the currently imperfect situation of the regulation of political parties.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i must begin by again regretting the complications which a dossier has acquired because of the resistance of the council and the commission to accept the co-decision powers of parliament. in this case, it is a proposal to allow greenland, as an overseas country and territory, to export under the same conditions as a member state of the european union. this is a win-win situation for greenland, which exports 87% of its fishery products to the european union, and for the union, and in particular for denmark, which receives the majority of these exports. one of the conditions for including greenland in the single market import regime is that it accepts community health standards, which is not a problem at all. trade in fishery products falls within the scope of the common organization of the market, but the commission, relying on the need to comply with health standards, submitted its proposal on the basis of article 203 of the treaty, which for us meant a simple and straightforward consultation procedure. both the committee on fisheries and the legal service were aware of this anomaly from the outset, but as the proposal presented no problems of substance and given its importance for greenland, we agreed to deal with the report under the consultation procedure. we should not be surprised if, as soon as the text was about to be voted on, the council adopted a completely different proposal without prior notice, with numerous amendments which seek to conceal the obvious link with the common organization of the market and thus avoid codecision, in a free manoeuvre, since, as i said earlier, parliament would have approved the first text by consultation without any problems. however, faced with a new text and the council's clear proof that the aim was to rob parliament of its powers, we decided to use them fully and to ask the committee on legal affairs for a formal opinion. in that opinion, the committee on legal affairs stated that i read the wording the objective of the proposal is to require greenland to transpose community health rules as a requirement for the application of the european union rules on the internal market in fishery products, as set out in article 3 of the proposal itself, ensuring that the rules of the agreement are in line with the applicable rules laid down in the union on animal health and food safety and the common organisation of the market in fishery products. the committee on legal affairs therefore unanimously decided that articles 204 and 43 (2) of the treaty, together with protocol no 34, which contains specific provisions and procedures for products subject to the common organization of the market in fishery products in greenland, were the legal basis for the proposal. i therefore, as rapporteur, drew up a new draft report, amending the legal basis, which is what we are putting to you for approval tomorrow and which, for the european parliament, we understand to be our first reading. i therefore simply have to say to the commission and the council - which i think is absent - that they now have an opportunity to rectify and recognise the new legal basis, and therefore consider, as we will consider tomorrow, that this is a first reading. the problem is legal, not content. i ask that this problem be solved for the future.
mr president, commissioner, i congratulate the four rapporteurs on their excellent work. i shall concentrate on two reports, given their importance. one of them concerns the agreement with the union of the comoros. we are dealing with a fisheries agreement between the european union and a country in south-east africa - and i say this because of our geographical location - where 60% of the population live below the poverty line and where their only source of income is tourism or state aid. this agreement provides for the possibility of catching surplus fish. i repeat: overfishing. and on the other hand, it provides for a counterpart for the development of the country itself, to improve its infrastructure and its own capacities. it establishes a framework for cooperation based on criteria of sustainable and responsible fishing, preserving biological resources; it must take into account that there are migratory species such as tuna and each year the stock of the following year is fixed on the basis of scientific criteria. it facilitates scientific research and the presence of observers on board, as well as the maintenance of fisheries in the area, since it is limited to a coastal space for indigenous fisheries to develop. this protocol is of great importance, because of the access of european fishing vessels to the area, because of the development aid, the improvement of employment and the improvement of economic prospects. but it is also because of one very important factor: it prevents fishing by third countries where the preservation of the environment is not adequately ensured. 75% of the fishery resources in the area are caught by third countries. we therefore consider that this agreement not only helps the union of the comoros but also helps to preserve the environment. the important grelier report on a regulation laying down technical measures which would expire in three months and which is being asked to be extended until december 2012 should also be given special attention, because otherwise there would be a legal vacuum, legal uncertainty and poor conservation of marine resources. but we should also stress the assessment of the accompanying declaration in which the commission is asked to accept certain amendments: some technical measures proposed by the states. we have already mentioned the issue of networks here, we have also discussed the issue of depth. it affects certain fisheries and we believe that the commission should take it up because of the impact it has on the stocks themselves. it affects zones 8, 9 and 10, and it is important to remedy these shortcomings which occur in the application of a regulation which harms not only fisheries but also the stocks of origin.
mr president, i shall vote in favour of this agreement because it is good for the european fleet. in total, 70 vessels will benefit from the scheme, 12 more than under the previous agreement, and at least one local crew member will be on board. it is positive for the comoros, its citizens and its productive sector for the following reasons: firstly, because the agreement encourages cooperation based on promoting local development, because the financial compensation it entails is intended for this task; secondly, because it encourages respect for human rights by the governments of the area and because this is a key condition for maintaining the agreement; thirdly, because it supports the more artisanal forms of fishing practiced there and because it guarantees that the 8 500 people living in the comoros engaged in this type of activity have their own fishing zone: european vessels will not be able to fish within the ten nautical miles surrounding each island. finally, because it promotes the sustainability of fisheries in the area and because it includes a mechanism for the objective assessment of the state of fish stocks and establishes scientific cooperation mechanisms for this purpose.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add my congratulations to the rapporteurs on these four reports. before i refer to the report by mr ferreira and the report by mrs fraga estévez, i would like to express my support for the report by mr capoulas santos, who recommends that the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial compensation provided for in the partnership agreement with the union of the comoros be approved, and recalls the need for parliament to be actively involved in this process. i also share the main points of mrs grelier's report on technical measures. i call on the commission to speed up its impact assessment and to give priority to the preparation of a new regulation on them so that it can be adopted as soon as possible, if possible before 2013. the ferreira report amends regulation (ec) no 861/2006 on community financial measures, one of the tools used for the implementation of the common fisheries policy, together with the european fisheries fund. it clarifies its scope, it adapts it to the real needs of the common fisheries policy in the framework of the new lisbon treaty, and that is why i welcome it. however, in line with the rapporteur and taking into account that one of the fundamental conditions for achieving sustainable fisheries is to ensure up-to-date and accurate knowledge of the situation of fish stocks, i regret that in the area of data collection, management and use it has not been possible to increase the co-financing rates. the fraga estévez report concerns the establishment of animal health and food safety rules for imports of certain fishery products from greenland, whether originating in greenland or from third countries. the rules affect almost 90% of greenland's exports in this area, which amounted to eur 251 million in 2007. there is a broad consensus to apply to these imported products the rules governing trade within the european union, to which greenland remains associated. the single market in fishery products and products derived from fisheries will thus be extended. it is clear that there is no agreement on what the legal basis should be and that is why we very much welcome the commission's attitude in favour of an agreement. parliament follows the report of its legal service, the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, in the position it maintains from the committee on fisheries. we hope that these issues can be resolved, that greenland will be given the priority it deserves and that a legislative agreement will be reached.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in any case, i was thinking about the possibility of asking for this dossier to be referred back to committee tomorrow before the final vote, but then i thought better and saw that this can only delay this proposal further, which i think is good for greenland and also for the european union, and that it would be advisable not to delay it further. i hope, however, that the council will accept the very justified demands of the committee on fisheries and that a solution will be found, since the only problem is the legal basis and not the content. in any case, i am glad that we have reached this result, and we always have the possibility of going to the court of justice if we think it is appropriate to pursue this matter. we are, however, showing good will tomorrow by delivering our opinion and we hope that the council will react and consider this, as i have said, as the first reading of parliament. so i thank the commissioner for her willingness to collaborate on this and simply, and all my colleagues who have collaborated and supported this report. i can only hope that the council will accept our demands, which are, as i said, justified and supported not only by the committee on legal affairs but also by the legal services of the european parliament.
opinion of the committee on international trade and development - mr president, the eight committees that have collaborated include the committee on international trade, and i thank its members for their contributions to the report. the consolidation of the single market is a growth-based objective of strategy 2020. the european union is the international player. in the face of a globalised market, the european union must face up to its challenges. the challenge for companies, our companies, in the international market is to generate great expectations, great opportunities, but they also have a dimension of social responsibility: social growth with guarantees for workers and for public services. we also have a commitment to developing countries: the fight against poverty, the millennium objective. in future, our industry and our companies must be based on knowledge, with respect for intellectual property, fighting against counterfeiting. we must defend our companies in the light of research and development criteria and social criteria, also in the external dimension, by european citizens and by those outside the european union.
i thank you for your comments, mr president, and i agree with you that we must listen to the people and restore confidence in the european project. that is why today can be a great day for europe and for european social construction. because, with the adoption of these reports, we are not only making progress towards the revival of the single market, a key element in the face of the current economic crisis, but we are also responding to the demands of the citizens, who are calling for progress towards more europe and strengthening social rights. europe must respond to new global challenges and transform the european economy into a highly competitive social market economy that creates tangible growth with more and better jobs. but this objective must be based on the insertion, in all legislation relating to the internal market, of a social clause which puts citizens at the centre of our attention and priority, strengthening their social rights. finally, i would ask the commission to submit these proposals as soon as possible.
i voted in favour of this agreement because greenland's exports of fishery products account for 82% of exports. 87% of this is allocated to the european union, and mainly to denmark, namely 97%. there is a disagreement with the commission on the legal basis, but i share the view of the committee on legal affairs, which unanimously approved the application of articles 43 (2) and 204 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the sole article of protocol no 34 on the special arrangements for greenland. the position is also supported by parliament's legal service and, in accordance with the legislative procedure, this should be understood as parliament's first reading. and finally, i am grateful to the commissioner for accepting the legal basis and for showing her willingness to facilitate an agreement with the council and not to delay such an important agreement any further.
mr president, the european union is still the world's largest tourist destination, with 40% of arrivals. it is therefore an economic engine that generates employment and also promotes the integration of rural areas. but tourist demand has changed in recent years. that is why i have supported the objective of creating a common framework for the systematic production of harmonised european statistics on supply and demand in the member states and of adapting, where necessary, the legal framework to take account of new trends such as day trips. systematic information gathering is a necessary tool for effective policy-making and decision-making in the private sector. i have also advocated the introduction of satellite accounts, because they would better demonstrate the effects of tourism on the economy and employment and would have allowed us to define future policies more accurately.
regulation (ec) no 1288/2009 provides for the extension of the transitional technical measures to apply until the adoption of the fixed ones. it is desirable for all of us that these should be adopted as a matter of urgency and as a matter of urgency. however, with the reform of the common fisheries policy in view, these measures must be adopted when we have a new legislative framework. that new framework is planned for the year 2013 and it is therefore necessary to extend its validity until 31 december 2012, taking into account that the current regulation would cease to be in force in 2011. that is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
mr president, i made a mistake in my earlier speech: i misread the subject because of a translation problem; therefore i shall reverse my speech and now say what i should have read earlier. i voted in favour of the financial measures because the regulation had to be amended to adapt it to the present requirements and to the functioning of the union. it would stress that it envisages extending the list of organisations eligible for financial support and updating the list of advisory bodies. it also ensures uniform conditions for the implementation of control and enforcement measures and for the expenditure incurred by the member states in the implementation of the control and enforcement system applicable to the common fisheries policy, as well as in the field of the collection of expenditure or the management and use of basic data. the financial measures also include the economic aspects of fisheries and aquaculture and the reference to data collection, those relating to environmental measures. that is why i voted in favour of the initiative.
mr president, before i go, i would like to make a point. in my previous point i said 'a problem of translation', not because of the translators, the excellent translators here, but because of a problem of mine when i see the text. i was the one who made the translation error; i wanted to make it clear, because it seems that we always blame the mistakes on the translators.
in writing. − we have abstained. the report concerns a transfer in payments for mobilising the eu solidarity fund for floods in 2011 in poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania. we agree with the urgent need to mobilise the funds, but not with the proposed financing method (via a ‘negative reserve’).
in writing. − in favour. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (iia). the iia allows for mobilisation of the solidarity fund within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. in parallel to the proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund for poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania, the commission has presented a draft amending budget (dab no 1/2011 of 14 january 2011) in order to enter the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations in the 2011 budget, as foreseen in point 26 of the iia.
in writing. − i voted against. the conclusion of bilateral fisheries agreements between the european community and non-member countries, termed ‘fisheries partnership agreements’ (fpa) since 2004, has been standard practice under the common fisheries policy (cfp) and is central to the policy’s external dimension. under the agreements with african and pacific countries, the eu’s financial contribution is to a large extent expressly intended to support national fisheries policies based on the principle of sustainability and sound management of fishery resources. the partnership agreements therefore amount to a commitment to promoting responsible and sustainable fishing wherever eu vessels might be operating, based on a thorough assessment of the resources available and making sure that the fishing opportunities to be used have been vouched for by credible scientific opinions and rule out any risk of depleting local stocks. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, increased powers have been conferred on parliament regarding fisheries partnership agreements: under article 218(6)(a) tfeu, the ep now has to give its prior consent to conclusion of an agreement, a requirement that replaces the earlier ordinary consultation procedure. we, as greens, are very critical of how these types of agreements have been implemented so far.
in writing. − in favour. to date, disputes arising from the euro-mediterranean agreements relied solely on diplomatic approaches for a resolution. in practice, this is not efficient and has led to situations were disputes remained unresolved, as they could easily be blocked by the ‘injuring’ party. the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with its partners from the mediterranean in 2006 with a view to negotiating a proper dispute settlement mechanism. a draft agreement was initialled with morocco at the euro-mediterranean trade ministerial conference in brussels on 9 december 2009, and confirmed during the eu-morocco summit on 7 march 2010. the creation of a standard dispute settlement mechanism is welcomed, as it should provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within firm time limits.
in writing. - support for the creation of a standardised dispute settlement mechanism with egypt, which has made it possible to overcome inefficiencies and blockages and to complete the project in agreement with that country. this agreement can contribute to economic and political stability in the euro-mediterranean area, which will facilitate a future of peace, justice, freedom, pluralism and democracy.
in writing. − having regard to the draft council decision (13604/2010), having regard to the draft protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part, concluded on 14 june 1994, on a framework agreement between the european union and ukraine on the general principles for the participation of ukraine in union programmes (13962/2010), having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with articles 114, 168, 169, 172, 173(3), 188 and 192 and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a), of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0401/2010), having regard to rules 81, 90(8) and 46(1) of parliament’s rules of procedure, and having regard to the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs (a7-0063/2011), we consent to conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. − in favour. greenland's exports of fishery products, approximately 82% of its total exports, totalled dkk 1.9 billion (eur 255 million) in 2007, the largest part of which (87%) went to the eu, notably (97%) to denmark. key fisheries exports from greenland include prawn (59%), greenland halibut (23%), cod (9.5%), crabs (1.9%), scallops (1.4%) and spawn (1.3%). on 26 april 2010, the european parliament was consulted on this proposal by the council under the consultation procedure provided for in article 203 tfeu. the committee on fisheries and the legal service of the european parliament expressed serious doubts as to the choice of the legal basis by the commission, i.e. article 203 tfeu, suggesting instead articles 43(2) and 204 tfeu and the sole article of the protocol (no 34) on special arrangements for greenland as the correct legal basis. accordingly, the committee on fisheries asked the committee on legal affairs for an opinion on the proposed legal basis. at its meeting of 28 october 2010, the committee on legal affairs adopted unanimously an opinion entirely supporting the request that articles 43(2) and 204 tfeu and the sole article of the protocol (no 34) on special arrangements for greenland form the legal basis for the proposed legislative act.
in writing. − in favour. i am particularly happy that our centre-right colleagues agreed on the need for special protection, regardless of their general position on asylum. lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people fleeing countries such as iraq, uganda, honduras or indonesia must receive particular protection taking into account cultural sensitivity. this is a major step towards fully complying with our engagements under international asylum law. the european parliament is showing that asylum rules need updating to reflect reality: 76 countries criminalise homosexual acts and 7 foresee the death penalty (maybe 8 soon with uganda). i regret that other progressive provisions did not pass, but today’s text will ultimately bring more fairness for lgbt asylum-seekers. the text adopted today is the european parliament’s formal position at first reading. asylum rules will effectively be amended once eu governments examine the text and conclude an agreement with the european parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour. tourism is an important economic activity in the eu, with a high potential for contributing to greater employment and economic growth, as well as for playing an important role in socio-economic integration in rural, peripheral and less-developed areas, such as areas rich in industrial heritage. statistics in this field are not only used to monitor tourism-specific policies, but also play a role in the wider context of regional policy and sustainable development. in the eu, directive 95/57/ec on the collection of statistical information in the field of tourism organises the system of tourism statistics. eurostat publishes these statistics, which are collected and compiled by national statistical authorities. in order to successfully implement the new policy framework, policy makers at all levels of governance need to take well-informed decisions, based on reliable and comparable statistical data.
in writing. − i voted in favour. regulation (ec) no 861/2006 establishing community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the area of the law of the sea is an important eu financing tool where fisheries are concerned. it is one of the two principal means employed – the other being the european fisheries fund (eff) – to translate the cfp into practice. it provides for funding in the following areas: international relations, governance, data collection, scientific advice, and cfp control systems and enforcement. in each sphere of activity, this regulation applies in conjunction with other regulations or decisions. that related legislation has changed in some respects since the adoption of regulation (ec) no 861/2006, which consequently needs to be amended in order to bring all elements into a coherent relationship within the legislative framework. the commission is also seeking to clarify the scope of some of the measures financed and to improve the wording of certain articles. furthermore, it considers, in the light of experience, that a number of minor adjustments should be made to enable the provisions of the regulation to be geared more effectively to real needs.
in writing. − i voted in favour. in 2008, in the absence of an agreement on a draft regulation to simplify and clarify the community rules on the conservation of fisheries resources, a regulation was adopted establishing a package of transitional technical measures originally intended to apply from 1 january 2010 to 30 june 2011. the purpose of the present proposal is to extend these transitional arrangements for a further 18 months, i.e. until 1 january 2013, so that a new package of technical measures can be drawn up – which will be the subject of a proposal submitted by the commission in 2011 – as part of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − i voted against. the reasons are that no real savings have been made on any budget line, that expenditure has often just been postponed to 2013, that our requested reduction of travelling costs will most probably fail, and that the negotiating procedure for this report was not transparent and aimed to exclude smaller groups with more critical views on the proposed budget increases.
in writing. - i have opposed the approval of this initiative because, in accordance with the provisions of regulation 1924/2006, the statement that the health properties provided by the intake of synthetic dha contribute to the normal visual development of infants aged 6 to 12 months could not be concluded in the opinion that the experts have sent to the commission. in fact, a report published in june 2010 in the british medical journal states that ten years after receiving dha-enriched preparations, children gained weight and had higher blood pressure. there is no clear scientific consensus on the effects of dha-enriched preparations on infants, which is contrary to articles 5 and 6 of that regulation. the declaration is therefore incompatible with the purpose and content of the regulation and i therefore oppose its adoption.
in writing. − in favour, since the consensus resolution considers that the draft commission regulation on the authorisation and refusal of authorisation of certain health claims made on foods and referring to children’s development and health is not compatible with the aim and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, and opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation.
in writing. − abstention. according to articles 206 and 207 tfeu, foreign direct investment (fdi) is an exclusive competence of the eu. this development, which has significant consequences, throws up a double challenge both for managing the more than 1 200 bilateral investment treaties (bit) already concluded by the member states (ms) and defining a future european investment policy which meets the expectations of investors and beneficiary states, while at the same time respecting the eu's external action objectives. specifying this future policy, which will be integrated into the common trade policy, firstly involves an analysis of investment policies conducted so far.
in writing. − article 325 tfeu designates the european commission and the member states as responsible for protecting the financial interests of the union and combating fraud. the commission should continue its efforts to continue to require member states to fulfil their reporting obligations by providing reliable and comparable data and distinguishing between irregularities and fraud. this will enable the european institutions to act. but it will only be possible if the information is transparent. this will enable the european funds to be properly used and will help to gain the credibility and confidence of european citizens.
in writing. − in favour. article 325 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union imposes on the european commission and the member states the obligation of protecting the eu’s financial interest and fighting against fraud in areas in which the responsibility is shared between the european union and the member states. pursuant to article 325(5), the commission, in cooperation with member states, each year submits to the european parliament and to the council a report on the measures taken for the implementation of that article. report from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the protection of the european union’s financial interests – fight against fraud – annual report 2009 (com(2010)382) provides a summary of statistics on irregularities reported by the member states in those areas where member states implement the budget (agricultural policy, cohesion policy and pre-accession funds, i.e. around 80% of the budget) and for the collection of eu’s traditional own resources. it also gives an estimate of irregularities in the field of expenditure managed directly by the commission and an overview of the operational activities of the european anti-fraud office.
in writing. − in favour. european political party development is critical for the activation of public interest in eu affairs. by transcending the centrality of the oft-raised questions ‘who governs and how’, it calls attention to the question ‘who is governed’. underlying discourses on european party regulation is a deeper concern of how to co-constitute a transnational civic space composed of free and equal citizens, and what a collective founding, in the form of a ‘civic contract’ among diverse peoples, might entail for the future of integration. designing a reform package for european political parties as a means of mobilizing the democratic energies of individual and organized citizens is not an easy task, not least due to the eu’s systemic complexity. but this may be turned into an advantage, should one clarifies the ‘constitutive mission’ of european political parties and how an informed and principled dialogue on their political development can facilitate the emergence of a plural demos, whose members can direct their democratic claims to, and via, the central institutions. strengthening european political parties is a means of enhancing participatory governance in the eu and finally strengthening democracy.
in writing. − in favour. the rapporteur has suggested that one of the key challenges in relaunching the single market is ensuring political leadership, commitment and coordination. the 50 proposals for relaunching the single market encompass numerous portfolios, crucially involving the competences of several commissioners in the commission and touch upon jurisdiction of various committees in the european parliament. in the council the single market act is furthermore split into different council configurations whose role and effectiveness vary a great deal. national institutions also differ a lot in the ways that they are configured and in their organisational cultures.
in writing. − in favour. on 11 november 2010, the commission adopted a communication proposal to renew europeans’ trust in the single market. this single market act will be under discussion until 28 february 2011. the overall approach proposed by the commission is a continuation of the report by mario monti to the president of the european commission, ‘a new strategy for the single market’. its purpose, in accordance with article 3 of the treaty on european union, is to strengthen ‘a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress, and a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment’ by placing companies, especially smes, and europeans at the heart of the single market. the commission communication ‘towards a single market act for a highly competitive social market economy — contains 50 proposals for improving our work, business and exchanges with one another’ and specially the chapter ii ‘restoring confidence by putting europeans at the heart of the single market’ contains 19 initiatives on the social dimension of the single market.
in writing. − i voted in favour. in october 2010, the commission adopted a communication entitled ‘towards a single market act’ to re-launch the single market. in the first part of this communication, the commission proposes a number of actions to have stronger, sustainable and equitable growth for business. today, europe has become the world’s biggest economy. the single market is the cornerstone for businesses and consumers alike, but it can offer more growth and jobs, and its full potential is yet to be seen. essential attention should be paid to smes, which have the highest potential for further development and increased employment.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on the lessons to be drawn for nuclear safety in europe following the nuclear accident in japan.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we need energy to eat, to travel, to study, to cure diseases and for many other things. that energy has always come from different sources. in some cases, the older ones, such as hydraulics, fossil fuels and even nuclear energy; in others, the more modern ones, such as renewables. and, in addition, there are technologies in development, to give more security, in some cases, or to give more efficiency, as in the case of renewables. and then there are the research that has not yet been applied, such as coal storage, or the research that would lead us to fusion. all this is necessary because, ladies and gentlemen, people's lives have been made to work and develop on the basis of constantly improving the resources they have used and the research that has made it possible. communication, energy, medicine, research, are all based on this: on a constant improvement of all resources. the recent tsunami and earthquake that followed have caused enormous damage to the people of japan, in terms of casualties, missing persons and material losses, as well as enormous damage to the fukushima nuclear power plant. in view of all this, what we have to do is improve security. tomorrow, in this house, a joint resolution will be voted on which we have agreed the vast majority of the parliamentary groups. it expresses what unites us, not what divides us. i ask the groups to stick to the content of that proposal and not to put their own interests ahead of the common interests, the common opinion we have reached on that proposal. that's our responsibility for tomorrow.
mr president, first of all i would like to express my deep solidarity with the victims and also with the families evacuated as a result of the nuclear accident. the lesson to be drawn from this accident is the urgent need to strengthen safety measures. but security also comes from human resources. we need to ensure the best possible level of training for staff working in the sector. we need to make sure the working conditions are exquisite. ladies and gentlemen, creating an excellent training and employment framework is something that we can do from within the european institutions. i would also like to stress the commitments we have made as a group in our energy plan for europe, which involve a strong commitment to renewable energy, infrastructure, energy efficiency and electric mobility. and in this context, i think we should also reopen the debate on coal, because it's our only indigenous source of fossil energy.
the presidency has been informed that today is mr leinen’s birthday, so happy birthday, mr leinen.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, the question of longterm energy policy. we would like to invite you to participate in the energy roadmap from day one. that is why i am inviting the political groups to discuss, from may onwards, various scenarios for europe's energy economy over the next few decades. a scenario, i.e. an option with all the necessary implications, will certainly also mean to install the share of renewable energy in the electricity conversion as high as possible, if not even 100%, with implications for grids, storage, research, efficiency and other. i would also like to ask that the legal bases be respected. the treaty of lisbon is only a year and a half old. you were more involved in its creation than i was. this treaty gives the european union full legislative powers in the energy sector, with one single, far-reaching exception, which has been deliberately set out: the question of energy technology, of the energy mix, remains a matter for the national parliaments. it is possible to argue whether this was correct, but it is clear that i must draw the conclusions from the incidents in japan for the energy road map on the basis of the lisbon treaty, and i think that at the moment an amendment to article 194 is unrealistic for the time ahead. i would like to see it, and i also believe that the european level has sufficient expertise on the energy mix. but for the next few years the energy technology issue will be a matter for the member states in the field of electricity conversion. there is one limitation, however. we have achieved this with the member states. the 20% renewable energy target limits the member states' competence to 80%. the fact that we must and will achieve 20% renewable energy in nine years, with the will and willingness of the member states, and that we will always check this by means of progress reports, reduces the member states' responsibility to 80%. no, even less than that. why would you do that? because the 20% over everything in transportation will mean maybe 10% renewable energy. in the field of electricity, which is the focus of attention today, we are aiming for a share of renewable energy of 35% in just nine years - water, biomass, geothermal, solar and wind energy. this means that in three to four years, renewable energy will have overtaken coal and nuclear power in the electricity sector. i believe that this is also a development process that cannot be overestimated. 35% renewable energy in nine years! the energy roadmap will in any case not only be looking at 2050, but 2025 or 2030, the next decade, where we need to invest now in technology, pipelines and storage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. once renewable energy reaches 40% or more, the member states will be left with 60% or less, and we are moving forward on the subject of competence at european level with the knowledge and will of the member states. this may not be fast enough for some, but even without changing the lisbon treaty - which would not be realistic at the moment - this target is 20%, which equals 35%, later 40% or more of renewable energy. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the member states are not able to meet the energy needs of the community. i take for example the great country poland, which i hold in high esteem and which is on the way up. in poland, 90% of electricity is currently produced from coal. ninety percent of the time! i think it is unlikely and therefore i ask the members of parliament from all parties here from this great emerging eu member state, poland: do you think that in your country, the policy - no matter who is in power - will push coal to zero percent in the next few years and decades? i don't believe it was him. in poland, for example, a new nuclear power plant is currently being planned. it is said that the polish partners also want to use nuclear power to supply part of their energy mix, with the aim of being less dependent on gas and thus less dependent on the russian federation. but, mrs harms, this government was democratically elected and is highly respected in your country. we germans in particular should not think we know better. i trust my polish friends with security considerations as firmly as i trust you with them. (applause from the right) mr president of the group of the european people's party, we are already inclined to want to make germany the leader of europe. my advice is to respect and accept, with sufficient humility, democratic processes in poland and also in france. i speak as a european who knows his home country, germany, and who respects democratic processes in poland, france and every other member state. i said that those who have 90% coal will find it more difficult to go to zero. so in my plan, carbon-free coal is another option. if you know poland, romania or spain, you must also give coal an option in the energy roadmap 2050, otherwise you are missing the realities of democratically elected parliaments and governments. that is why i consider the subject of ccs research and demonstration projects to be very important in the pursuit of another objective, namely to achieve a co2-free energy economy in the next few decades. we have set out in mrs hedegaard's road map for the energy sector in 2050 a 10% reduction in co2 emissions compared to today. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) as far as nuclear power plants are concerned, you and i both know: there are countries which currently have a moratorium on nuclear power stations or want to shut them down, such as germany. there are neighbouring countries that have put off planning new nuclear power stations - switzerland for example - but there are also countries where nuclear power stations are under construction - finland, there are countries that have nuclear power stations and are planning new ones, and there are countries that do not have nuclear power stations and want to start building new ones. i therefore think it is great and important that despite all these differences and different cultures of stress testing, the safety check should be universalised to the highest standards and accepted by all member states. it is a small but crucial common denominator for a maximum level of security, for countries with nuclear power as well as for countries without nuclear power. it is said that the authorities should be independent. we have public control and supervision in all areas of life: health, safety, road transport, energy, industry and other areas. i want to express my confidence in the principle of public oversight. mrs harms, if you are making a blanket statement and talking about pappenheimers and suggesting that a national nuclear watchdog is not up to its legal duties, then i consider this to be serious and also a declaration of distrust towards your colleague mr trittin, who was responsible for this watchdog in germany for seven years as federal minister for the environment. so, i have a basic trust in these authorities. and we're mandated to work with them. i will present to you in may, in full transparency, the draft stress test and the test criteria before the decision. i would be interested in your suggestions for improvements, additions or tightening up, with the aim of starting a process which will eventually lead to broad acceptance by all member states and a high degree of control. for the first time, this stress test, which the heads of state and government have asked us to carry out, has given us a common european approach to maximum safety at all 143 nuclear power stations. this is a new development which should be supported by parliament and not be criticized or mistrusted in the first place. one last point: i have adopted a nuclear safety directive from june 2009. this must be implemented by july of this year. i am quite frank with you: it is not enough for me in substance, because it is concerned first of all with formal regulations, defines responsibilities, sets out the authorities' requirements, but it is not enough for me in substance. i therefore want to speak to you in parallel with the safety check in the second half of the year, in accordance with the mandate of the european council, about how we can make an early, rapid amendment to this safety directive and make substantive proposals in the field of nuclear safety at european level. (applause from the centre)
the president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the house, that was a very informative discussion. thank you very much. i've been following you very closely. the hungarian presidency started this semester with very serious ambitions in the field of energy policy. we had no ambition to get anywhere near the energy mix. i think that this discussion today has shown that there is no realistic objective. there have been many arguments for and against some kind of guidelines for the energy mix in the european union. i think that we will not be able to reach a consensus in the foreseeable future, but i am not sure that this is a problem, so member states should be able to make responsible decisions about their own energy mix. but we had the ambition to make real progress towards a common energy market. this is what the european council of 4 february 2011 set out to do, and to eliminate energy islands within the european union by 2015, and then we were able to adopt the council conclusions at the energy council at the end of february, and i think that's a big step forward. the commission will publish its energy roadmap to 2050 in november, as we know. however, at the informal energy council in budapest on 2 and 3 may, ministers responsible for energy will hold a preliminary discussion on the targets and a report will be prepared by the presidency, a policy summary, which will be on the agenda of the formal energy council in june. these questions, which have been raised in this chamber, will certainly be raised in the council debate, and i am confident that when the hungarian presidency sums up this debate, the commission will be able to build on it when it finalizes the energy roadmap which it will publish in november. but the fact that the member states are fully committed to both nuclear safety and a common european framework is best demonstrated by the conclusions of the european council of 24 and 25 march. these conclusions emphasised the need to learn from the japanese disaster, to review the safety situation of nuclear power plants in the union and to carry out stress tests. ensreg and the commission were invited to do so as soon as possible, to propose their scope and modalities, and then, on the basis of the assessments of these independent authorities, to prepare a general assessment to be carried out and made public by the commission. and finally, the european council itself will be revisiting the subject at its last meeting in 2011. the heads of state or government also stressed that nuclear safety should not be confined to the european union and that we would ask those living in our neighbourhood to carry out these stress tests. it was also said that the highest possible standards in nuclear safety were needed and the european council has given the commission a serious task which i am sure, as the commissioner has said, the commission will carry out with the utmost commitment. so as lively as the debate was today, there are some common points on which i think we can all agree: to have a common european framework, to do everything at all levels to ensure the highest possible level of security, and to do this in a transparent way, with maximum publicity. the council stands ready to cooperate with both the european commission and the european parliament on these principles.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria, bahrain and yemen. the high representative will be represented by the president-in-office of the council, mr németh.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i am here today to present to you some remarks on behalf of the high representative, catherine ashton, on the situation in bahrain, syria and yemen. events have recently taken a dramatic turn in syria. in yemen an already dire situation may well get worse and the very tense atmosphere which now prevails in bahrain is of serious concern, even if the bloodshed there has been less. the eu has been following the rapidly unfolding events in the entire region very attentively, as confirmed by numerous high-level meetings, formal statements and council conclusions. more than this, baroness ashton has been maintaining constant contact with key partners, as well as with key players in the countries themselves. this is being done every day directly by phone or through her representatives in the countries in question, in order to bring the eu’s influence to bear wherever this is possible and whenever it can help. every country’s situation is unique and demands a strategic, carefully thought-out, well-tailored reaction. but when events move so fast it is all the more crucial to build sound policy on solid fundamental principles. let me site three principles: first, the rejection of violence – mass protests must always be dealt with peacefully and with full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms; secondly, the promotion of dialogue – differences and grievances must be addressed in a constructive manner by the right people being ready to talk to each other, setting aside prejudices and preconditions; thirdly, fundamental political and economic reforms must come from within the countries, and the eu has made it very clear that it is ready to provide prompt support as and when requested. allow me now to move more specifically to the three countries before us. in bahrain, in spite of some return to normality on the streets the situation remains tense. arrests are continuing, with individuals being seized for having apparently done no more than exercise their right to freedom of expression. just as elsewhere in the region, the eu and the high representative herself have condemned the violence in bahrain outright and called on the authorities and all forces present to respect fully human rights and fundamental freedoms as well as international humanitarian standards. we have also repeatedly urged the bahraini authorities and the opposition to start a genuine national dialogue. the high representative has spoken with the foreign minister directly to this end. without concrete steps to get all the right people to talk to each other without exclusions and without preconditions there is an increasing risk that radical elements will prevail. this would have clear and worrying implications for regional stability. the best way to preserve and promote stability remains dialogue. this is the message that the high representative will be taking with her when she meets the ministers of the gulf cooperation council very shortly this month. in syria, popular protests have spread over a number of cities since mid-march. the brutal repression with which they have been met is unacceptable. the high representative and the european union have made numerous calls on the syrian authorities to stop the violence, respect people’s right to demonstrate peacefully and to listen to their legitimate aspirations. the syrian people deserve long-awaited political reforms, notably in relation to freedom of expression, assembly, political participation and governance. president assad’s address to the nation on 30 march provided for neither a clear programme for reform nor a timetable for its implementation. the eu will continue to press syria on delivering reforms without delay. they must be real, political as well as socio-economic, serious – not just cosmetic – and to be implemented without further delay. we will be monitoring very closely how the new government, still to be formed, will take reforms forward. we hope that the formation of a legal committee will result in the drawing up of new legislation to allow for the lifting of the state of emergency and guarantee human rights and fundamental freedoms. at the same time, the eu will continue to press the syrian leadership in public and private to refrain from using force against demonstrators. equally important is to convey that those responsible for the violence and the fatalities must be held accountable and that all political prisoners and human rights defenders must be released. in yemen, the situation remains of the utmost concern. the high representative’s messages, following the deplorable violence on 18 march, were crystal clear and the foreign affairs council’s conclusions on 21 march reiterated the eu’s condemnation of the use of force against protesters. the eu also stated unequivocally that those responsible for loss of life and injuries should be held accountable for their actions and brought to justice. since then, the messages coming from the yemeni leadership have been less clear. for this reason, the high representative called president saleh directly on the phone on 30 march urging him to do everything possible to avert further bloodshed. she stated her view that the best way to ensure this is for a credible and rapid political transition to begin without delay. that constitutional transition should be founded on substantive and consistent commitments which are properly followed through. time is running out and the victims will be the yemeni people. this is why, in close concert with international partners, the eu has been, and will remain, very actively involved in trying to defuse the crisis in yemen.
mr brok is here with mr salafranca. i'd like to congratulate him on the success of his team yesterday. he's wearing the schalke 04 scarf, a splendid victory, but achieved with the help of one of the best players in the world, the spaniard raúl. that said, and with mr brok's congratulations, i now give the floor to mr salafranca, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, for a minute and a half.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i fully agree with the comments you have just made. mr minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that we have been following the high representative's continuous reports on developments in these countries and i think we should acknowledge the efforts she is making on behalf of the european union to support democratic aspirations in bahrain, yemen and syria. tomorrow this parliament will adopt a resolution supported by all the political groups in this regard. however, mr president, i would like to leave a couple of questions with the request, mr minister, that you take them to the high representative. firstly, from certain parts of the union and, of course, from this parliament, there is a feeling that we are witnessing a regression in the field of developments in european security and defence policy which are taking us back to the days of political cooperation. and, of course, we did not make the treaty of lisbon for that. secondly, there is a contradiction which arises and which refers to the growing need for a presence of the european union in these countries, without knowing what the final outcome of these transition processes will be. it is clear that we must be present, and it is also clear that the motto of mrs ashton's communication is very wise: more for more. but the question i want to leave open - and i will end, mr president - is whether the member states of the union are prepared to increase resources to meet these growing needs which are arising in these countries.
mr president, the historic and irreversible democratization shift in the arab countries has not ended with the still fragile transitions in egypt and tunisia or with the support, also historic, of the international community for the activation of the principle of the responsibility to protect the libyan population. the change is now continuing in syria, yemen and bahrain, and the european union must be present, it must learn from the precedents and it must take the lead in the international response, with far-reaching measures, commissioner füle, such as the well-defined european neighbourhood policy, and also with concrete and immediate measures, so that the people of these countries and also - why not? - the european citizens know that there is no crack in the european union's commitment to freedom, to dignity, to democracy and to human rights. the authorities in syria, yemen and bahrain should be reminded that the use of state violence against their populations has immediate consequences, and that the authorities in these countries should know that cosmetic changes in their autocratic governments are not enough, but that a process of dialogue with opposition movements, with civil society, the immediate release of political prisoners, journalists and human rights defenders and the immediate lifting of the states of emergency must be launched.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives! thank you so much for the pep talk. (the speech continues in english.) mr. president, allow me first to respond specifically to a few questions relating to bahrain. the question of iranian interference in bahrain's domestic affairs was raised. there is no hard evidence so far that iran has been meddling in the bahraini situation by provoking radicalization. clearly this is a risk, and one more good reason to start a national dialogue in bahrain as soon as possible to avoid that option. concerning the saudi invasion in bahrain, i would like to underline the fact that the six gulf cooperation council states have a collective security agreement amongst themselves. the presence of saudi and other gulf forces in bahrain was requested in the framework of that agreement and was provided for by more than one gcc member state. this is not merely a legalistic consideration. we have to take the regional dimension very seriously in our evaluation of developments in this region. concerning yemen, i would point out that the european union did suspend some assistance to yemen: for example, its assistance on civilian counter-terrorism. we thought that we needed to have a differentiated approach in this respect. allow me to speak now in hungarian to respond to some questions which have been raised. mr salafranca raised the question of the outcome of the transition. and in that regard, i want to emphasize that we don't know what the outcome of the arab spring will be. nobody knows, and a few months ago, we didn't know that such a domino effect could start. but i don't think it's written anywhere yet what the end result of this arab spring will be. so i think that's very much up to us. i would like to say to mr salafranca that we are very much responsible for the outcome of the arab spring. the suggestions that have been made here, i think, have been extremely useful. and i think that all the representatives of the commission here, and the representatives of the council and the foreign service, i think we have been very pleased with all the proposals that have been made. we're in the process of revising our neighborhood policy. and all of the suggestions that have been made here will be integrated into the review of the policy of laziness. so i think it's a very fortunate situation that there's not going to be an eastern partnership summit in budapest in a few weeks. because that gives us time to incorporate the proposals that have just been made into the review of the neighbourhood policy. i think it is very important that this neighbourhood policy should be uniform. the eastern and southern dimensions of this neighbourhood policy must be equally covered. and we can only be credible to our southern neighbours, who are very attentive to our every word, if we here in the european union are able to put together a coherent, well-thought-out neighbourhood policy. the proposals made here in the context of the neighbourhood policy, for example the last one mentioned by mrs dodds and mr rübig, emphasised civil relations the approach to neighbourhood policy includes a strong focus on civil relations, on citizenship relations, in particular relations with young people. indeed, the creation of new resources, and where appropriate the creation of new resources of a certain magnitude, should also be an important part of this review. at the same time, we must remember that each situation requires a different approach. there are countries where the imposition of sanctions, or the imposition of an arms embargo, or, in some cases, military action, has been inevitable. armed intervention is not only happening in libya's southern neighbourhood, but also in côte d'ivoire for the last few days. that's a separate topic we'll be discussing later tonight. but i don't think you can confuse these countries, where the civil war situation has made military intervention inevitable, with the countries we're talking about. although these are repressive countries, these are authoritarian repressive countries, they also dance and play with the use of violence. but i think the high representative has sent a very strong message to these countries in terms of their response to violence. and there has to be a very strong message to these countries, to all three countries, that the very military action that is taking place in libya and in côte d'ivoire. in the last few weeks, he has managed to put forward a very clear philosophy for the european and international community. the right to protect, the responsibility to protect: this is a new principle that has been applied recently by the international community, which should be a warning sign for yemen, bahrain and for everyone, for all authoritarian regimes in the region. what's happening now, the military interventions, they're not analogous to iraq, but they're analogous to rwanda or kosovo. when the international community had to act to protect civilians. and i think that the international community has a very strong message to send to those countries that are using violence against their citizens. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full role in the world. i should like to respond to some of the specific proposals in headlines only. i am forwarding to the high representative their proposal, which was a very unanimous and general proposal, to convene an extraordinary session of the un human rights council. in any case, this was an important and worthwhile point to be made in the debate. as i am conveying to the high representative, there is also a very clear and consensus view on arms exports that has been expressed here. i think that we need to strike a balance between cooperation and sanctions in these three groups of countries. it is a specific task, in any case, when it is not sanctions and not military intervention, but cooperation and, where appropriate, the application of sanctions of some kind, that are applied to a group of countries. i also think it is important, as mrs oomen-ruijten has said, that the european union should be able to rely very firmly on turkey when it is formulating its policy in the region. thank you very much for the discussions, thank you very much for the comments, the comments and the questions.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the fourth united nations conference on the least developed countries.
mr president, ten years ago in brussels, the donor countries agreed on an action plan for the least developed countries. it set targets for the elimination of extreme poverty in these countries. it is clear to all of us that the least developed countries are the ones who suffer most from the effects of global crises, whether economic and financial, environmental or due to the increase in food prices. however, ten years later, we have not achieved the objectives we set ourselves and only two of the 48 countries that are part of the bloc of those countries have managed to leave it. we are at a pivotal moment. the next united nations conference in istanbul will review the work done and establish a new plan of action. we must renew our commitment to the least developed countries and show that in ten years we have learned the lessons of the previous period and are in a position to provide effective and quality aid that will enable us to meet our objectives not in 2021, but in 2015, with the achievement of the millennium goals.
i regret, commissioner, that the council is not present in this debate today. i shall make three points in relation to our neighbours to the south. firstly, the european union must accompany and encourage the processes of democratic change. in the past, concern for stability was used by the neighbouring authorities to justify their immobility. secondly, i want our neighbours to the south to prosper economically. this requires a lot of reforms, investment, economic and financial aid and trade, not only with the north but also with the south, which is currently non-existent. i am concerned about the line taken by the commission and the high representative - read their article in the new york times of 18 march - which seems to advocate the specialisation of these countries in export agriculture to european markets. i disagree. commissioner füle knows that, although he seems to shake his head. these countries need diversified economies and agriculture. i repeat, diversified. they must also meet their internal food needs and not be limited to a few export products, which are also a cause of concern for european farmers. so, on this subject, common sense and prudence. thirdly, we must revitalize the union for the mediterranean and its projects, which can contribute to the economic modernisation of the mediterranean countries. unfortunately, the upm remains blocked and there is a vacuum in its general secretariat, and it cannot continue to be hijacked by the lack of progress between israel and palestine. ladies and gentlemen, the challenge is too great.
mr president, mr president of the european investment bank, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate mr cutaş on his excellent report. the european investment bank has to do more, better and faster. while it plays an important role in providing financing for the development of projects in all sectors of the economy, in the interests of the european union, its responsibility has increased with the crisis. the crisis has created difficulties in accessing credit and has underlined the need for a profound reorientation of our economic model. the eib's role is critical. to do so, it must maintain a high level of solvency and sound financial conditions enabling it to access resources on the capital markets on favourable terms and to have instruments enabling it to carry out necessary projects which would not otherwise be financed by commercial banks and for which it would be difficult to find favourable conditions. it is good to note that in 2009 the eib increased its operations by 40%, sme lending by 55%, lending to less developed regions by 36%, and lending to combat climate change and energy efficiency by 73%. however, much remains to be done and sustainable, long-term funding is still needed to make the european union's strategic objectives possible. the crisis has reduced the availability of this type of financing. that is why we need to promote eurobonds. it is necessary to develop new instruments and developments in financial engineering and to establish a platform with other international financial institutions. this should be accompanied by an improvement in its own governance and a review of its internal mandate. in short, it must be a good bridge between investment and the needs of the european union.
mr president, the blue tongue has been a constant threat to our livestock and with it also to our public health. a disease we were fighting through the activated vaccine, the use of which involves the creation of restricted areas for the movement of animals, because the use of these vaccines can cause unwanted circulation of the virus in uninfected animals. for these reasons, the use of the vaccine, the use of vaccination, was limited to those areas where infected animals had been found previously, creating a double harm for farmers there: on the one hand, the disease and, on the other hand, the restrictions. but all these problems seem to be avoidable through the new inactivated vaccine, which, in addition to avoiding the disturbances that can be caused in the internal market for livestock, allows the development of new and broader strategies - which is what is really important - of prevention in the fight against this disease. it is therefore vital for this sector that we amend the directive to allow its use and, moreover, that we do so as soon as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, if you will allow me i will try to answer several questions that were raised in this petition. i would like to thank mrs mazzoni for bringing up this question so we can clarify our position on this matter. first, i would like to assure the house that the commission monitors the quantity of tomatoes imported from morocco closely, attentively, using a cross-checking system based on designation of quantities, imported by moroccan operators and daily import records kept by national customs authorities. the commission until today does not have any proof of systemic fraud or systemic failure of the system that was put in place. we have the information concerning one case, to which i will come back a little later. this is related to the year 2007, when olaf indeed emphasised that the system as it stands at present could result in opportunistic behaviour but not necessarily involving irregular behaviour. it is recalled that the application of the entry price system and the levying of possible import duties in connection with this mechanism are the exclusive competence of the customs authorities of the member states. another aspect to this question, which is quite important, is the international context of this matter, something that is really dominated by the doha round, which has not yet been completed. any change to the entry price system and its current application mechanism could have a detrimental impact on the results achieved so far. the new bilateral agreement with morocco preserves the interests of the european producers by maintaining the system of monthly tariff quotas of tomatoes and strict control of the quantities imported. in addition, the agreement provides for improved cooperation and greater transparency in terms of market data in the fruit and vegetable sector. the quantitative increase in the tomatoes quota has been limited to 52 000 tonnes, which is well below traditional trade levels, and the increase is progressive and staggered over four marketing years thereby preserving current market shares and the traditional supply to the european union. the commission therefore considers that any change to the current entry price system must respect the terms of the relevant international agreements. the commission ensures that the regulation is properly applied and therefore has carried out the investigation through olaf. this is probably the case mrs mazzoni is referring to, whether there are irregulatirities as a result of incorrect interpretation of the implementing regulation. however, it is the responsibility of the national customs authorities to follow up on the results of the investigation. recuperation is in progress but the publication of the data is strictly the responsibility of the competent customs authorities. as regards the organisation of surveillance; this was one of the items that was raised by mrs mazzoni. here, i have to say that the commission, as i said, monitors tomato imports from morocco using a cross-checking system. the quantities imported and reported by the moroccan authorities on a weekly basis are monitored. the data is then compared with the data provided by the national customs authorities, who survey the system, and also by eurostat. i think that we have very good and precise information and, if there were some systematic fraud and systematic irregularities, we would definitely spot it and take action.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the committee on petitions for the work it has done following the complaint lodged by the spanish federation of associations of exporting producers of fruit, vegetables, flowers and live plants (fepex), based on the report published in 2007 by olaf, the union's anti-fraud agency. i think the conclusions of that report are very clear and amply justify the fact that the european commission should have started work long ago to clarify the operation of the entry price system as far as the tomato sector is concerned. however, not only has the commission failed to act to remedy possible pitfalls which the entry into force price regulation may create, but it has negotiated a new agricultural agreement with morocco without first resolving the shortcomings of the existing import regime. ladies and gentlemen, it is high time that the european commission took its responsibilities seriously and started investigating where fraud is taking place and eventually asked for the recovery of unpaid customs duties. i think that in no way should a new agreement with morocco be ratified without the details we have outlined being worked out. our aim is not to stop the signing of international agreements, but to ensure that these agreements do not seriously damage the interests of european productions and that the rules laid down in these agreements are respected. as regards the new agreement with morocco, the european fruit and vegetable sector is only asking for guarantees that the agreed measures will be effectively implemented, and this is only possible through the reform of the entry price system. until we have a new system of entry prices, we cannot have a new agreement with morocco. we cannot ratify that agreement which has already been concluded by the commission. it is also true that we have been calling for a long time for a european border and customs system, like the one in the united states, to ensure effective control.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, last october i tabled a written question to the commission concerning the discrepancies between the figures in the different eu services on the eu import of tomatoes from morocco. in 2008, there were about 100 000 tonnes in difference between dg taxud and eurostat. the commission answered that it had observed the problem and was solving it, but it is not clear to me whether the commission will achieve what european citizens and european producers deserve. in the european union we import tomatoes not only from morocco but also from other third countries. we should find a way for negotiations to be very fair to everyone and not at the expense of the european agriculture sector. we should also find a way to control what we are importing from other countries outside the eu, especially in some northern european ports. without effective border controls, the european agriculture sector will have a very difficult future. if european production of tomatoes is damaged by the eu-morocco agreement, it will be very difficult to regain production on eu soil. the rules and the obligations should be applied to everyone, which means fair competition. what we cannot accept is the application of different rules and duties to a european producer and an agricultural producer outside the eu. accepting this means accepting the loss in competitiveness of our agricultural sector and a huge effect on the labour force in europe. i am in favour of free trade, but under symmetric conditions of production and information. if they do not exist, free trade is not fair trade and competition is not fair competition. finally, i do not think that parliament should ratify the eu-morocco agreement without the inclusion of clauses concerning the labour market, the social dimension and the environment in morocco. if this does not happen, we may lose our european farming activity and our food chain industry.
mr president, the tomato growers of the canary islands, murcia, andalusia and the valencian community, all community producers, need the commission to act decisively in the face of an unfair situation which is causing them serious damage. there is fraud, and you know it. morocco, thanks to the agreement with the european union, benefits from an entry price which it does not comply with. moreover, we must not only look at 2007, but also at 2010. the commission is well aware that spanish tomato growers have to compete with moroccan producers under discriminatory conditions, bearing much higher production costs as a result of the strict european rules on food safety and quality standards or labour standards, or of plant health restrictions which are not required of third countries. however, our farmers, with enormous effort and quality, continue to work hard to save their crops. but what is unacceptable is that the commission ignores the malfunctioning of the entry price system, whose complexity encourages fraud, as olaf itself has pointed out, and that the commission looks the other way when it fails to comply with the tomato quotas agreed with morocco. it is not enough for the commission to tell us that it is the member states who are responsible for monitoring. if they fail to meet their obligations, the commission has to act. what is not acceptable is that the rules on the volumes imported from morocco are violated without the corresponding customs duties being paid, and that the commission does nothing. the commission wants us to approve a new agreement with morocco. we cannot count on them until they guarantee that the price system will be changed so that moroccan products will no longer be in unfair competition with spanish products. it is their duty to ensure that the agreements are respected, but in any case it is their duty to defend the interests of farmers in the canary islands, murcia, the valencian community and andalusia. do it now, before it's too late!
mr president, since 2003 there has been a demand for amendments to the entry price regulation. this was requested by this parliament, the member states, spain and france, supported by italy, greece and portugal. the reason: an improper application of the regulation, according to which certain duties are no longer paid and an appropriate method of calculation is applied. the consequence is that the sector is harmed, unfair competition is created and less customs duties are collected by the states. this has been noted by the special body of fruit and vegetable inspectors, which points out that article 5 of this regulation allows for a biased use, and, as has been stated here, by olaf, the european union's anti-corruption agency, which says that the calculation method used avoids the payment of the additional duties. it is up to the commission to provide a solution. we must find a solution, a solution for the production system and a solution for the member states. this situation has existed for 16 years! the sector is affected, the european fruit and vegetable sector, the spanish, valencian, murcian and andalusian fruit and vegetable sectors are affected, and there must be a solution. consumers are suffering too.
mr president, as the fepex petitioners have said, the commission must amend - and i repeat the request made by spain and some other member states - certain articles of the regulation to which we are referring. as regards the method of calculation for setting the entry price, it is necessary to eliminate one of the three current methods, namely the so-called 'deductive' method. this is the most necessary change, considering that importers choose the method that interests them most at any given time, in order not to pay the additional duties. now that the entry into force of the new agreement with morocco is pending the approval of this parliament, the best argument the commission could make would be to correct the system once and for all. we are insisting on this again today, because the proper functioning of entry prices is the logical counterpart that our farmers can expect when it is decided to bring them into force.
mr president, i think that in the past the experience of business as usual has already brought us a lot of misfortune. we must be very cautious here, especially in relation to the situation in the maghreb region. and that is precisely why i join those who have said that, in the present circumstances, it is very little relevant to go ahead with the trade agreement with morocco. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on fisheries, i think it is necessary to clarify very well how things are going in the current framework, to ask clearly that the tomato or the product whatever that comes into the european union comes under the same conditions as those required of local producers and, if that is not a guarantee, if that is not guaranteed, we should, and we must - and that is what i hope this house will also make us think about - rethink the framework as a whole. i think we are faced with a need, not to opt for a protectionist policy, but to opt for clear commercial justice. and we need to be clear about the framework, so that we can know and act in the most responsible way possible.
mr president, i must thank all the colleagues who are understanding the mediterranean problem, the spanish delegation and all those who understand that the canary islands, murcia, valencia and almeria, in addition to being frustrated because the commission does not comply with its agreements, and having had to close many businesses, are still the point of reception for migrants from sub-saharan africa, the point of reception for migrants from morocco and the cushion in the face of the crisis, since we are maintaining, in a time of absolute economic need, people who come to work and can pay back an income to their families. i therefore believe that the commission must also be responsible with the powers conferred on it by the treaties, and it seems to me that it has not yet reflected on the need to defend the interests of citizens; not to open the door to an indiscriminate policy where, in addition, it makes us import products produced under highly doubtful plant health conditions.
in writing. − i voted in favour. bluetongue is a disease affecting ruminants such as cattle, sheep and goats. since the early 2000s, several epidemic waves of disease have occurred in many member states, including in central and northern europe, causing significant losses in terms of morbidity, mortality and disruption of trade in live animals. council directive 2000/75/ec of 20 november 2000 lays down specific provisions for the control and eradication of bluetongue, including rules on vaccination. these rules were designed for the use of ‘live attenuated vaccines’ that were the only vaccines available when the directive was adopted a decade ago. those vaccines may lead to undesired circulation of the vaccine virus in unvaccinated animals. for this reason, directive 2000/75/ec allows vaccination only in specially designated zones in which the disease has occurred and which have been subject to animal movement restrictions. in the last few years, however, new inactivated vaccines have become available. unlike the ‘live attenuated vaccines’, these inactivated vaccines do not pose the risk of undesired vaccine virus circulation and could therefore be successfully used outside areas subject to animal movement restrictions.
in writing. − i voted against. i am extremely glad that, in the end, the pro-nuclear lobby has failed. it is completely incomprehensible that the ppe group and others voted against saying that zero risk does not exist, against a progressive phase-out starting now, against going towards a near-100% energy-efficient renewables economy by 2050, against a nuclear-free future for europe, and so on. the final text was absolutely unacceptable, and i am glad the majority of the house supported us greens in rejecting the joint resolution.
in writing. − in favour. i support this claim by the ep that strongly condemns the violent repression by security forces of peaceful demonstrators in bahrain, syria and yemen, and extends its condolences to the families of the victims; expresses its solidarity with the people in those countries, applauds their courage and determination, and strongly supports their legitimate democratic aspirations. it also urges the authorities of bahrain, syria and yemen to refrain from the use of violence against protestors and to respect their right to freedom of assembly and expression; condemns the interference by the authorities in bahrain and yemen in the provision of medical treatment and the denial and limiting of access to health facilities; stresses that those responsible for the loss of life and injuries caused should be held accountable and brought to justice; and calls on the authorities to immediately release all political prisoners, human rights defenders and journalists and all those detained in relation to their peaceful activities in the context of the protests;
in writing. − in favour. with this resolution, the ep: 1. considers that ldc-iv should be result-oriented, on the basis of clear indicators and the objective of reducing the number of ldcs by half by 2020, combined with efficient and transparent monitoring and follow-up mechanisms; 2. believes that ldc-iv should focus on policy coherence for development as an important factor for policy shift, at national and international level; calls, therefore, for policy-making in all areas – such as trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and finance – to support the development needs of ldcs in order to fight poverty and guarantee decent incomes and livelihoods; 3. urges the eu to honour its commitments in terms of market access and debt alleviation; reaffirms the importance of reaching the oda target of 0.15 to 0.20% of gni for the ldcs, mobilising, for this purpose, domestic resources and, as a complementary measure, innovative financing mechanisms;
in writing. − in favour. with this resolution, the ep, among other things: welcomes the prospect of having as a new eu member a country with a strong democratic tradition and civic culture; underlines that iceland's accession to the eu will further enhance the union's role as a world-wide promoter and defender of human rights and fundamental freedoms; commends iceland for its good record in safeguarding human rights and ensuring a high level of cooperation with international mechanisms for the protection of human rights; supports the ongoing work to strengthen the legislative environment with regard to freedom of expression and access to information; welcomes, in this respect, the icelandic modern media initiative, enabling both iceland and the eu to position themselves strongly as regards legal protection of the freedoms of expression and information.
in writing. − in favour. this resolution basically says that the ep shares the assessment by the commission’s 2010 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and regrets that the council has not taken a decision on the opening of accession negotiations, as recommended by the commission for a second year in a row and in line with previous parliament resolutions. it is concerned at the current political situation, including the boycott of the national parliament by the opposition parties, and by the risk that these developments could adversely affect the country’s eu agenda and recalls its previous recommendation to the council to start the negotiations immediately.
in writing. − in favour. i join my voice to those who: 1. regret that the post election political deadlock was not solved peacefully and all diplomatic efforts to this end have not been not been successful; 2. condemn the tragic loss of life and properties in the post election violence and calls on mm gbagbo and ouattara to ensure the respect of human rights and the rule of law; and 3. call upon m ouattara and m gbagbo to take their responsibility in order to prevent any violence and post battle reprisals in the country and demonstrate their commitment to peaceful democratic transition.
in writing. − in favour. i join my voice to those that welcome the progress in relations between the eu and neighbouring countries within the enp and reaffirm the values, principles and commitments upon which the enp has been built, which include democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, a market economy, sustainable development and good governance; consider that the enp is still a framework of strategic importance for deepening and strengthening relations with our closest partners so as to support their political, social and economic reforms, and underline the importance of maintaining the principle of joint ownership in the design and implementation of programmes and actions.
in writing. − in favour. the ep reaffirms the values, principles and commitments upon which the enp has been built, which include democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for women’s rights, good governance, the market economy and sustainable development, and reiterates that the enp has to become a valid framework for the deepening and strengthening of relations with our closest partners so as encourage and to support their political, social and economic reforms, which are designed to establish and consolidate democracy, progress and social and economic opportunities for all; emphasises the importance of maintaining the principles of shared responsibility and joint ownership in the conception and implementation of enp programmes; considers that since its launch in 2004 the enp, as a single policy framework and through its performance-driven differentiation and tailor-made assistance, has brought tangible benefits both for enp partners and the eu.
in writing. − in favour. although it is not a text that we, as greens, would have drafted ourselves, we thought the text acceptable enough to vote in favour of it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i believe it is simply outrageous that the tibetans living in kathmandu did not get permission to vote in the elections because of pressure from china. the pressure china is putting on nepal, preventing refugees from enjoying a minimum level of rights under international law, is something that we as the european union should condemn. we should also express our concern at the fact that the chinese are preventing another country from providing people with humanitarian aid. it is important that the high representative, through the eu delegation in kathmandu, should closely monitor the situation. this is something we have been requesting for a long time now. bearing in mind the current situation, we cannot wait any longer. the pressure from china is something that we have to do everything we can to counter, and if we do not do it right now, when we are trying to launch this dialogue with the chinese, i am afraid that we will never do it.
mr president, perhaps because of the immediacy of yesterday's serious event in cuba, you have not heard of it, but apparently a cuban dissident, juan wilfredo soto garcía, was killed by the police in a public park in santa clara, cuba. i believe that, given the sensitivity of this parliament to the issue of human rights, the president should at least demand an independent inquiry to clarify the death of this cuban dissident.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is aware of the current situation in the fishing sector. fuel prices are one reason for the problems we have, but they are not the only reason. with reference to fuel prices, in order to address this situation, the commission encourages the member states to use fully the possibilities offered by the european fisheries fund. we have not used those possibilities. up to now the member states have used less than 20% of the overall allocation. the high fuel prices could be best addressed by the use of those eff measures that help to restructure the fishing fleet and add more value to fisheries products, thus improving prices. it is likely that fuel prices will remain high in the coming years. of course, last week the prices fell, but nevertheless we can expect prices to remain high. therefore the commission is reflecting, in the framework of the reform of the common fisheries policy and the financial regulation, on how to further incentivise less fuel-intensive fishing. the objective will be to encourage the adjustment of the sector and to increase its resilience to fuel prices. however, such an approach needs to respect the principle that financial assistance may not, under any circumstances, increase fishing effort. the best way to increase the resilience of the fisheries sector to fuel prices is to ensure that fishing levels are in line with maximum sustainable yield. this will lead to more abundant fish stocks in the mid-term. more fish mean more fishing opportunities, and that means higher revenues for the sector in general. with reference to the increase of the de minimis threshold, this is not a new issue. the commission conducted a study, back in 2008, analysing the effect of moving from the ceiling of eur 30 000 to eur 100 000 per beneficiary. the study concluded that we could not accept this proposal, mainly for three reasons. first, because such an increase would distort fishing operations towards more fuel-intensive technologies with greater negative impact on the marine environment. second, because larger and more fuel-intensive vessels would receive more funding than smaller and less fuel-intensive vessels. i do not think that anybody here would like to encourage the bigger vessels to use more fuel. the third reason is much more important, and some members of parliament have already mentioned it. many member states are now forced to implement austerity measures. therefore there would only be limited political support from member states for a proposal that could lead to an increase in public expenditure. even if the de minimis threshold was increased, many member states would not have the money to actually exploit this new opportunity to spend taxpayers’ money. if only some member states paid higher de minimis aid, this would distort competition and result in an uneven playing field for the fleets of different member states. this is the most important reason of all. as to the reduction of the fuel tax exemption of the fishing industry raised by the greens, we cannot accept that. this issue cannot be tackled appropriately by eu legislation alone, but needs to be discussed at a global level. taxing fuel taken up in eu ports alone would lead to massive competitive distortions, to the detriment of eu fleets. it would also harm eu ports, as many vessels would simply buy fuel outside the european union. that is why we urge the member states to use our funds.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, pending the proposals for the reform of the common fisheries policy, the group of the european people's party wishes to express once again its concern about the economic situation in the fisheries sector. until a proposal for a new common organization of the market in the sector is presented, the sector will have almost no room for manoeuvre in price formation: the import regime, many of which are derived from illegal fishing, will still mean unfair competition for eu production; new control obligations will require firms to mobilise more resources and the general crisis will not exactly favour a higher consumption of quality products. in addition, a new bullish fuel context is threatening companies that managed to survive the 2008 crisis. the new common fisheries policy envisages major reforms and, in this context, many companies may need liquidity to restructure or adapt in view of 2013, in a context of decreasing structural aid. we have therefore put this oral question and this motion for a resolution to this house, taking into account that this aid does not impose any costs on the eu budget and that, moreover, the increase in aid requested is far below the de minimis aid received by other sectors, such as the transport or agricultural sectors. we do not want to find ourselves in a situation like that of 2008, when we discussed the package of measures adopted in extremis by commissioner borg. and i would like to say something to the commissioner: it is true that there are member states which may or may not give this aid and that, in your opinion, this will create disparity, but more disparity is created, for example, with some member states which do not co-finance the european fisheries fund, and that is something generally accepted. what is needed is aid, and member states which want to defend their sectors can also defend them.
mr president, the fact that we have found a place to discuss this matter in this chamber, which has a very busy agenda, gives an idea of the importance which this house attaches to the rise in oil prices and how this affects the fisheries sector. since 2007, the increase has been 63% of the price of the barrel. it's down today, but i don't think it's back enough to be sustainable. the european socialists are concerned about the crisis affecting the sector and are convinced that the solution lies in a response from the eu which includes actions that have already been called for by meps and the governments of the various member states. we therefore call for the need to deal with this situation through an effective and fair mechanism capable of allowing emergency measures at eu level. the minimum measures were adopted in 2007. we are not asking you just for the minimum measures. we are asking you, commissioner damanaki, to consider opening up the european fisheries fund, to make it more flexible, because of the inability of some states - as you have acknowledged - to provide money and to solve the problem. i hope that the commission will be able to explore new ways, concrete proposals, to use the european fisheries fund to help the most affected segments of the fleet, which are small-scale fishing, shallow-sea fishing and also fishing in remote areas. i would ask you, commissioner, to consider the possibility of introducing into the cfp, as you have suggested, new measures to limit the 'over-dependence' of fisheries on fuel and to ensure the necessary improvement in the marketing of products, all this from the point of view of the sustainability you have mentioned, as well as environmental and social sustainability, but also from the other side, which is also important, which is the human side, that of fishermen who are suffering enormously. we consider this to be an urgent measure and we think that a temporary relaxation of the rules could give a breathing space to this sector, which has been badly affected.
mr president, urgent and concrete measures are needed to reduce the impact of the increase in fuel prices on the fisheries sector. the sector is working with increasingly scarce resources, receives increasingly lower prices and has significant competition from imports from third countries, which do distort the market. i therefore support the necessary measures which do not impose any costs on the european budgets. but given the dependence of the sector on fossil fuels and the new reform, efforts must be made to improve the energy efficiency of the fishing fleet, in addition to the efforts already made. because supporting research in this field is also a bet on profitability and an opportunity for sectors such as shipbuilding, in relation to the energy market, to have a future and to be able to reinvent themselves.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rise in oil prices is a structural trend, resulting from production limits in the face of increased global demand. its volatility in recent years has caused sharp shocks and made a gradual adjustment difficult. a response is therefore needed to halt the often sudden rise in costs in the fisheries sector and the deterioration of the sector's already difficult situation. when the regulation increasing the de minimis aid was adopted in 2007, it was considered that it would not affect trade and distort competition. these aspects need to be assessed and a more ambitious solution found in the light of the marine strategy framework directive, the europe 2020 strategy and the reform process of the common fisheries policy. i believe that a coherent response must increase the sector's structural adjustment capacity and at the same time help its most vulnerable members, especially small and medium-sized producers. to alleviate the situation in the sector in the short term, with measures such as the one the commissioner is proposing to mobilise and encourage the mobilisation of fisheries funds, seems to me to be a positive thing and i think it should be compatible with other measures and with long-term action towards greater sustainability.
mr president, the best thing about asking a question is that there is an answer, although in this case it can be considered, in a way, disappointing. the fisheries sector is clearly in crisis: fishermen's incomes are falling and in many cases it is difficult for them to continue their work. and we are not talking about covert subsidies or unsustainable practices; we are talking about difficulties that require our full support and we have repeatedly said that 'to repeat a just demand, as mr cadec has done, is not reprehensible, on the contrary, it is consistent'. no one has proposed increasing fishing effort; we do not understand why we should reject short-term measures in exceptional situations. we are simply asking the commission not to turn its back on a sector which needs urgent help, and that help today may be the increase in de minimis aid.
mr president, let us be clear: there is an urgent need for the european fishing fleets to restructure so as to move away from energy-intensive, environmentally destructive fishing vessels and gear and to adopt more benign practices that require less energy and are more sustainable in the long-term: environmentally, socially and economically. this is why i think that granting more public money to the fisheries sector in response to increased fuel prices would send the wrong signal during the reform of the common fisheries policy and would provide an incentive for vessel owners to use more powerful and more fuel-consuming engines. this is why i think it is a huge mistake. it has already been explained that there is no conjunctural or structural problem, and – let us be clear on this point too – current figures show that 70% of european fish stocks are overfished, so any measure we can take to reduce this overfishing would be a good measure. any measure that has the opposite effect would be an extremely bad measure to take.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this is a clear wake-up call and i think that this is really the language that europe needs. i must say a word of thanks from my side, in particular to the rapporteur, mr hökmark, for the hard work that he has done on the first radio spectrum policy programme. this is about information and technology and it is about making up your mind what position europe should take: the far east, the far west, in between there are a couple of important players in this game, but europe can indeed be the number one. the programme is essential for a digital europe and for the european economy and for our society as a whole. it is quite clear from this report that parliament shares the commission’s view on the importance of a coordinated and effective spectrum policy to meet broadband targets. and indeed it is vital to maintain and improve europe’s economic and competitive position and to maximise its social and cultural impact by enabling innovative services for the benefit of citizens. and i would like to add the term ‘cultural’ impact, as this is quite important. if we are talking about internet, it is one of the main instruments to give more opportunities to the members of europe’s community to have the inside knowledge and inside view of cultural impact. what was rightly mentioned is that this is a moment of choice. it is not any more a question of nice words, but now is the moment of truth and now we have to take our responsibilities. you cannot get a number one position, which is indeed the leader’s role, if you are not taking the choices that need to be taken. talking about the cultural aspects, it is that cultural element that i want to emphasise first, because i know that this has been a significant preoccupation of members of your parliament. by the way, i see a lot of synergies between the use of spectrum for the distribution of content and culture, especially talking about audiovisual media content and for wireless broadband. digital television and wireless broadband can develop successfully in parallel and we should not forget that broadband internet access also offers high cultural and social value. in addition, wireless is essential in areas currently deprived of such access. the proposal not only protects the existence, but also ensures the future development, of those valuable cultural and economic services which, by the way, produce rich media content and feed future data highways with attractive cultural offerings. of course, remaining obstacles such as interference on air or on cable tv will have to be solved; there is no doubt about that. we are all aware that broadcasting knows no borders. european union policies will need appropriate support in international negotiations and member states may also need assistance to negotiate with neighbouring non-eu countries. just through preparing the whole debate, i am of course already in contact with certain ministers in certain member states that are even more confronted with the neighbouring-country aspects. turning to the content of the report, the commission can support, sometimes subject to small modifications, almost all of parliament’s approach. the commission particularly welcomes and agrees with the position taken in the report on a couple of issues. firstly, the importance of spectrum for the digital agenda to provide all citizens with high broadband access. no doubt about that, we are completely on your side. number two: keeping under review the possibilities for additional spectrum to meet the growing consumer demand for wireless broadband. completely on your side and, even if your speed is perhaps a little bit higher, be assured that we are aware that that is the next step. thirdly, confirming 2013 as the date to free the 800 mhz digital dividend band, while recognising the need for derogations until 2015. so 2013 is the goal, but with a possibility of derogations until 2015, in exceptional technical circumstances as well as further derogations due to coordination issues with third countries, which i was touching upon earlier. fourthly, the coverage of other important union policies beyond electronic communications: here i am talking about the environment, transport or research and the need to make a substantial amount of spectrum available. fifthly, the importance of an efficient inventory of spectrum use, which is an essential part of building an effective and forward-looking policy programme. sixthly, the need to coordinate the promotion of eu policies at an international level and to support the member states in their negotiations with non-eu countries. there are a number of other important issues where the report is supportive or reinforces the commission proposal, and that is encouraging. on certain amendments, however, the commission has to be a bit more nuanced. on restructuring, the presentation of principles and objectives should not reduce the visibility of the principle of efficient use of spectrum, which should apply to all sectors to the greatest extent possible. another nuanced issue: while i understand the addition of the need to ensure sufficient spectrum for audiovisual services, that should not single out specific modes of delivery. another nuance between the commission and the rapporteur’s report concerns competition. reserving spectrum for new entrants may be an appropriate tool in certain cases, but with a view to avoiding unnecessary procedures; we would then be close to each other. another issue again involving just a nuance: while the compensation of migration costs by member states is a very important issue – no doubt about that – it must be in conformity with state aid rules. i think there is no difference between our points of view; it is something that has to be mentioned. the commission has slight difficulties in accepting just two proposals. number one: for spectrum already technically harmonised, an obligation to authorise its use by 2012 should not be replaced by the softer obligation to make such spectrum available. existing positions already require this, and we need to move to effective licensing of the spectrum: going forward and not going backward. a second issue that is different and that we have difficulty in accepting concerns spectrum for broadband satellite access; the commission wants to be able to actually ensure its availability. on both of those issues – to authorise and to ensure availability on both of those issues – there must be a solution to be found and i am certain that it could be found. just a couple of remarks to conclude. both parliament and commission recognise that an early adoption of the proposal is desirable, considering the importance of the work ahead to implement this programme. a clear statement is needed, the sooner the better. the commission will do its best to support the process and i am absolutely confident that parliament will engage in an early dialogue with the council to reach a rapid and a successful conclusion. time is running out. time is not our friend in this and, at the end of the day, if we want to have a solution and if we are backing the number one position called for by mr hökmark, then we need to go as quickly as possible in that direction.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to start by congratulating our colleague, mr hökmark, the rapporteur of this report, because his work is excellent and, in addition to being excellent, he has a huge vision for the future, which i think makes him especially valuable. but let me also congratulate, as he has, all the other speakers. the result of all this work has been the unanimous support for this report in the committee on industry, research and energy. we are certainly dealing with a report which is guided by an objective, which is nothing other than the way to improve the competitiveness of the european economy in a global world. this is the fundamental objective behind this report and i think it is extremely accurate in that respect. i shall not go into detail, but i would like to focus on two or three aspects which i think are fundamental. firstly, we are in a situation - and this report proposes it - in which wireless broadband, by allocating 800 mhz for mobile communications throughout europe, is going to be a reality, but the report goes much further, it looks further into the future. we're talking about the 700 mhz frequency band, which has extraordinary capacity also for mobile phones and mobile development. and in that sense, i think that is where the proposals made in the report should also be considered and evaluated very positively. and this is not a trivial matter: the spectrum of economic activities now represents 3% of gdp in europe and this is just the beginning. and i wanted to talk about the importance that the exponential growth of video is having as a communication element between different people and different institutions or companies. video now accounts for 40 percent of global traffic, and this is just the beginning. by 2014, it will account for 91% of end-user traffic. in that sense, the report is really an extraordinary vision of the future and that is why i think we must give it our full support the day after tomorrow.
madam president, madam commissioner, we should certainly congratulate ourselves today on having this debate. we have heard too often that spectrum planning and management is a technical matter and the exclusive competence of the states. today, thanks to the determination of this parliament during the negotiation of the telecommunications package, which was so magnificently conducted by our colleague catherine trautmann, this discussion on spectrum is where it should be, in the political sphere and in the sphere of the european union. their low public resource and cross-border dimension justify the added value of our intervention as eu legislators, but we should not view this process as a confrontation between the different uses we can assign to the frequency bands. the constant advancement of technology means that we can transmit more and more data with less use of spectrum and less interference. our aim must be to lay the foundations for dynamic planning which, in the light of technological progress, will make it possible to better match the different user groups and thus obtain a greater economic and social return from this valuable resource. and in this process we do not want to see winners or losers, but operators engaged in a process of continuous improvement of the use and allocation of spectrum, which is oriented above all to the social and economic development of the citizens.
mr president, commissioner, dealing with this report from parliament has been complex, mainly because it has involved these measures which require the approval of the world trade organisation, and so the preliminary proposal which the commission has sent to parliament is different from the one sent to geneva. we believe that it is necessary to help pakistan; we understand that trade preferences can be granted exceptionally, provided that they take account of the sensitivities of european industry, and in a very special way of the textile sector, which in regions such as the valencian community in spain is suffering severely from the consequences of the crisis. but this report has shown us that the measures that can be taken in the context of international trade are probably not dealt with with the urgency that these acts require, and we should learn from them for the future. helping pakistan, yes; but not with the original commission proposal, which does not take into account the effects on european industry of the deadlines for the application of sensitive products, and would even delay the application of these measures because they do not coincide with the text pending approval by the wto: we would be out of time. we therefore consider it unacceptable to maintain this proposal and we think we will have to vote against it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to denounce the death last sunday of the cuban human rights activist, mr juan wilfredo soto garcía, and i would also like to express my sincere solidarity with his family. according to the official version of the cuban government, his death is due to a pancreatitis, but according to the internal cuban dissent, the death of juan soto was due to a beating by the police of the communist castro regime. guillermo fariñas, who won the sakharov prize for human rights last year, has accused the cuban regime of the death of juan soto, especially the first secretary of the communist party, raúl castro. raúl castro is alleged to have incited his supporters to use violence against the opposition at the recently concluded 6th congress of the communist party of cuba and the cuban dissident pointed him out as responsible for this new murder. i want to condemn the death of juan soto garcía and denounce the lack of freedom and democracy in cuba.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that this year has been proclaimed by the united nations as the international year of chemistry, commemorating the centenary of marie curie's winning the nobel prize in chemistry. under the slogan 'chemistry: our life, our future', the aim is to raise awareness in society about the contribution of chemistry to our well-being. chemistry has made possible vaccines and antibiotics that have doubled our life expectancy and is fundamental to developing new sources of energy and improving nutrition. the chemical industry is also a strategic sector in europe, with 25 000 companies employing 5 million people directly and indirectly. that is why we in this parliament must do everything we can to make the world year of chemistry a success because, as marie curie said, 'we cease to fear what we learn to understand', and this year's celebration is a good opportunity to do that.
opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - madam president, year after year, the committee on women's rights and gender equality has been reiterating the need for the gender perspective to be incorporated into the whole budgetary procedure, at all stages, in order to have an impact on the progress of equality policies and, therefore, on equality between men and women within the european union. we therefore welcome both the special report drawn up by the court of auditors on vocational training measures financed by the european social fund and a study assessing the feasibility and options for integrating certain elements into the gender perspective. still, it is essential to keep making progress in it. we are concerned about the issues of payments in the daphne programme to combat gender-based violence and we hope that year after year there will be greater sensitivity and that we will really take into account the gender perspective in all and every one of the operational programmes carried out within the european union.
madam president, i would first of all like to express my satisfaction at seeing all the players in this discharge procedure finally gathered together. i would like to welcome in particular mr caldeira, president of the court of auditors, and mr becsey, representative of the hungarian presidency, and of course commissioner šemeta. in connection with the current discharge procedure, particularly with regard to the other institutions, which is my area of expertise, i would like to express my agreement with the steps that have been taken since the spanish presidency last year, when applying the lisbon treaty, decided that it was time to bring the necessary transparency and control, also of the council's accounts, up to date. the gentleman's agreement worked for the last century, but its basis has changed radically. i therefore thank the hungarian presidency for continuing its efforts to make further progress, recognising that in the discharge procedure the council gives advice or makes recommendations, but it is parliament, the only democratic institution of the european union, elected by direct suffrage of the european citizens, which decides and takes the final decision. we therefore welcome the efforts being made by both institutions - ours, well represented by mr welle - to provide us with a procedure appropriate for the 21st century, institutions which must be transparent and respond to the expectations of the european citizens. as rapporteur for the discharge for next year, i intend to continue to cooperate closely with the council in this regard, but for the time being the postponement remains necessary. i would like to conclude by expressing my concern about the incidents and irregularities observed in the management of the european economic and social committee, an institution which i consider to be essential at european level as a forum for institutional consensus between the three pillars of our productive and economic life, so necessary in this period of crisis, and this is reason enough to demand that its administrative management should therefore be as impeccable as that of the other institutions. that is why, in view of the decision by olaf to open an inquiry, and in view of the recent judgment of the general court annulling the call for candidates for the post of secretary-general of the eesc, my group clearly intends to ask for a postponement until the economic and social committee has had the opportunity to present to this parliament a plan or strategy to overcome the current situation of opacity and continuing irregularities, which reveal the need for urgent change.
the president of the council. - since i only have two minutes to react, i'd like to say a few things. firstly, i would like to reiterate that we are ready for a long-term agreement in the debate between the council and parliament. it's the only way to solve the problem. the problem of legitimacy, which was also mentioned by ms gräßle. i would like to say that i know about the parliament - i was here myself - it is a directly elected body, but there are legitimate leaders, ministers, in the council too. moreover, both bodies - one for recommendation and the other for final discharge - have an equal share in the discharge. in the tender we submitted, we separated the budget process from the closing process. i ask that a negotiating delegation be appointed on behalf of parliament and that a representative delegation be agreed on behalf of parliament at political level. it's not going to be helpful if we continue to have these problems. and in this, by the way, the paper that we handed over, the draft memorandum of understanding, it's also clear that we also need to clarify, and i think that will help the visibility between administrations, what is within the council's competence to report and what is not? and what is within the council's jurisdiction, they can actually ask us to publish. as for the national declarations - this has been raised several times - i propose that this be settled in the discussion on the financial regulation. i know there are suggestions. the complexity of the issue in each member state must of course be taken into account, but i say again that this will be a very important point of discussion in another process. and so thank you very much for speaking, mr. chairman, and i would ask you once again not to make a fuss about the relationship between the two final counting committees, the institution. let us sit down, negotiate and agree, and not reduce this problem to a correspondence debate between the secretariats-general and the bureaucracies.
member of the commission. − mr president, this debate confirms the broad common understanding between parliament and the commission on the way forward and on the need to improve our policies and programmes, bringing added value to eu citizens. i think we are moving in the right direction, and the issues you have raised concerning the introduction of management declarations, more automaticity in the application of sanctions and work on recoveries are really important subjects, on which the commission is working. i would like, in particular, to thank ms grässle for her work on the financial regulation. i think it is very important that the proposal submitted by the commission on the introduction of management declarations is finally approved because this issue is really about increasing the accountability of our member states, which are responsible for managing 80% of your budget. with streamlined and much more automatic application of the interruption of payments procedure, i think we will see, in the discharge for 2010, that the incidence of interruption of payments is growing and services are no longer afraid to apply this instrument in their work. we are also working with the member states on recoveries, and we submitted a lot of information to the rapporteur about the situation in relation to recoveries. i think that, working together, we can find ways of improving the situation here. of course, sanctions are a good thing but we also have to seek incentives, and this is an important subject in terms of facilitating our member states’ activity. we all agree that we have moved forward on simplification of our rules, and we have presented our views on this subject. these proposals will be taken into account when we are preparing new programmes for the next multiannual financial framework. i fully agree that our public procurement legislation is very complex, and a great many errors are occurring in the area of public procurement. that is why the commission has launched a public consultation on the simplification and improvement of public procurement rules, and i hope this will lead to a much simpler and more efficient system. with regard to the staff regulations, it is time to look at them once again, and my colleague maroš šefčovič is working on a revision of the staff regulations. this is, of course, a complex issue, and we have to take into account all those sensitive matters which are related to simplification, but the fact is that certain provisions in the regulations are really outdated and need to be reconsidered and revised. of course, the commission will reply formally to your recommendations in the follow-up report, to be presented after the summer, but, as you can see, we are already working hard to reinforce the management of the eu budget and improve the performance of our programmes. i am looking forward to our future cooperation.
i interrupt the debate for a moment to announce that today in the visitors' gallery is professor dagmar lieblová, president of the association of survivors of the theresienstadt concentration camp in the czech republic, whom we welcome. (applause) professor lieblová is in strasbourg with 28 students from prague and hamburg who have worked together on a two-year project to investigate the transfer of czech forced labourers from hamburg to the theresienstadt camp. his visit to our parliament was at the invitation of vice-president libor rouček and knut fleckenstein, and his project has received a european prize. many thanks to professor lieblová and her students for their great contribution to our better knowledge of european history and for their commitment to the moral values that inspire the union.
we continue the debate on the discharge for 2009 (39 reports).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
madam president, in paragraph 2 of article 9a, after the words ‘at the request of a member state’, we would like to add the phrase ‘any legal person or any association not having legal personality acting on behalf of the union industry’. the reason is to make this regulation consistent with other safeguards that we have approved, such as the south korea fta safeguard clause.
in writing. − grants the registrar of the court of justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this gants the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − i note that the court of auditors has once again drawn attention to a large volume of carryovers and cancellations of operational appropriations by several agencies in the financial year 2009. i also note the existence of unused budget lines and the high number of transfers in some of the agencies, and i would call on the agencies concerned to step up their efforts to improve financial and budgetary planning and programming.
in writing. − this postpones the closure of the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the 2009 financial year.
in writing. − this grants the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the 2009 financial year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2009 after having seen the court of auditors' analysis which states that its actions are legal and regular. i would like to highlight, among its activities, the adoption of a multiannual work plan.
in writing. − this grants the executive director of the community fisheries control agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the 2009 financial year.
in writing. − this grants the executive director of the european aviation safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre’s budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the executive director of the european chemicals agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the executive director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - having regard to the court of auditors' statement that it has sufficient assurance that the 2009 accounts of the european food safety authority are reliable and that the operations are legal and regular, and to the fact that on 5 may 2010 parliament gave its discharge to the executive director of the authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for 2008, i have supported this report. i also voted in favour because, although it should consolidate planning and monitoring of budgetary processes, i appreciate the need for the authority to ensure high quality independent advice to ensure that the union's safety standards are met with independence and scientific excellence in all matters with an impact on human and animal food safety and plant protection.
in writing. − this grants the executive director of the european food safety authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority’s budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving the management of the observatory for the financial year 2009. as in previous cases, the court of auditors has stated that its accounts are reliable, legal and regular. it should be noted that parliament approved the management of the fund in may. i think that its management is essential and i have welcomed the creation of the european information network on drugs and drug addiction, which allows for greater contact between national information networks and specialised centres to share good practice. i welcome the comparative table provided for 2008 and 2009, which has facilitated the analysis of the increase in its activities.
in writing. − this grants the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre’s budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i supported this report. the court of auditors has confirmed that the agency's accounts are reliable and that its operations are legal and regular. i value the approval of your multiannual plan for five years as a basis for my position, although, as the court of auditors has said, budgetary planning and management must be improved. however, the evaluation of its activities has been positive.
in writing. − this grants the executive director of the european maritime safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the court of auditors has stated that it has sufficient guarantees that the 2009 accounts of the european network and information security agency are reliable and that the operations are legal and regular, and as on 5 may 2010 parliament approved the management of the executive director's budget for the agency for the financial year 2008, while accepting that transparency should be improved both in the estimate and in relation to project holders, public procurement procedures and the monitoring of irregularities.
in writing. − this grants the executive director of the european network and information security agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the european railway agency for the financial year 2009 because parliament, in may, approved the discharge for its director. i do, however, agree with the report that the management of the appropriations carried over should be improved because they do not meet the budgetary annuity criterion, and i agree with the court of auditors' comments on the delay in awarding appropriations. i welcome the efforts made since september to introduce a centralised system for recording invoices, which will improve the management of invoices.
in writing. − this grants the director of the european railway agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the 2009 financial year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as the court of auditors has stated that it has sufficient assurances that the 2009 accounts of the european training foundation are reliable and that the operations are legal and regular, and as parliament gave discharge on 5 may 2010 in respect of the implementation of the foundation's director's budget for the financial year 2008. i share the full content of the report and highlight the foundation's initiative to provide the iaa's internal audit report to the budgetary discharge authority, as it is a gesture of transparency that should be followed by other agencies.
in writing. − this grants the director of the european training foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation’s budget for the 2009 financial year.
in writing. − this grants the director of the european agency for safety and health at work discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the 2009 financial year.
in writing. − this grants the director-general of the euratom supply agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the 2009 financial year.
in writing. − this grants the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the administrative director of eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of eurojust’s budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the executive director of the european gnss supervisory authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority’s budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the executive director of the artemis joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the executive director of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this is to defend the immunity of mr de magistris, as in giving the interview in question mr de magistris was acting in performance of his duties as an mep and carrying out political activities by expressing his opinion on a matter of public interest to his constituents.
in writing. − the case concerned does not fall within the scope of mr gollnisch’s political activities as an mep but it relates to his purely regional and local capacity as rhône-alpes regional councillor. thus we have decided not to defend the immunity.
in writing. − the case is identical to the previous one (see a7-0154/2011), but here the request for the waiver of immunity was forwarded by the french authorities.
in writing. - this report concerns the prespa lakes basin, a natural area of international importance due to its geomorphological, ecological, biodiversity and cultural significance. it is a vital habitat for the conservation of numerous rare or endemic species of fauna and flora, as a nesting place for globally threatened birds and as a repository of valuable archaeological and traditional heritage. in this regard, an agreement is concluded between greece, albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which share this natural area, to establish cooperation in the management of the waters of these lakes in order to prevent, control and reduce their pollution; to protect and conserve the biodiversity of the area and to protect the soil from erosion; to promote the prudent use of natural resources and sustainable development; to prevent the introduction of non-native animal and plant species and to regulate human activities with a negative impact on the area. i am convinced that there is a need to strengthen cooperation between the parties concerned, always on the basis of respect for the principle of equality, territorial integrity and mutual benefit, in order to protect this unique site, and i therefore support this agreement.
in writing. − the prespa park area is a natural area of international importance owing to its geomorphological, ecological, biodiversity and cultural significance. it is a vital habitat for the conservation of numerous rare and/or endemic fauna and flora species, as a nesting place of globally threatened birds, and as a depositary of significant archaeological and traditional heritage. for these reasons, the three countries concerned signed the agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area on 2 february 2010, with the participation of the eu. the purpose of the agreement is to establish cooperation so as to ensure the integrated protection of the ecosystem and the sustainable development of the prespa park area, including the drawing up of integrated river basin management plans, in accordance with international and eu standards. under article 218(6)(a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the council must secure the consent of the european parliament in order to adopt the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs fraga's recommendation on the draft council decision approving the agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. my position has been affirmative because the content of the initiative will be a fundamental contribution to the current global fight against illegal fishing. its content will be effective if it is applied in a global, uniform and transparent manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, because i believe that this type of fishing poses a global threat to living aquatic resources. the market is insatiable and it depletes natural resources. industrial and predatory fishing techniques must be curbed. the depletion of fisheries resources is an environmental but also a social problem. in this connection, i welcome this report on the agreement adopted by the 36th fao conference, which is the culmination of a long process of discussion which had already led to the adoption of various codes of conduct. i believe that the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing must be a key element of any successful fisheries policy. i therefore support this report on this agreement, which aims to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal fishing through the application of effective measures by the port state and thus to enable the long-term conservation and rational and sustainable exploitation of marine ecosystems.
in writing. − illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing remains one of the most serious global threats to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources. the fight against iuu fishing is an essential component of the common fisheries policy, and the eu should be able to foster international cooperation on this matter by participating actively and constructively in the adoption of an international instrument on port state measures. the eu is a member of the united nations food and agriculture organization and of 13 regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos). port state mechanisms adopted within rfmos have been implemented through eu law, which also provides for comprehensive rules on access to port services, landings and transhipments of fisheries products by third-country vessels in eu ports, and cooperation and assistance mechanisms between the eu and third countries.
in writing. − in the current context of the european internal market, it is increasingly necessary to defend the rights of consumers, in particular those with limited economic resources. european law allows crossborder complaints and mutual recognition of decisions of national courts, but at present the procedure for crossborder debt collection is arduous and prohibitively expensive. the report with recommendations on the proposed interim measures for the freezing and disclosure of the assets of debtors in crossborder cases aims to give european citizens and businesses the right to have these decisions effectively enforced. without such measures, a signal of impunity is sent to debtors in default and it facilitates the avoidance of liability by fraudsters who may simply transfer their assets to another jurisdiction to deny the effective enforcement of a judicial decision, forcing citizens to have to go to the courts of another member state, without guarantees that this costly process will end favorably. i have not been able to oppose this report, which sets out measures to protect these rights.
in writing. − millions of businesses make use of the right to trade in the eu’s internal market. millions of citizens make use of the right to live, work and travel across the eu. it is essential that in the internal market citizens have effective remedies in the event they have a claim against another citizen or business. the eu has legislation in place to enable cross-border claims and the mutual recognition of judgments of national courts, including the brussels i regulation, the european enforcement order, the small claims procedure and the order for payment procedure. but getting the judgment is only one part of the process; citizens and businesses must have the right to have their judgments effectively enforced. one necessary component of effective enforcement is that courts must be able, as an interim measure, to act swiftly to order the disclosure of the debtor’s assets and freeze them.
in writing. − this grants the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009, and sets out its observations in the resolution that forms an integral part of the decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009, section iii – commission and executive agencies, and in its resolution on conclusions concerning the special reports issued by the court of auditors.
in writing. − this welcomes the fact that the court of auditors has managed to produce, every year, more and better special reports; regrets the fact that, unfortunately, they do not always get the political attention they deserve because of the rules applicable in parliament; points out that those special reports are of great importance when reflecting on and changing and/or adapting programmes and projects, because they can result in a more efficient use of human and budgetary resources; and appreciates the positive attitude of the commission to those processes and its willingness to take prompt action to remedy most of the shortcomings noted by the court of auditors in those reports.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009 for the european parliament. i would like to emphasize that in the section on the main changes in the management of the budget i voted in favour of paragraph 5 because i believe that the general expenditure diet paid into our account must be managed transparently in all cases and must be used for the intended purposes. i therefore support the secretary-general taking the appropriate measures to this end.
in writing. − among other things, the adopted text establishes that the ep takes note of the budgetary constraints many member states face as a result of the financial and economic crisis and the need to critically review potential savings at all levels including at union level; and, in light of this situation, stresses that real savings could be achieved if parliament only had one workplace in the same location.
in writing. − in favour of the following: 1. postpones its decision on granting the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council budget for the financial year 2009; 2. sets out its observations in the resolution below; 3. instructs its president to forward this decision and the resolution that forms an integral part of it to the council, the commission, the court of justice of the european union, the court of auditors, the european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor, and to arrange for their publication in the official journal of the european union (l series).
in writing. − this grants the secretary-general of the court of auditors discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of auditors budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee discharge in respect of the implementation of the european economic and social committee budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the secretary-general of the committee of the regions discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee of the regions budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this grants the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − this postpones parliament’s decision on granting the executive director of the european medicines agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the 2009 financial year.
in writing. − this grants the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − i have voted against granting the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking’s budget for the 2009 financial year.
in writing. − the greens welcomed from the start the idea of supporting pakistan's efforts to overcome the hunger and misery following the floods. however, our main criticism was that it was a measure focusing on a country affected by terrorism without naming this political agenda, and without embedding the measures in a set of measures concerning the political context. furthermore, the greens feared that the measures might pave the way for the inclusion of pakistan in the gsp+ scheme without the country having signed and implemented the corresponding labour and environmental conventions (let alone the geneva conventions). finally, the greens wished to exclude ethanol from the list of duty-free products, as it would be made out of sugar cane, which would replace food crops, constitutes a ghg-intensive crop and does not create a significant number of jobs. unfortunately, none of the green amendments was adopted in inta. the text has finally been referred back to the committee.
in writing. − as we feared, the tight vote against us in the committee on international trade on the crucial article 5 (review of member states’ existing bilateral investment treaties (bits)) and article 6 (the possibility of withdrawing authorisation for a bit) of carl schlyter’s report on ‘transitional arrangements for bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries’ has been confirmed by the vote in plenary. we had made it easier for members to vote with us by tabling amendments on articles 5 and 6, going just halfway towards what we had wanted (and had lost at the committee stage). we thus left it to the s&d group to re-table the original texts, in order to be perceived as representing the middle ground. unfortunately, that strategy did not work out. we had a roll-call vote on this and we will analyse whether we nonetheless captured some support in the alde group. we also lost our amendments concerning better transparency rules. we won only one amendment, of minor importance, on the recitals, which was clearly ‘granted’ to us by the epp and alde groups in order to appease us so that the greens/efa position in the final vote would be positive. however, we chose to reject the report (which was approved by 345 to 246 votes).
in writing. − in line with our voting on macro-financial assistance (mfa) in the last parliamentary term, the suggestion was made that we abstain in this case because we do not think that mfa is very helpful so long as it is tied to whatever programme the international monetary fund (imf) is operating in the countries concerned. indeed, there is no eu-specific financing strategy apart from the standard imf macro-economic reform agenda. on the other hand, we do recognise that georgia has financing needs and that there is an eu responsibility here. the greens/efa group has, in the end, voted in favour.
it is true, mr president, that yesterday, 9 may, we commemorated that founding moment of the european union which taught us that europe would be made in small steps and not once and for all, or what is the same thing, that europe is not made definitively or irreversibly, and that each of its achievements must be preserved by everyday work. schengen is an area of free movement of persons, but it is also a symbol of the best that europe has done in the last 20 years, and therefore of the best europe. and it is a message in the wrong direction that the 25,000 immigrants who have arrived on this shore of the mediterranean are presented as an unbearable burden on the european union. germany proved they're not. the canary islands and spain have shown that the 30 000 arrivals a year from the african coast are not an unbearable burden for the european union. the answer cannot therefore be to question schengen in the context of this migratory flow, but on the contrary to show that what remains to be done is not to correct the weaknesses of schengen by the excesses of schengen, but to strengthen schengen, completing that solidarity clause, which is included in the area of freedom, security and justice, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, and completing the asylum package which is still pending, definitively establishing that second generation schengen information system and the verification mechanism, which is the one that stipulates the conditions of access to the area of free movement, as this parliament has voted in favour of romania and bulgaria, which have the right to join the area of free movement. but above all, and also by giving this european parliament the power to decide with the council on this matter. i would therefore remind you that the proposal to invoke the legal basis of article 70, which excludes parliament, is not acceptable and we call for article 77. a final point, mr president, concerns populism, because we do not fight populism by imitating its lukewarm solutions, but by confronting it with solutions for the future and not for the past.
madam president, mrs malmström, the problem with the commission's communication is that it is not credible at the present time, not for the long-term problems of the subject here raised, not even for the emergency solutions that the european union should have put in place at this time. unfortunately, the commission has shown that it has a great weakness, because it cannot please everyone. we cannot be satisfied with mr sarkozy and mr berlusconi on the one hand and have a common asylum and immigration policy in the long term on the other. it is impossible to introduce into a communication such as this ambiguities which lead nowhere and which show that this is a policy which fails to face the situation we are living in with courage. and it does you a disservice when mr barroso says that you have done your best to find a balance, because it is not a question of finding a balance. this is about responding to an emergency situation such as the one that is being proposed, about having funding and actually getting the member states to agree on a common asylum policy and on that asylum office and on so many of the challenges that we have here, and there is nothing of the sort here. how can you talk about regional cooperation programmes with third countries when the democrats in tunisia and libya are seeing us close the borders to them in our countries? is it possible to talk about it? you can't speak ambiguously. we are dealing with matters that are serious enough for you, mrs malmström, to take them seriously too.
mr president, i would like to thank mr casini for the reports on this transparency register. we are living through a crisis of extraordinary proportions, one which has been with us for a long time and which threatens to remain with us for a long time to come. and in crises like this, the living conditions of citizens and their expectations for the future are damaged. when economic crises do not allow us to legitimise policy by the positive results it offers to the citizens, we must contribute to that legitimation by scrupulously respecting the political values we preach: austerity, honesty, closeness to the citizens and also transparency. this registry is a step forward in the direction of transparency, but only a step. i would like to add my voice to those who have stressed the need for compulsory registration, for the council to be incorporated and for stricter sanctions to be imposed when irregular behaviour is detected.
mr president, i want to tell you that the 21st century is the century of the net, the century of wikileaks, the century of institutional openness, which means transparency and citizen participation, to which we must give co-responsibility in order to shape our decisions. we have to decide together. that is why our work must be proactive. we cannot just wait for lobbies, interest groups to put pressure on us; we have to make the effort to get closer to the citizens, to listen to them. that is why i believe in the effectiveness of transparency registration and the digital footprint, which, far from limiting and frightening, is an opportunity to improve our reporting and measure our results. i believe that this is the only way to move towards a modern parliamentarism. i was responsible for one report and in the explanatory statement i described all the agents with whom i worked, because this is a way of working, it is an attitude which we must clearly separate from all the irresponsible actions we have seen in the past.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating all those who have made it possible to reach an agreement. it is an agreement which we should all welcome because it affects the daily lives of all citizens, but i would like to make a few comments in my constructive spirit. firstly, i would like to draw attention to the importance of providing accurate, relevant but above all comprehensible and uniform information for consumers on the components of textile products: exhaustive information will be of no use if citizens are not able to decipher it. we have taken a positive step, which is necessary but not sufficient; we should go further and protect the citizens who may be the most vulnerable. ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to establish a european system of size labelling based on body dimensions, because the first thing we encounter when we buy a garment is the size. so we should be much more ambitious and look for size harmonization.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. strength testing is a key supervisory tool for assessing the specific solvency of individual banks and the resilience of the banking system as a whole. the design and implementation of the system is to calculate how banks would cope under certain adverse conditions and to detect contagion risks in order to prevent a domino effect that could lead to collapse. the european union has the experience of two previous stress tests conducted by the committee of european banking supervisors (cebs). the first dates back to may 2009, when ecofin mandated cebs to coordinate, in cooperation with the european commission and the european central bank, stress tests of the financial system. the aim was to have a level of aggregated information on the resilience of the european financial system as a whole, and they focused on the 22 largest banking groups. the results were not disclosed to the public - at that time it was said that due to the high sensitivity of the market - only a methodology was disclosed to consider three scenarios - the best, the average and the worst - and these were tests that did not aim at market transparency. during its development, state aid guidelines were adopted, proposed by the commission in july 2009, which provided that banks in need of financial assistance to cope with the crisis should also undergo stress tests. on 1 october 2009, the aggregated results were transmitted to ecofin, which on 2 december 2009 requested information from cebs on the strength of the banking system, for which further stress tests would be carried out. these second stress tests, conducted by the committee of european banking supervisors, produced results that were disclosed in line with the european council guidelines of june 2010. they affected 91 banks in the european union, but were criticised for the lack of a european approach; also because each country decided which banks should be subject to them; because the scenarios in each country were different; because the information provided, on many occasions, was not correct - we all remember the irish case and the lack of information on some aspects of sovereign debt exposure by banks in some countries. and all this, while improving the perception of some member states, did not succeed in restoring confidence within the european union. in these circumstances, the time has come to propose a new round of stress tests, but in a totally different environment, with new european supervisory authorities. for the first time, there is a new european supervisory framework which draws on the experience of the two previous tests, which will allow for the boost of transparency, the boost of reliability and, of course, also the boost of efficiency, which is a fundamental aspect of these third tests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and secondly, what is going to be done to cover and capture the relevant risk potential in all member states. it is necessary to have a proper diagnosis; it is also necessary that the method is developed in accordance with the different business models and banking structures and therefore it is necessary that stress tests can give the information needed to act accordingly. this is a very important moment as a result of the new financial supervisory authorities becoming operational. the european banking authority published a summary document on methodology on 18 march and we would like to know, when the european council in march decided that the information should be published, what measures were taken ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the important thing is to make a good diagnosis, but also that, after the diagnosis, we can apply a good treatment. this is why we need to increase the transparency and reliability of stress testing - and this is a step in the right direction - but also the effectiveness of the response. we need solvent financial institutions, a stable financial system and, above all, restoring credit flows to the real economy. banks that pass the stress tests are not exempted from making every effort to face adverse scenarios and to prepare for an increasingly demanding regulatory environment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the possibility of a new directive on the protection of consumers' interests. the european banking authority may issue recommendations to correct identified risks, to identify institutions that present systemic risks to be subject to enhanced supervision, and to enable rescue, recovery and resolution procedures to be followed. and for those procedures, commissioner, you will have our support, for proposing an ambitious european framework and even going further, because monetary union requires more financial integration, but it also requires more fiscal and political integration.
the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy. the international order today is multipolar in all its aspects and, because of globalisation, politically complex. because of globalisation, which implies, among other things, the dispersion of the centres of power and the collective management of common problems and interests. new international organisations and forums are emerging, such as the diplomacy of the summits of the g-20, g-8, g-7 groups, etc., and reform of traditional international organisations is being proposed. in this context of change, and from the perspective of the european union's international legal personality, there is an urgent need to redefine the role of the european union in this context and to occupy the space that corresponds to it in the multilateral order in order to play the role of a relevant global actor that is attributed to it by the treaty and that is demanded of it by this institution, and european society would dare to say that. it has already begun to do so with the adoption on 3 may of the un general assembly resolution which will allow the european union to participate in the work of the general assembly. it is a historic fact and a diplomatic success which we must acknowledge without any reservations and for which i congratulate you, mrs ashton. but the complexity of the negotiations for the adoption of resolution 1973 makes it clear that the difficult work awaiting it is to update and rationalise the representation of the european union, fragmented and dispersed and with an ad hoc status in each of the 249 multilateral treaties to which the european union is a party. it's not just up to you, obviously. it also depends on the third states which are members of the various multilateral organisations; it also depends on the most effective way of representing the european union, and i refer in this article to an organisation between you - the european external action service - the presidency of the commission, the presidency of the european council and the now residual participation of the rotating presidencies of the union, and it also depends on the member states ceding the pre-eminence of representation to the european union, especially in the case of international organisations dedicated to policies whose competence lies exclusively with the european union. we can all remember, mrs ashton, the copenhagen climate change summit as an example of the useless cacophony to which the overrepresentation of the european union and its member states leads. we can also recall the good functioning of the union's representation in the wto or the fao. and we can also recall the confusion caused by the multiple representation of the various presidencies of the european union in the diplomacy of the summits, or the dysfunctions that result from the failure to implement the provision of article 34 of the treaty on european union on the coordination of the european members of the united nations security council in presenting the common positions of the european union. mr schulz mentioned these flagrant dysfunctions in his speech. i am addressing the member states more than you in this connection, in calling for the european union to play a more structured role in the global multilateral order and to devise a genuine european union foreign policy, forgetting the tendencies and temptations to renationalization that are emerging in several of our member states. but if the call to build this role of the union is primarily to the member states, it is also to your commitment, to the commitment that you put your capacity for political initiative and your services to work to raise the level of external representation of the european union and to rationalize this representation of the union. we are at a historic moment for the world and you have the opportunity to lead the european union's international role, for example with initiatives such as the one you have announced to open an eu representation in benghazi. it has the support of this parliament, and not just the support, but the mandate of this parliament to bring about as soon as possible a rational, structured and coherent representation of the european union on the international scene.
madam president, madam high representative and vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the central element of this all-too-broad debate should be the situation in north africa and the middle east. and we must approach this debate without exalting the light - mrs ashton has rightly highlighted positive elements; i would emphasize the good or the best information between parliament and the european external action service - but also without hiding shadows, and a voice as ponderous as that of our former colleague and president of the italian republic, giorgio napolitano, has recently reminded us of this. in the shadows, despite mrs ashton's efforts, there is the different standard for the cases of libya and syria in the united nations security council and also in the council of ministers of the european union; and in the shadows, mrs ashton, the situation in the ashraf camp: you are aware of the positive, constructive and moderating role that my group has been playing in the development of foreign policy, and believe me, i am not unaware of the importance and sensitivity of the iranian dossier. but despite the warnings you have given, in relation to the humanitarian aspect, to your services, your collaborators, your cabinet, your director-general, and despite the fact that i myself handed you a draft declaration, you have not raised your voice until there have been thirty-two dead and more than three hundred injured. draw your own conclusions. you said this morning that we must act and be consistent, particularly in the area of defending human rights, particularly taking risks, mrs ashton, when lives are at stake. i ask you: in relation to the cuban dissident juan wilfredo soto garcía, who was arrested, beaten and finally killed, are you prepared to call for an investigation to clarify these tragic events? if this investigation reveals a causal relationship between the beating and the death, are you prepared to condemn them?
mr president, first of all, mrs ashton, i would like to congratulate you on your work. let me say that he looks like a hardworking little ant, getting results little by little in the face of the cicadas that sing and loaf in the member states. ladies and gentlemen, you will free me to go further, because my colleagues in my group and in other groups have already expressed the views i share. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the international community's efforts to achieve a peaceful settlement of the conflict. firstly, european public opinion, which, unlike in other areas, is 65 to 70% in favour of a common foreign and security policy. secondly, this european parliament itself, which, with the exception of a small eurosceptic minority, supports european, federal action, especially in foreign and security policy. thirdly, the most europeanist, most federalist member states - there are many of them - should form an alliance with them. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, two preliminary remarks: i prefer separate debates to a joint debate; we are dealing with different subjects, which deserve independent and in-depth debates. i also take up the words of mr salafranca on the death of the cuban dissident, mr soto. let me make three further comments: unfortunately, when we all expected to focus on the external role of the european union in recent years, the serious economic and financial crisis has absorbed our efforts. but the many external challenges, especially in our mediterranean neighbourhood, do not allow us to wait. the european union must be politically and economically present in the processes of change in the arab world. i also welcome, mrs ashton, the fact that last week in new york the european union's voice at the united nations general assembly was finally strengthened with broad support. i congratulate her on this, considering that last year's failure raised a disturbing question about the future role of the union in the world and in international organisations. but nevertheless, the divergent european votes on un security council resolution 1973 make clear the enormous difficulties - i repeat, enormous difficulties - in achieving an effective common security and defence policy. in short, mrs ashton, you and mr van rompuy - who has a lot of responsibility also at the external level - have the huge task of convincing the member states of the need for united and coherent external action. both of them have a role to play in pushing forward, dragging along, and leading at a historic moment which we wanted to tackle with the new instruments of the lisbon treaty.
mr president, on 29 july 2009, iraqi troops violently stormed the ashraf iranian refugee camp and shot and beat 11 residents to death. on 8 april, the attack was repeated with thirty-five fatalities, also from gunshot wounds or being run over by armored vehicles. you, mrs ashton, have been warned for months by members of this parliament that this latest massacre was going to happen and we have therefore repeatedly asked for your intervention. for months, you ignored our warnings and only reacted after the catastrophe. better late than never, the next aggression may be a bloodbath of horrific proportions if, from now on, you do not put this humanitarian crisis at the top of your agenda. there is a solution - mr stevenson has explained it - and we expect you to take immediate and firm action to make it possible, and we welcome your commitment this morning. three thousand four hundred defenseless men and women, surrounded by tanks, look to us, confident that we are behaving in accordance with our values. parliament has done, is doing and will do everything in its power. we ask that you take the same interest in saving these lives. if his performance is what we expect, he'll have us by his side. if you don't, your conscience and this house will hold you accountable.
i call mr albertini, the rapporteur, to speak for the remaining two minutes.
you have, in effect, four minutes. he tells me he used two, so he's got two left, if that's the case. you have four minutes to make your statement.
mr albertini, you have four minutes for your two speeches. he used two. you will speak and we will be flexible, but i certainly do not want to get to a point where you are not heard. what i want is for you to hear him, because if we take five more minutes, no one's going to listen to him.
thank you very much, mr albertini. we all thank you and we're sorry we didn't hear from you.
mr. albertini, i ask you to accept my apology. i've been informed exactly how the situation was. you had four minutes plus two. you spoke for three minutes in the first part. you have therefore three minutes and we will manage with the necessary flexibility.
the rapporteur. - mr president, on the subject of the ashraf camp, we cannot but endorse the condemnation of the human rights violations that have occurred there, but we cannot at any time confuse this condemnation of the human rights violations with political support for the movement in the ashraf camp. there is a democratic opposition in iran, represented by the green movement, by different political groups grouped in the green movement, and in no case should condemnation of human rights violations be confused with political support for this group. and i also ask the vice-president of the commission and high representative, when she starts or opens that inquiry into the situation in the ashraf camp, to also investigate the human rights violations committed by the mujahideen against the population, and which are witnessed and attested by organizations such as human rights watch. in connection with my report, mrs ashton, i would like you to take particular note of paragraph 6, which calls for the preparation of a white paper with a strategic focus on the role of the european union in international organisations, with a view to 2020. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their collaboration in the preparation and drafting of this report, and i would also like to regret that political minds of infinitesimal dimensions in this parliament have prevented the mention in my report of an academic organization which has contributed a study to provide a basis for the preparation of this report. it is the alternatives foundation which has provided a good basis for me to work with the alternative rapporteurs and the secretariat on this report, which i hope will be useful in determining or giving political impetus to the redefinition of the role of the european union in international organisations.
i would like to tell mr stevenson that for this debate it was decided, before i took over the presidency, not to use the 'blue card' procedure precisely in order to give the floor to all the members who have asked to speak.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i should like to thank honourable members for what has been a full-ranging debate. mr albertini, i happy to stand anywhere as long as it is actually in the room – i suspect there may be a few people who would prefer it if i was not – and i am very happy to speak from the podium; it is the obvious place between the two. i do appreciate very much the work that you, mr albertini, and the other rapporteurs have done in producing what i think are really useful and helpful reports in terms of addressing the breadth of european action. but i want to say too that there is greater coherence than perhaps anyone listening to this debate might imagine. we do have strong united foreign policy positions on a whole range of issues, from the breadth of our concerns on human rights to the specific work that we are doing on the middle east, in our neighbourhood, on serbia/kosovo, on bosnia, or in our approach in africa where we now look at the situation hopefully beginning to be resolved in cote d’ivoire but worrying today in uganda. all of these positions are worked out with the 27 foreign affairs council ministers and i have to pay tribute to them. i think that we are moving inexorably to a greater sense of coherence. there is a lot more to do – i do not dispute that – and there is a lot more that you would wish us to do; but do not let us underestimate what we have already managed to achieve and the journey that we are on to do that. so i want to pay tribute to them and the fact that they often speak on behalf of all of us too; we cannot be everywhere in the world all at once. today we have foreign ministers in different parts of the world carrying messages on behalf of myself, on behalf of the european union. that is an important aspect of what we do as well. can i say too that we are almost always the first to produce statements, the first to come out and say what we think should happen. it was my office that produced the non-paper on sanctions on syria; we are in the driving seat. not always reported, may i say, not always put forward in the press across the european union, but we are the first to actually put out our statements and we produce hundreds of them to make the point consistently of the importance of what we do; and consistency is a critical factor in what is being discussed today. in the course of our debate we focused on certain parts of the world, but in the course of further speeches honourable members have raised a whole range of different issues which we still must continue to deal with. mr salafranca talked about what has been happening in cuba over the weekend with mr soto and we are looking carefully at that, we have asked for more information on that case because clearly that is an area of enormous importance. some honourable members have asked about gaza, about making sure that the aid is getting through, that we continue to support the people of gaza – which we do, but we are engaged in a dialogue to increase and improve that. then there are the events in nagorno-karabakh between azerbaijan and armenia, where we have been in discussion with both, and where we are looking to support what france is doing in terms of trying to drive forward the process there. in albania we have been in discussions with the prime minister and with the opposition to try to get the dialogue moving. and of course across africa, i mentioned two countries, but we could talk about many more, not least as regards what is happening again today in sudan and the importance of ensuring that south sudan is created with the best possible chances of success and then there is ukraine, an important neighbourhood country which was mentioned i think by mr saryusz-wolski and others too. we have a breadth of things to do and we must continue to do all of them. so, honourable members, i would just say to you it is important to recognise that. let me just, in the final minutes i have got, kill off a few of the myths which have grown up. i am not looking for a security council seat. i looked for proper status for the eu on the un general assembly, and we got that with nobody opposed to it, and honourable members will know that took a lot of work, and i pay tribute to all of those involved, but we now have that stronger voice. i think it is important too that we look at what we are really doing on csdp; let us not mess around with descriptions that are not true. in libya alone we managed to support through our aid 55 000 people being able to get home. i did not oppose a no-fly zone in the european council and prime minister cameron will back that up; that is not at all what i said. what i said was that for it to be effective and to be done quickly it was important that those who could act quickly should do so. on our delegations, i support trying to strengthen what we have in our delegations opening in benghazi, and what we do in iraq. but let us not play this off against what happens in other countries like the bahamas. the staff in the bahamas are development staff from the commission working on rural programmes, on agriculture, for some of the poorest people, and we should not in my view see this as being an ‘either/or’ situation. honourable members, we have to do as much as we can to support countries across the world. so i end as i began by saying that we do not lack ambition, we need the resources to do the job properly, we need to be able to be consistent, we need to develop and strengthen what we do, and that is what we will do, but we will do it by taking the 27 members of the european union on that journey with us, leading sometimes, pushing sometimes, working alongside sometimes, and your support will be invaluable to that. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote on the three reports will take place at 12.30 today. (the sitting was suspended for a moment) written declarations (rule 149)
in writing. - i support this report because this proposal is limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts without any substantial amendment of them.
in writing. − with this ‘whereas, according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance, the ep adopts its position at first reading, taking over the commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.’
in writing. − in its position at first reading, adopted on 18 may 2010, the european parliament approved, by a very large majority, 63 amendments. the vast majority were technical amendments aimed at aligning the text with the treaty on the functioning of the european union and with the new legislative framework for the marketing of goods. parliament also adopted a number of substantive amendments, including rules on origin marking, the indication of animal-derived materials, the use of language-independent symbols and a review clause.
in writing. − although the final vote was postponed, we voted on several amendments. these ‘exceptional trade measures’ with the partners in the western balkans, under the eu stabilisation and association programme, are indeed preferential tariff measures, which guarantee easier access to the eu market for the partner countries’ exports. they need to be notified to the world trade organisation. the programme ran out at the end of 2010, and what we have now is simply the extension to it. it has been blocked because of the delayed comitology decision. early in january 2011 the international trade committee made a proposal to the council to ensure that the procedure was speeded up, but received no answer. thus, parliament had to await the adoption of the szájer report on comitology in march in order to proceed further. an informal trilogue resolved the issue to permit adoption at first reading. the delay has created hardship in some receiving countries, and particularly in kosovo, and parliament has been wrongly blamed for this.
in writing. we are rightly told that the radio spectrum is a scarce commodity. i would like to emphasize that this is also a common good, i.e. a good which no one can claim as his exclusive property or "acquired rights". if it is both a common good and a rare good, it is necessary to understand its use today, that is to say to conduct a thorough examination of all the actors of the spectrum, including civil security services and military services. this is far from the best use of the term today. the use of technologies that allow different services to coexist should be encouraged. let us also not forget that not all uses are necessarily commercial in nature and therefore not necessarily generating profits - i am thinking for example of the use of spectrum for cultural purposes or for public service purposes.
in writing. it is useful to hear the views of stakeholders when the european legislator prepares and adopts a piece of legislation. but to make these influences objective, it is essential that all lobbyists be registered in a register common to the various institutions. the text that has just been adopted is an interesting first step in identifying the different types of lobbyists and the amounts they use to try to influence decisions. he'll have to evolve. the council should also participate in the common register, which should become mandatory and can be used as a dynamic instrument to ensure the transparency of the decision-making process. this is good for european democracy.
in writing. − we had to abstain at the end. our amr, co-signed by s&d and aimed at giving the resolution a stronger regulatory flavour, was rejected. amendments by the rapporteur to weaken the resolution were however adopted, as was the report containing very mixed messages. the key player on this in the epp (karas) was on our line, and as rapporteur for crd iv (the capital requirements directive) he will be given the task of dealing with corporate governance rules for financial institutions (the follow-up to this ini). his group, in particular vice-president wortman-kool, let him down (again). let us hope the actual legislation (proposal expected in july) will be treated with more care and determination.
in writing. − we voted in favour. the ep is very much divided on the free trade agreement with india. the first compromise (by epp, ecr and alde) was adopted with 390 in favour, 276 against, and 10 abstentions. the hope of sending a strong message to the negotiators to conclude the fta with india failed. the epp, ecr and alde resolution recommending rushing into a complete opening of the indian market at all levels, without binding language on human and labour rights, csr, environmental dumping etc. did not get the overwhelming majority it needed if it wanted to be a recommendation for the negotiators. the ‘counter-resolution’ by the greens/s&d and gue, which did not come to a vote, had solid support and will certainly be read by the negotiators. the very worst in the epp, ecr and alde compromise was avoided.
in writing. − our group did not sign or support this resolution, and we presented our own where we stated, among other things, the following: ‘1. expresses its utmost sympathy for the courage and determination with which the japanese people are confronting the catastrophes of 11 march and their terrible aftermath and calls on the commission and member states to help japan with all means to rebuild its social and economic life; 2. believes that the continuation and deepening of current trade relations between the eu and japan can play an important role in this regard and calls on the commission to concentrate all efforts on assuring this; 3. regards the multilateral trading system, embodied in the wto, as by far the most effective framework for achieving fair and equitable trade rules on a global basis.’
in writing. − this is a good report with good proposals, which include recognising the generally positive trend in terms of carbon storage in forests in europe, but also the fact that carbon storage still remains far below natural capacity, and that the forest sector could reverse to a source, due to pressures; calling for commission proposals to complement the timber regulation, in order to ensure that all timber or timber products placed on the european market are sourced from sustainably managed forests; urging the commission to study options for payment for ecosystem services; and calling for a legislative proposal on forest fire prevention, including consideration of a 30-year ban on building on land where there has been a forest fire.
in writing. - the annual report on the cfsp, in this case for 2009. my vote in favour is based on the accuracy of this report, which not only takes account of the innovations of the treaty of lisbon in foreign and security policy matters, but also calls for better coordination between the newly established european external action service, the member states and the commission. the eu must consolidate itself as a strong and credible actor on the international scene and to do this we need to move towards an unambiguous message in promoting our values, such as democracy or human rights, in our external relations, but also in pursuing our interests, such as those related to energy security. values and interests should not be mutually exclusive terms but compatible in our external action. the report, from a socialist point of view, sets out our main demands in its thematic and geographical recommendations. i think he is right in his conception of transatlantic relations, and in particular of eu-nato, or in stressing the need for civil and military cooperation in crisis management.
in writing. − three of our six amendments were adopted: the one calling for separate budget lines on common security and defence policy missions, the one calling on the council and the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to overcome the imbalance between civilian and military planning capabilities, and the one on the urgency of addressing water management issues in central asia. as for syria, the s&d group amendment was adopted, causing our amendment calling for the resignation of assad to fall. in the end, the report was adopted with an overwhelming majority. our group abstained.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty lays the foundations for the eu to consolidate itself as a credible and influential actor on the international scene. i therefore support a report which is necessary to assess the progress made in the common security and defence policy since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and to identify areas for improvement. as a member of the subcommittee on security and defence, i have followed this report closely. i have personally stressed the need for cooperation between member states in defence r & d & i. we are living in the midst of an economic crisis, so we must join forces to reduce expenditure and increase the interoperability of our states' military capabilities. this will not only result in a reduction in defence spending but also in a greater autonomy for the eu on the international scene. i think that this view has been well captured in this report, which is a step in the right direction towards a more effective common security and defence policy, coordinated and consistent with the other policies of the eu and its member states.
in writing. − i decided to abstain at the final vote because we lost amendment 1 on reference to nato, amendment 3 against a nuclear dimension in the common security and defence policy, amendment 4 against flexible use of battlegroups, amendment 5 against using battlegroups for mixed civilian-military tasks, amendment 6 deleting a provision on defence research, amendment 7 deleting a provision on defence research, amendment 8 deleting reference to the us department of homeland security, amendment 9 deleting reference to csdp cooperation with frontex in the mediterranean, and despite the fact that we won amendment 2 on european external action service/commission permanent working structures and amendment 1 saying no to nato developing civilian capabilities.
in writing. − among other things, this text establishes that parliament notes that the eu’s mechanisms for building consensus and taking concerted action make it a model for a rules-based international order. it therefore stresses the need for the eu to cooperate with leading regional powers and actively participate in the building and improvement of an international environment that enables the eu to promote, as required by the treaty, its values and interests. in particular in those fields where it has exclusive or shared competences, it considers essential, with regard to the eu’s aspiration and need to be an effective global actor and to safeguard its position, a strengthening of the internal coordination necessary to speak with one voice, the ability to shape multilateral cooperation and lead collective action in addressing international challenges, namely those arising from the responsibility to protect, and the need to enhance human security as a means of achieving global security.
chairman of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we regret that it has not been possible to reach an agreement on the novel foods regulation and that it is therefore not possible to ensure that consumers are adequately informed about the food we eat and that europe has clear and strict rules on food from cloned animals. these statements are not intended to provoke controversy: the european parliament is not responsible. if we have not been able to regulate cloning - one of the main issues in this negotiation - it is because governments have not given adequate availability. yet - and i am addressing the governments and the commission - food safety and the information on products that reaches our tables are basic principles of the european union. we all say it: but then we have to act accordingly, otherwise it becomes a slogan that consumers don't believe in. when these issues are discussed, the european parliament is not prepared to turn the other way, to be content with generic assurances such as those given by the council during the negotiations. on such a sensitive and serious issue as food safety, it is not acceptable to 'spray the cloves' to make ourselves look good in the eyes of consumers. the european parliament called for a credible solution: the labelling of all food derived from cloned animals and their offspring. that would have been a step in the right direction. more generally, i would like to make another observation: governments continue to think that they have all the decisions. it is still not clear that there is an institution the european parliament which codecides. we are directly elected by the citizens and we are determined to assert our rights. i would urge governments to read the lisbon treaty carefully, because i do not think they have done so in all its parts. i would now like to appeal to the european commission and to commissioner dalli, whose behaviour during the negotiations i appreciated, even though the commission has sometimes failed to explain its role as a conciliator of positions. i would ask you, commissioner, to submit a proposal on cloning as soon as possible in order to regulate the sector definitively and effectively. that is what the citizens are asking us to do and that is what the european parliament is asking us to do. i would like to express my appreciation to the hungarian presidency, which inherited this thorny issue only at the last stage of the procedure, for making every possible effort to make up for lost time. i thank all the representatives of the hungarian presidency for this, and i am aware that i cannot attribute any blame to them, which is instead attributable to the impasse that has developed within the council between the different positions of the national governments. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, who has been a splendid woman, full of passion, enthusiasm and competence. you have followed this dossier with a love that truly honours you and i think we all owe you a great deal of thanks, as well as the entire delegation of the european parliament, all the colleagues, the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and all the other colleagues. we all worked together day and night to achieve a goal. we have not succeeded, but the issues are open and i am convinced that if commissioner dalli is consistent with what he has said, we can find a way back to having good regulation on cloning and good regulation on novel foods.
the president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, members of the house. today's debate is a good opportunity to present the presidency's views on the recent consultation on the proposal for a regulation on novel foods. it is also an excellent opportunity for the presidency to hear parliament's views on this important issue. our european institutions have suffered a serious collective failure. we have no choice but to draw lessons from them in a constructive, professional way. and it is in that spirit that i address you today. i'm not here to talk, but to listen. first of all, i want to say that the bureau sincerely regrets that your institution and ours, the council, have not been able to reach an agreement. the council has also adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. there is a unique opportunity to update eu legislation in a field that as regards food concerns us all directly. it was a real opportunity for the european union to show how it could make a tangible contribution to improving the lives of european citizens. the proposed regulation would have been a particularly good instrument to address the controversial issues surrounding food derived from cloned animals by tightening the requirements contained in the 1997 regulation. the 1997 regulation provides that such foodstuffs may be placed on the market only after an authorisation procedure. on the other hand, recent negotiations have resulted in a clear albeit provisional agreement. all parties agreed that the placing on the market of food derived from cloned animals should be prohibited individually. moreover, this prohibition would have entered into force immediately after the entry into force of the regulation. if the negotiations had been successful, we would now be able to welcome the imminent ban on the marketing of food products derived from cloned animals. that ban could have gone into effect as early as the end of this month. unfortunately, that's not what happened. in light of the failed negotiations, we may be inclined to blame each other. but at the same time, it is in the common interest and responsibility of all of us not to give in to this urge, but to work together to find a solution. the negotiations are over, but the needs and expectations of european consumers have not changed, and i am pleased to see a new opportunity to move forward. it is up to us to restart this process as quickly and as effectively as possible. we must do everything possible, especially to ensure that what we have agreed in the negotiations so far is not lost. in the third reading we reached agreement in principle on an immediate ban on food products derived from cloned animals. we must not lose sight of this principle. we must also protect the substantial progress made on artificial nanomaterials and traditional food from third countries and on similar important issues. i think we all care about what we eat, and more importantly, what kind of food our children and grandchildren are growing up with. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner and his staff for the hard work they have put in over the last few months. i also welcome the fact that the commission is working at a very fast pace on a new proposal, as we have been informally informed, in order to incorporate as many elements as possible of the provisional agreement reached in recent negotiations into the new draft legislation. it assures both the commission and parliament of the support of the presidency and hopes that this new proposal will be adopted as soon as possible. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, we know that the commission's powers are limited. in the end, it is the task of the council and the parliament, as two co-legislators, to work together to find a solution that meets the needs and expectations of european citizens. in light of all this, i look forward to hearing your views.
member of the commission. − madam president, as i have already had the opportunity to state to both the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and rural development, i cannot but express my disappointment at the failure of conciliation, notwithstanding our best efforts to find an agreement. this situation is unfortunate, since we had made a lot of progress over recent months on the issues in the novel foods proposals. let me recall some of the elements on which there was clear agreement and which, if adopted, would bring many improvements to the legislation currently in place: a centralised procedure for approval of novel foods which streamlines the authorisation process while maintaining food safety; a definition of ‘nanomaterials’ and the obligation for pre-market approval, and a labelling requirement for all food ingredients containing nanomaterials; a simplified procedure applicable to traditional foods from third countries, to facilitate eu market access for these products; and the need for food business operators to share scientific data, where tests on animals are involved, in order to limit animal testing where possible. these improvements will contribute to europe’s innovation drive by facilitating the marketing of novel foods without any compromise on safety. this dossier requires our concerted attention in order to put these improvements in place without further delay. they will bring huge benefits in terms of both consumer protection and innovation in the food sector. it is therefore my hope that we can capture the momentum of negotiations by making a proposal on this issue very shortly. the failure to conclude this dossier came despite a number of positive steps achieved on the issue of cloning during the last months and hours of negotiations. the commission remains committed to following up the report of october 2010 which, i recall, proposed the following: a temporary suspension for five years of the use of the cloning technique in the eu, of the import and use of clones for food production, and of food from clones, which would be combined with the introduction of traceability systems for imports of semen and embryos from clones. furthermore, the commission recognises the progress made during conciliation. it is also clear to me that, on the issue of cloning in all its facets, we need to find an agreement that can be implemented and one that is justified and proportionate. the commission is ready to come up with a comprehensive proposal after the necessary impact assessment. i welcome the conciliatory tone adopted by mr pittella and by the presidency. we need collectively to reflect further on the next steps, and i am ready to discuss with you, and with the council, possible scenarios to deal with these two important issues and to agree on a process that will guarantee a positive outcome. such a collective reflection should seek to set a course for success on both dossiers so that consumers can reap the benefits.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, first of all i would like to thank mrs liotard, the hungarian presidency and commissioner dalli and his team for the efforts they have made, but unfortunately this important and necessary regulation has not been implemented because of labelling requirements that went beyond what was possible. it is a passionate and media-driven issue, and these ingredients go against rationality and pragmatism. i have to say that we have lost the opportunity to make a step forward; that we have condemned the agri-food industry to live with outdated legislation; and that we have put a brake on the advance of european technology which we theoretically support so much. we cannot demand something which imposes costs and bureaucracy which are too great for the producer sector, nor can we demand what we cannot impose on third parties; we cannot legislate on something which we will not be able to implement because we would be deceiving consumers. i would like to stress that it is a pity that we have not reached agreement, because this regulation was not only about cloning and how many generations and what products have to be labelled, but also about many other points - such as nanotechnology or food from third countries - on which agreement has been reached and which were very important for consumers and the agri-food industry, not only from the point of view of the internal market, but also from the point of view of health and innovation. as cloning is too complex a subject to be dealt with in just a few paragraphs in another proposal, i again urge the commission to draw up a report and present a separate legislative proposal to regulate all aspects of cloning on the basis of food safety and all the scientific data. since commissioner dalli has repeatedly promised this house that he will put this proposal before us, i am confident that the commission will send it to us as soon as possible.
the president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, members of the house. i am grateful to parliament for its interest in the small business package and in particular for the opportunity to discuss the way forward on the various initiatives taken in the context of the review of the package. the small business package is a very important tool to help create a more favourable business environment for smes. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) make a major contribution to the european economy, as the vast majority of businesses belong to this group, employing more than 90 million people across europe. the full implementation of the sme policy, including the sme package, is therefore a priority for the hungarian presidency. the success of our competitiveness strategy depends on the impact of our policy initiatives on smes. one of the keys to future growth is a high level of competitive, innovative smes in europe. consequently, the council warmly welcomes the commission's communication on the review of the small business package published on 23 february 2011. in its communication, the commission proposes a number of new initiatives in several priority areas for further action. these initiatives have been the result of extensive consultations with associations of smes and the relevant authorities, and therefore take due account of the interests of both the enterprises themselves and other stakeholders. the commission's communication was discussed by the ministers for competitiveness at their informal meeting in gödöllő, hungary, on 13 april 2011. at this meeting, the ministers fully supported the presidency's view that the four main issues to be addressed as a matter of priority were: smart regulation, financing, internationalisation and governance. further work is needed to make progress on these issues. the presidency is, however, determined to maintain the momentum of the process at the competitiveness council meeting on 31 may 2011, which will also deal with the mid-term review of the small business package. the presidency would like to see the council adopt conclusions at this meeting, in particular on the 'think small first' principle, which is the basis of the commission's communication. as regards the statute of the european private limited company, it was first proposed by the european commission in a draft council regulation in 2008. the proposal is based on the idea that it should be easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to do business in the single market. this should lead to reduced costs and increased economic growth. within the council, some concerns were raised about certain aspects of the proposal. despite the considerable efforts of the swedish and belgian presidencies, the member states have not yet been able to reach an agreement. i can assure the honourable members that the hungarian presidency is committed to finding ways of moving forward with regard to the particularly problematic issues in this proposal and will continue to do everything in its power to make this a success.
member of the commission. − mr president, many thanks to the honourable members for this important oral question and your debate. i will respond to the question on behalf of my colleague, vice-president antonio tajani. in fact, small and medium-sized enterprises account for 99% of all european enterprises and generate most of the value-added of the real economy and create two-thirds of the jobs in the private sector. the eu is relying on smes and is creating the conditions under which they can develop and grow in order to create jobs in competitive markets. smes need less red tape, easier access to finance green markets and skills that match the needs of the real economy. these are the principles behind our sme policy as presented in the review of the small business act for europe. i will outline five avenues of work in the frame of your five questions in the oral question in my response on behalf of the commission. in the review, the commission invites the member states to systematically assess the impact of the legislation on smes by using the sme test. the european parliament and the commission are working together on a study of the application of the sme test in the member states and at european level. the commission will use this test as a basis for planning additional measures to support implementation and the exchange of best practice. we are also currently completing a study on the problems associated with licensing and official authorisation, company transfer and bankruptcy procedures in the member states. the study will enable the commission, and in particular the member states, to plan appropriate measures for applying the ‘think small first’ principle to administrative services. this will be made possible in particular by expanding online administration and the one-stop shop in line with the recommendations made in the review. secondly, a new system of governance will be introduced. the commission has invited the member states to appoint a sme representative – ‘ms or mr sme’ – to monitor the implementation of the sba at national level. the national representatives will be members of a consultative group for the sba which will help to assess and disseminate information concerning the measures taken to support smes. they will meet for the first time at the sba conference in budapest on 24 and 25 may this year. thirdly, smes are intended to be the main beneficiaries of the european programme to reduce the administrative burden. the commission has submitted to the council and the ep proposals for reducing administrative costs very substantially – by up to over 30% when they are implemented – while the proposals already adopted will reduce administrative costs by 22%. the commission is relying on the parliament to ensure that our proposals are adopted as soon as possible. certain proposals, such as the review of the fourth accounting directive, will benefit smes in particular. when it has been adopted by the council and parliament, the review of the fourth accounting directive will enable member states to exempt very small enterprises from certain accounting obligations. fourthly, the sba has also created a framework to enable smes to take up the challenge of energy efficiency by improving their energy management and seizing the opportunities presented by the environmental market. the action plan to encourage eco-innovation will also be implemented, paying particular attention to smes by promoting networking, low carbon technologies and efficient management of the use of resources. we will also continue developing action specifically devoted to environment and energy experts within the enterprise europe network. finally, as part of the flagship initiative on the agenda for new skills and jobs, the commission will assess future skills needs in micro- and craft-type enterprises. an initial study on identification of future skills requirements in micro- and craft-type enterprises up to 2020 has just been published. it identifies the actions which need to be taken to meet future skills requirements, promote them more effectively and include them more systematically in training programmes for both micro-enterprises and craft-type enterprises.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the commission and the council, we are here today in this parliament debating a joint motion for a resolution on the review of the small business act which the commission presented in february. small and mediumsized enterprises can be defined in many ways in relation to the economy, but they are something like the way around which any economic system is articulated in general - in this case, european economies. if they're strong, the economy will do well, and if they're weak, the economy will do badly. small and mediumsized enterprises are the ones that create jobs, generate growth and therefore generate prosperity for society. i will refer to three aspects which i believe are fundamental to the success of a strong business network. firstly, the incorporation of information and communication technologies, the development of e-government or the development of technologies such as cloud computing, which save money, save costs and save effort and thus benefit the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. secondly, innovation, which is also fundamental in this sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new member states are able to comply with the new rules. thirdly, that small and mediumsized enterprises should be able to participate fully in the internal market, both in terms of cross-border public procurement and in all the other aspects of the internal market which can - and are not doing now - greatly benefit small and mediumsized enterprises in their competitiveness. and finally, behind all this, there is the value of entrepreneurship, a social value that is either strong or this whole network will be a weak network and, in this, governments have a lot to do and the european union too, mainly through one instrument: education.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, smes certainly have the advantage of being flexible and agile and being close to the customer, which allows them to make decisions much more quickly. these are very important qualities in times of crisis, when speed in response is vital. on the other hand, as we know, they make up more than 90% of our business fabric and are a valuable model which we must maintain, because the effects of a large company going bankrupt or relocating are much more devastating, especially in terms of employment. that is why, and especially from the public authorities, we cannot afford to put obstacles in their way. that is why we passed the small business act and why exercises like this are crucial to follow member states' progress in implementing the policy and legislative measures we have agreed. ladies and gentlemen, european smes urgently need to translate the strong political will expressed in the small business act to improve their access to public procurement into concrete and real operational measures. we welcome the measures taken by some member states, such as the division of tenders into lots or the improvement of electronic access to information, from centralised websites and interactive websites, but we believe that this is not enough. we must insist in this house that those responsible for public procurement in the various administrations include in the specifications provisions which allow for positive discrimination against smes and eliminate those contractual clauses which hinder their participation.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i have followed the work of our agencies over the last few years, particularly those in bilbao and dublin, and i think they are doing a very worthwhile job and, in terms of cost-benefit, extremely efficient. at the same time, we have enormous transparency and there is no doubt that they work closely with parliament. i am therefore surprised that there is any attempt to cast doubt on their existence, on their work, and i am shocked that, as usual, some of their colleagues, instead of having a political vision, have an accounting and exclusively accounting vision. it is true that the accounts are very important: it is very important to know what the costs are, but also the benefits; to know what the costs of preventing accidents at work are, but also the costs of not preventing accidents at work; the costs of training, but also the costs of not training or of not anticipating the changes that our workers and our industries need. commissioner, i think that more than problems with the agencies, some of your honourable members have problems with europe. you, like ulysses returning to ithaca, do not listen to the sirens' songs, because they want to lead the ship to the rocks and sink the ship of europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, i believe that we need to discuss all issues like this without any taboos. if we find weaknesses or waste, we have to address them. however, it is also very important that we do not misrepresent reality and we do not overstate the weaknesses we find just so as to make a strong point. i regret that some of the colleagues who spoke have actually left, but i would like to answer them very specifically. for example, i very strongly reject the notion that some of these agencies just do pr and work of a very superficial nature. they actually do very concrete analytical and policy work, including the exchange of experience, and help deliver european policies, in these particular instances, in the area of employment and social issues. i think these agencies are instrumental in delivering the europe 2020 strategy and progress towards the headline targets we have agreed. i very much agree that developing skills and vocational training is one of the key challenges we are facing, as was stressed in the discussion. this is one of the key structural causes of unemployment in the european union, and we need the contribution of these agencies more than ever. it is true, however, that we have to see whether the costs are justified or not, and we need to approach this on a very concrete basis. in principle, the efficiency and performance criteria of an agency are set out in its annual work programme, together with an indication of the ways in which such criteria are to be addressed. an agency’s annual work programme has to be approved by its governing board, and is presented to the relevant european parliament committee. the commission representatives on the governing boards of agencies take the need for quantitative and qualitative performance criteria very seriously and make every effort to ensure that they are applied. on the question of how the agencies perform against the criteria that are set, i have to say that it is the role of the governing board of each agency to assess its performance against those criteria. as a rule, agencies carry out external evaluations of their work programmes at regular intervals, and these take such performance indicators into account. agencies usually report on the results of external evaluations in the director’s annual activity report, which is submitted to the budgetary authority. as part of the budgetary authority, parliament may also request agencies to justify their performance. agencies are also subject to evaluation by the court of auditors in connection with the annual discharge procedure, the results of which are discussed in the committee on budgetary control. commission representatives on the governing boards of agencies make every effort to ensure that the recommendations stemming from external evaluations, and those from the court of auditors and the commission’s internal audit service, are followed up appropriately. i addressed the question of the functional overlap between two agencies – the etf and cedefop – in my introductory speech, but i would like to stress again that the contribution of these agencies can be crucial, especially in the context of increasing employment in line with the 2020 objectives. the etf, particularly in the light of the recent changes in the mediterranean area, can play a very strong role in bringing prosperity to the regions neighbouring the european union. i have one more point to make concerning parliament’s capacity to see the development of strategies. the objectives of the agencies are defined in the financial regulation which, as you know, is published in the official journal. an agency’s strategy is usually set by the director in agreement with the governing board, and these strategies are presented to parliament each year and are reflected in the annual work programme. the four agencies concerned presented their annual work programmes to parliament’s committee on employment and social affairs at the end of january this year. finally, i would like to say that i also believe it would be useful to involve the council presidency in such discussions. i can assure you i will follow this up with them, and i am sure i will find a common language with the presidency on this issue as well.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.25 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the next item is the report by judith a. merkies, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the innovation union: transforming europe for a post-crisis world 2010/2245 (ini)) (a7-0162/2011).
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, commissioner, our rapporteur, mrs merkies, whom i congratulate on her excellent work, has already dealt with the content of the report and has focused on those aspects which are most relevant to our group, such as social innovation understood as innovation by workers and citizens, the incentive provided by innovative and green public procurement, or the need to improve access to finance for small and mediumsized enterprises. this allows me to focus and to focus on one particular aspect of the report: the need to develop indicators. if we understand innovation simply as new products, processes and services which result in an increase in economic activity, it is essential that we have the instruments to measure our capacity for innovation precisely in economic terms, and that we do so on the basis of parameters such as private investment in r & d, employment or the number of innovative firms. it is a question of establishing indicators, all of them, which reflect the capacity of innovation to generate growth, employment and gdp growth, and which allow us to compare our situation, in terms of intensity, with the economies of our competing countries. and i want to conclude with a few words as a member of a delegation which has opposed the launch of enhanced cooperation on the community patent, and to say that we have opposed it because we think that the enhanced cooperation instrument can directly affect the internal market, territorial cohesion and the right of citizens of all member states to maximum legal security.
member of the commission. − madam president, i welcome today’s discussion on a new ilo instrument for domestic workers. it is an important contribution to the second round of discussions on the new international standards which will probably be adopted in a few weeks’ time at the 100th session of the international labour conference. as you know, the european commission is a firm supporter of the ilo’s decent work agenda. the commission closely monitors and facilitates coordination among the member states and has worked for the speedy ratification of a number of important instruments adopted in the last decade. there are many reasons for developing new standards in the area of domestic work. for instance, there are a large number of domestic workers across the world, many of them belonging to vulnerable groups. their precarious status and the fact that they often fall within the informal sector are also very important issues. in the european union, employment in this sector is very likely to expand, given population change and higher female participation in the labour market. that is why it is crucial to raise domestic workers’ professional profile and improve their image. let me now look at the practical issues raised by the question and first explain the commission’s role in the ilo negotiations on a new convention and recommendation on decent work. the institutional context needs to be borne in mind. the new instrument will be an international agreement. the commission will therefore fulfil the role conferred on it by the treaty with due regard for the special features of the ilo, where the european union has observer status only – unlike the member states which are members. that is why the union cannot ratify ilo conventions itself. the commission followed the discussions actively and facilitated coordination among the experts of the member states during the first round of discussions at the ilo in 2010. it has analysed the instruments as they developed during the negotiations in the light of eu legislation. the commission was attentive in particular to any sections of the draft convention that could affect freedom of movement for workers. as the new ilo convention will comprise matters of eu competence, the member states need to comply with the eu acquis. in the next and final round of discussions in june the commission will continue to play an active coordination and facilitation role by working with member state experts. my departments have been in contact with the social partners and a number of ngos that have approached the commission, and have had exchanges with the rapporteur for the opinion of the european economic and social committee on the professionalisation of domestic work. secondly, there is the question of the role of europe 2020 in ensuring that precarious domestic jobs are transformed into decent sustainable jobs. we need to bear in mind the sector’s potential in terms of job creation and reconciling work and family responsibilities, and thus its role in meeting the objectives of the employment strategy. however, we must not forget the need to ensure that domestic jobs – not all of which should be regarded as precarious and undervalued or underpaid – are indeed decent jobs. what is more, the fight against undeclared work, which is widespread in the domestic work sector, is an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy as the first annual growth survey has confirmed. ways of moving from informal or undeclared work to regular employment will be covered by the guiding principles on enabling conditions for job creation which the commission announced in the communication on the europe 2020 flagship initiative, ‘an agenda for new skills and jobs’. we will be putting forward those guiding principles next year. a number of member states have useful experience in working to reduce the informal sector and precarious employment, for example by introducing service voucher systems. thirdly, there is the question of amending the current framework legislation on health and safety at work – directive 89/391/eec – and on combating discrimination – directive 2000/78/ec. it is worth pointing out that the definition of domestic workers in the draft ilo convention is very wide. it not only covers persons working in private households, but also for them, as well as persons employed by employment agencies. domestic servants are excluded from the definition of workers in the framework directive on health and safety at work. however, the eu legislator seems to have intended that the concept of domestic servants be interpreted narrowly, so not all domestic servants under the convention are excluded from the scope of the eu health and safety at work acquis. lastly, eu occupational and safety and health legislation provides minimum requirements and does not, therefore, prevent any member state from introducing more stringent measures at national level. consequently, the member states are free to include domestic servants within the scope of their national legislation. for the time being the commission has no plans to amend the framework directive on occupational safety and health. nevertheless, the commission considers that the current ilo initiative is a good opportunity to reflect on the situation of domestic servants in europe. i would add that directive 2000/78/ec establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation does not exclude domestic workers, so no amendment is needed for the ratification of the ilo convention. the commission issued a report on the application of the directive in 2008 and will continue to follow its implementation in the member states closely. the fourth point concerns ways of informing domestic workers of, and strengthening, their rights. although not all domestic workers are low-skilled and do not all work in precarious conditions, they are a vulnerable category and the commission encourages the member states to ensure they are properly protected by developing and enforcing their labour rights. the commission expects the problem of undeclared work by non-eu nationals to be dealt with in part by the employers’ sanctions directive 2009/52/ec, which the member states have to transpose into national legislation by 20 july this year. the directive will help to end the exploitation of illegally-staying third country nationals by some employers who pay them inadequate salaries and impose unsatisfactory working conditions. one step forward would be agreement on the proposal for a directive on a single permit which provides for a common set of rights for third country workers residing legally in a member state. let me now turn to the fifth and last point regarding the commission’s role in promoting exchanges of best practice involving policy on domestic workers. in this connection i want to mention a private project which the commission is currently implementing at the request of this house, and which seeks to encourage the conversion of precarious work into work associated with rights. following a call for proposals issued under the pilot project in 2010, the commission is co-funding a project that focuses on the consequences of the economic and financial crisis for precarious domestic, migrant and young workers and on member state measures to improve their rights. the project encourages exchanges of best practice, in particular involving precarious workers’ collective representation. a second call for proposals, to be issued this year, will relate more specifically to action to improve the rights of the poorest workers, including domestic workers. the pilot project will also involve a study to gain a better understanding of precarious work in 12 member states, and to promote its conversion into employment relationships carrying more social rights, in particular by looking at what the member states can do in practical terms to encourage this transformation and identify a core of basic social rights. a case study of the situation of migrant domestic workers in italy was carried out recently in connection with a project on decent work and industrial relations cofinanced by the commission. lastly, the european agency for safety and health at work and the senior labour inspectors committee have called for sector-wide information and awareness-raising campaigns on the protection of workers’ health and safety.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, the first thing i want to say is that the socialist members of parliament agree with every word spoken by pervenche berès, chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs, and we are very pleased with the position just taken by the commissioner on this ilo initiative. the socialist members greatly appreciate the work that the ilo has been doing since its inception. we feel that he has made an invaluable contribution to the history of mankind and also to the history of europe. and this new initiative on domestic work is, of course, very important because there are a large number of people in these working circumstances, and because it also affects women and immigrants a lot. we socialists think it would be very good if this draft convention and recommendation were adopted at the next partsession in june, and if parliament, the commission and the council were active - not just passive, but active - so that europe lives up to what it says, so that its actions are in line with what it says. if we do that, we will be helping to spread the decent work programme around the world. we will be helping the world and many people, but we will also be helping ourselves, first of all, to be worthy and to be respected as an institution and as europeans, but also so that our continent maintains its social model, which is impossible to maintain if we are an island of protection and rights in a world of misery and of lack of protection. it is also the time, perhaps, commissioner, for the commission, the council and all of us to reflect on europe. because everything is not solved here either. in europe there are contractual forms, affecting migrants and women in this field of domestic service, which are very precarious and have important gaps. i would like to see us, in the heat of this debate and reflection, understand that there are certain gaps that need to be filled in the legislation of the eu and also in many of its member states. we have problems with the health and safety of these workers. we have problems in many countries with the legal forms in which work is carried out. and we also have a very big problem in combating the abuse and discrimination of immigrants, many of whom work in european families. we have a lot of initiatives right now. commissioner, it would be time to recharge our ethical commitment to help the ilo, to help ourselves and to do a worthy job for the future of humanity.
in view of the tragedy in the region of murcia and particularly in lorca, i wish to express, on behalf of the presidency, our solidarity with that region and with the victims, some of whom were killed. the president will convey, on behalf of parliament, a message of solidarity and condolences to the victims and to that land.
the following is the joint debate on - the report by milan zver, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on youth on the move a framework for improving education and training systems in europe (2010/2307 ((ini)) (a7-0169/2011) - the report by mary honeyball, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on early childhood learning in the european union (2010/2159 ((ini)) (a7-0099/2011) - the report by marietje schaake, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the cultural dimensions of eu external action (2010/2161 ((ini)) (a7-0112/2011) - the report by marie-thérèse sanchez-schmid, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the potential of the creative and cultural industries (2010/2307 ((ini)) (a7-0169/2011)) - the report by doris pack, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the european commission, on the question of sarajevo, the capital of culture (2010/2161 ((ini)) (a7-015114/2011)) - the report by doris pack, on behalf of the committee on culture and culture, on the european commission, in 2014, b7-021561/2011 (a7-0141/2011)).
we have thus concluded the speaking time on behalf of the various committees concerned and i cannot resist the temptation to make a few comments. in these kinds of speeches, made on behalf of each committee, i think that the speaker must make an effort to represent the committee on whose behalf he is speaking. there have been interventions in this debate which, individually, would be perfectly legitimate, but which are absolutely spurious when they are made on behalf of a committee which i am quite sure has not felt represented in the words that have been spoken here. i think this is a reflection, at least for the bureau of parliament, because we cannot allow some of the things that have been said here to be said on behalf of committees representing so many members. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the green group, señor president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as an alternative rapporteur on the youth on the move report and after having tabled several amendments to the reports on the cultural and creative industries and on early childhood learning, i would like to share with you the following reflection. the economic crisis is affecting young people in particular. in many parts of the european union, the youth unemployment rate is over 40%. that is why a report like youth on the move is so necessary, which delves into the policies for the employment of young people. i would like to emphasize four aspects of the report which are very important to me. first of all, i think it is essential to promote mobility. it is a very valuable form of informal learning, which promotes interculturality and equips young people with the tools to develop in a globalised professional environment. secondly, in relation to mobility, it is essential that young people learn other european languages, with a dual objective: to interact fluently in the european environment and to be well rooted in the societies where they live and work, i.e. for social cohesion. thirdly, i would like to stress the policies to promote entrepreneurship. it is essential that we encourage university students' entrepreneurship programmes and, in this sense, we must focus on meeting places between financial actors and students with innovative ideas. finally, i believe that it is essential to promote equal access to university in order to tap into all the talent in europe. we need young people to be actively involved in the economy. we need young people to be able to develop their full potential, because young people are also essential to overcome the crisis.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome the opportunity of this debate we are having, a debate on four reports which we are going to vote on at the end of the morning and which i believe deal with four very important issues to tackle, to try to answer the problems which are central to the european union; reports which talk about how to tackle school drop-outs, youth unemployment, the economic crisis and migration movements. and in this connection, first of all, i would like to make a brief comment on early childhood learning. as mrs honeyball said, i think it's one of the issues that has not been given the attention it deserves, because we know - and we have more and more studies confirming it every day - that it is during early childhood that our cognitive and emotional abilities develop most intensely. and for this reason, all the studies say that investing in the early years of life gives much better returns than doing it later. i believe that the time has come for us to focus not only on university studies or vocational training, as we have done, but also on early childhood education. another report which i think is very important is youth on the move, one of whose main objectives is to tackle school drop-outs. i think this is an issue that is entirely linked to youth unemployment, to the very high rate of unemployment we have in our union. we must take responsibility for the future of these young people, who are our future in the european union. and finally, with regard to the report on the cultural dimensions of the eu's external action, i would like to stress the importance of culture in our cooperation policies, because it is important to promote better mutual understanding with third countries and, at this time of great upheaval south of our borders, i think it makes a lot of sense to answer these questions.
mr becker, i did not want to take you off the floor because i know that this is your first speech in this house, and i welcome you. i hope that in future you will keep up with the times, but in any case i wish you every success in your work as a member of parliament.
mrs verheyen, during your speech the interpreters were telling me that they could not follow you. i did not interrupt because i found it difficult to do so, and i apologize to the interpreters for that. i would like to inform you that the system is being changed so that instead of the warning signal for the president, it will be switched on for each of the honourable members when they are speaking, so that they can see directly that they are not being followed by the interpretation teams.
mr president, allow me to join your words of solidarity with the people of lorca, spain, who have been affected by a natural disaster. it is a land which has shown its solidarity many times and which will appreciate the solidarity we are showing it today from the european parliament. in 1989, commissioner, the then president of the commission, mr delors, said that education and culture should be the soul of europe. today we know that it is not only the soul but also the heart and the muscles of europe, because without equal opportunities, which improve the opportunities of all european children and young people, without the social cohesion provided by education, without the competitive capacity provided by the knowledge disseminated among all citizens, the european union will be weak. but with all that and the culture, he'll have his rightful place in the world.
mr president, i naturally join in the words of solidarity with the neighbours of lorca. and i would like to reiterate, in this debate on education, an important point: the need to include in secondary school studies a specific subject on the background, objectives and functioning of the european union. i spoke of this in the last parliament, in the house, after the failures of the referendums on the constitutional treaty. last year, fortunately, in this house, the løkkegaard report on journalism and new media, which was adopted in september, supported in paragraph 13 the introduction of this subject. i myself had tabled an amendment to that effect. recently, in spain, the government of the autonomous community of valencia decided to include a subject for the coming year. it is an initiative that other regions and countries should follow. i understand that the commission naturally supports such initiatives and i welcome that. ladies and gentlemen, it is only appreciated, it is only appreciated... (the president cut the speaker off)
a motion for a resolution was tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
mr president, thank you very much for your compassionate and supportive words. the lorca tragedy is taking shape. at the moment, we know of eight dead - including two pregnant women and a 12-year-old boy - more than 250 injured, 80 per cent of the houses affected - which means that for many lorca residents, from now on, the sky will be their new home. a large proportion of the lorca people have also lost their jobs and, with them, their hopes, expectations and opportunities. lorca is a city of 70,000 inhabitants, with 20% of them immigrants, whom it has welcomed and given a new life with a new meaning. i know that together, old lorca, new lorca, with the help of the institutions and with the help of everyone, you can start a new journey in your lives. but i must also say and ask that europe leaves no one behind and knows how to support those who suffer, to identify the pain and to stand by them, opening its arms and offering opportunities. thank you all so much. i would like to ask for a moment of silence. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, first of all i would like to express my solidarity with all the people of lorca, in the province of murcia, in spain, with the eight people who died and their families, and with the 250 people who were injured in yesterday's earthquake. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution and did not join my group because i am concerned about the difficult situation in the sector, which has been aggravated by the increase in oil prices. the increase in de minimis aid to enterprises from eur 30 000 to eur 60 000 over a period of just three years can help them in this difficult situation, and i must also say that this increase does not imply any increase in the union's budgets. their implementation should also ensure environmental and social sustainability and should not distort competition between member states. however, the european fisheries fund should continue to support the activity of this sector in order to reduce the dependence of fishermen on fossil fuels, and to make their activity more efficient and equip it with innovative proposals, which should give new opportunities to the shipping sector.
in writing. - i supported this report because of the need to promote a framework for the improvement of education and training systems in europe. youth on the move should be a political initiative to boost existing education, mobility and employment programmes for young people and as an incentive for member states to achieve the europe 2020 objectives
in writing. − funding for programmes such as lifelong learning (erasmus, leonardo da vinci, comenius, grundtvig), marie curie, erasmus mundus and youth in action must increase. the committee proposes to create international cooperation networks at universities, making use of virtual mobility. mobility programmes should be available to vocational students, teachers and youth workers. we call for eu-wide recognition of school, vocational and university qualifications. we also insist on the importance of learning two non-native languages from an early age, including those of neighbouring countries. finally, we call for extra support for disabled young people, young parents and those who wish to get back into education.
in writing. − early childhood learning is key; i fully support the objectives set out above to provide childcare services to at least 90% of children aged 3 years and up to compulsory school age and at least 33% of children under 3 years by 2010.
in writing. − early learning in the eu follows a long and finely differentiated tradition in the different member states. it seems important to define a framework of values and common objectives which could be set as a goal in all member states, while the sharing of good practices remains the key to providing high quality service, with the child’s needs and care at the core of all endeavours. the report focuses its recommendations on the balance between the role of member states and commission; the necessity to make early school a broader service inspired by good practices in member states where ‘maternelles’ and kindergartens are a right of parents; inclusion of all children, whatever their social background (‘notion of public service’); caring for migrant children and their integration in early schools; the inclusion of arts and all tools to enhance the children's creativity; training of educators for better intercultural skills; gender parity while working in structures for early learning; and creation of new and well qualified jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because of the need to open negotiations for the renewal of the protocol between the eu and the islamic republic of mauritania. negotiations to allow eu-flagged vessels to fish in mauritanian waters on the basis of a surplus resource principle as set out in the united nations convention on the law of the sea. it is also necessary for mauritania to ratify the relevant international instruments on fisheries.
in writing. − with this, the ep firstly welcomes the commission’s proposal to open negotiations on the renewal of the protocol between the eu and the islamic republic of mauritania, while underlining that it should be maintained only if it is mutually beneficial, adjusted appropriately and implemented correctly; secondly, welcomes the commission’s proposal to introduce a human rights clause; thirdly, insists that any and all access negotiated for eu-flagged vessels to fish in mauritanian waters must be based on the principle of surplus stocks as described in the un convention on the law of the sea; emphasises, in particular, that there must be a rigorous assessment of all stocks for which access is sought or which are likely to be caught by the eu fleet as by-catch; stresses that any access granted to the eu must relate to those resources which are unable to be caught by the mauritanian fleet; emphasises that, should effort reductions be necessary, those third-country (eu and other) fleets causing the most environmental damage must be the first to make reductions;
in writing. − we finally abstained due to the fact that several epp and ecr amendments, inadmissible to us, were adopted.
in writing. - the real problem in fisheries today is that 70% of stocks in europe are overexploited, because we have a clearly oversized fleet. spending public money to maintain such a fleet is a mistake and an irresponsibility. in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy, a restructuring of the european fishing fleet is more necessary than ever to abandon the use of fuel-intensive vessels emitting large amounts of co2 and practices and techniques clearly destructive to the environment, in order to move towards a model that is less energy dependent, less destructive and more sustainable in environmental, economic and social terms. the fact that we are now in the process of adopting a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from the use of certain dangerous substances in the manufacture of certain dangerous products is a very serious matter.
in writing. − the resolution focuses in particular on: (1) the regulatory environment, calling for better implementation of the sme test – in particular in member states – and for a reduction in bureaucracy and administrative burdens; (2) improving smes’ access to finance through additional funding and instruments within the eib (such as the rsff and equity financing) and an enlarged (and independent) cip; (3) improvements needed to ensure the participation of smes in public procurement; (4) simplification and better targeted r&d&i programmes to promote smes’ innovation management capacity, access to r&d&i services and knowledge-based business services, through, for instance, technology transfer centres and universities; (5) the need for more attention to be paid to skills needed and other social and labour market issues affecting entrepreneurship and smes’ capacities to fulfil their employment potential, in particular managerial skills, digital skills and sustainability skills; (6) action to improve resource efficiency: sectoral sme projects to identify resource efficiency innovation in the value and supply chains; the adoption of an ambitious eco-innovation action plan and more funds for it through the cip; more cost-effective energy efficiency measures to help smes reduce energy bills;
in writing. - i voted in favour of the 'innovation union' initiative because it is the only way to overcome the crisis in a global world. innovation means generating employment, knowledge, technology, caring for the environment, broadening social cohesion and the well-being of citizens. the commitment must be clear from all the member states of the union and must be reinforced by coordination, sharing of good practice and improving the dissemination of successful experiences. there is a future if there is innovation, but i voted for amendment no 1 because i am totally against the funds for the programmes coming from the common agricultural policy funds. this sector, which is also in crisis, deserves to be used for its innovation, because in an innovative europe it is possible to innovate in agriculture, which will thus have the same future as the other strategic sectors.
in writing. − the spanish socialist delegation voted in favour of the merkies report on the innovation union: transforming europe for a post-crisis world, because we agree with and are committed to the fundamental principles it advocates, aimed at laying the foundations for the transition to a smart, sustainable and equitable european economy. but i would like to point out that this vote in favour of the report as a whole does not imply our support for the agreement reached by a majority in the council on enhanced cooperation which excludes the spanish language from the european patent. our vote against the paragraph welcoming this enhanced cooperation shows our firm opposition to it. the enhanced cooperation instrument will have a direct impact on the internal market, territorial cohesion and the right of citizens of the member states to benefit from a linguistic regime of the eu patent with sufficient legal certainty. the proposal to set up a european and community patent court is also 'incompatible with european union law', as the court of justice of the european union has stated.
in writing. − we broadly supported the draft report and submitted a series of amendments which have mostly been included, for instance: an emphasis on green priority objectives: energy and climate change, resource efficiency, regeneration of biological resources and promoting social cohesion; addressing eco-innovation at all stages, including design, through the adoption of a properly-funded and ambitious eco-innovation action plan, as well as the adoption of a strategy for promoting product-service systems and function-oriented business models; promoting the use of open standards as drivers for innovation and open access to publicly funded research, as well as focusing public financing on socially-valuable fields where knowledge is created as a public good, such as inducement prizes in the health sector (we also tried, with varying degrees of success, to propose better wording for ipr issues); we managed to retain the wording welcoming the commission’s efforts to prevent ipr from constituting a barrier to competition and innovation;
in writing. − i fully support the ilo's initiative to adopt a convention supplemented by a recommendation on decent work for domestic workers. in addition, many of these workers are undocumented migrants, which means they are more likely to be exposed to ill-treatment, irregular pay, or violence. on the other hand, undocumented workers are afraid to contact the authorities to seek protection, claim their rights or access health services for fear of being sent back to their home country or being punished by their employer. all domestic workers, regardless of their origin, need to have decent access to work.
in writing. − with this, the ep: (1) welcomes and supports the ilo initiative to adopt a convention supplemented by a recommendation for decent work for domestic workers; calls on those eu member states which are members of the ilo to adopt these instruments at the ilo conference in june 2011; calls on the eu member states to ratify and implement the convention and recommendation quickly; (2) considers that the adoption, ratification and implementation of an ilo convention on decent work for domestic workers can have an impact by reducing the numbers of working poor; (3) considers that the adoption, ratification and implementation of such a convention would address the needs of one of the most vulnerable categories of workers;
in writing. − with this, the ep: 1. welcomes the efforts made by the commission and its agencies as regards joint data collection activities in this field, in particular the initiative in 2009 to create esvac (european surveillance of veterinary antimicrobial consumption); regrets that not all member states have yet joined the esvac network and calls on more countries to do so; calls on the commission to provide the esvac network with sufficient financial resources to perform its tasks; calls on the commission to without delay provide an adequate legal framework in order to give member states the authority to perform an efficient data collection; 2. calls on the commission to strive for a data collection which is harmonised and comparable, also with activities undertaken in third countries such as the united states.
in writing. - i support this report by my group colleague as it underlines the transversality and importance of culture in all aspects of life and argues that culture should be taken into account in all eu external policies.
in writing. − the report did envisage at first the field of external relations at the eu level almost exclusively under the new media perspectives. this is still quite present, as well as the idea that the eu should export its culture. the greens insisted on the promotion of ‘cultural co-operation’ instead. some of the recommendations adopted in the committee on culture and education do not really create something new, like an information website on eu culture programmes and external relations, together with the calendar of eu events in the whole world plus contacts with civil society. some articles, like article 44 on supporting national efforts to implement the protection and preservation of cultural heritage, illegal trade of heritage or products of cultural creation, do not give much sense to the issue itself. in a nutshell, the report fails really to tackle the issue and assembles bits and pieces alongside the present existing possibilities to put culture on the agenda both for the eu and between eu and third countries. it is a new chapter in an effort to fully use culture as a tool for peace.
in writing. − it is important to unlock the potential of the cultural and creative industries (ccis). it is necessary to analyse ccis and the effects of their activities on the european economy, identifying, defining and describing them sector by sector, in order to highlight each of their specific aspects, to better understand their objectives and difficulties and to take more effective action.
in writing. − this is a good time for the commission’s green paper, officially endorsing the economic and social importance of the sector, to prompt discussion on ‘unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative industries’. the growth of cultural and creative industries (ccis) in the european union since the 1990s has been exponential in terms of job creation and of their contribution to gdp. the challenge of globalisation and the arrival of the digital age are providing these industries with major new opportunities to develop, and can improve their hitherto largely untapped potential to create growth and jobs. there is a need for strategic investment to enable cultural and creative industries to invigorate cultural diversity, social and territorial cohesion, growth and employment. to this end, there must be adequate funding, support for ccis to develop in their local and regional environments, and a move towards a creative economy by catalysing their spillover effects on a wide range of economic and social contexts. the greater the availability of european audiovisual content, the greater the potential of characteristically european content to influence cultural diversity. in addition, the creative sector makes a significant contribution to the development of information and communication technologies, and plays a major role at local, regional and national levels.
in writing. − with this resolution, parliament: (1) calls on the council to award the title ‘european capital of culture’ exceptionally to sarajevo in 2014; and (2) asserts its belief that this would be an important step towards transcending past european divisions and showcasing the new europe by awarding the title ‘european capital of culture’ to a city which was the site of such tragic events in the course of the 20th century.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i want to support this resolution, which deals with the human rights violations and war crimes in sri lanka. it is essential, in addition to expressing solidarity with the victims and condemning the violent acts, and in the face of concern about the lack of independence of the judiciary, that it is committed to the development of a serious, impartial and transparent investigation by an independent body to establish responsibility and punish the guilty on both sides of the conflict. the impunity for war crimes must end if we do not want a repetition of these episodes. in sri lanka, among other atrocities, civilians have been bombed. seventy-four years ago, in my country, francoist troops bombed the town of guernica and killed more than half the population. guernica has since become a universal symbol of resistance and peace. but everyone's desire is to move towards reconciliation. we must therefore encourage, help and demand that the sri lankan government continue these processes so that true justice and peace can be achieved.
mr president, mr watson is quite right in saying that the first casualty of any war, and specifically this one, is truth. obviously, we also have to admit that the civilian population is a victim in this kind of conflict, and the un panel has shown clearly that there are responsibilities on both sides: mainly that of the government but also that of the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, and both need to be investigated. what we are saying is that a proper inquiry is very unlikely if the investigating commission comes from the government. what we are asking for is an independent commission to investigate these allegations, identified by the un panel, of war crimes and crimes against humanity. if we do not understand the need for this, we will not have a solution, because peace will come only when justice arrives; justice is possible only on the basis of truth; and truth will come only if we have an independent investigation.
author. − mr president, once again i deplore the persisting climate of fear and intimidation towards political opponents in belarus and the ongoing harassment and persecution of opposition figures since the presidential elections in december 2010. secondly, i strongly condemn all convictions resulting from the criminal charges of mass rioting and find them politically motivated and of a questionable nature. i would like to stress that the trials were held behind closed doors. detainees were refused the opportunity to call their witnesses and to meet in proper conditions and on a regular basis with their legal representatives. the lawyers of the accused received several warnings from the ministry of justice and some of them have been disbarred. i consider that this conduct of the trials lacked impartiality. finally, i condemn the lack of respect for the fundamental rights of freedom of assembly and of expression shown by the belarusian authorities and call for the immediate and unconditional release of the remaining protestors still in custody and for all charges against them to be dropped.
madam president, madam commissioner, to what extent have the weaknesses identified in our r & d system become strengths under the seventh framework programme? fundamental research needed to be promoted and the european research council was rightly created, which in future will have to combine excellence and cohesion better. more researchers were needed and the marie curie actions were launched, which still require a greater effort. the aim was to increase the participation of smes and we have successfully approached 15%, which could be improved by further simplification. and more funding was needed, mostly private, which remains a weakness, not just because of the crisis, but because instruments like ict are frankly upgradable. but, mr audy, i have no doubt that, with the lessons learned in this mid-term review, an even better framework programme will emerge. my congratulations on your report.
the source of the infection that killed 21 people in germany last week is still unknown, which further highlights the rashness with which the german authorities acted. the accusations are particularly serious, since the german market is one of the main consumer markets for agricultural products and, precisely for that reason, it is there that significant investments have been made in promoting these products. that is why the european authorities must act in two directions. in the short term, a compensation mechanism for the most affected european farmers must be ensured and in the medium term, the early warning system for dangerous food will need to be reformed to avoid further unfounded alarms. in any event, such aid must take account of the diversity of the european agricultural sector. the commission's proposal to finance a withdrawal mechanism from the budget of horticultural producer organisations is therefore unacceptable, since in some parts of europe, such as catalonia, these organisations do not exist and the system is therefore not suitable for compensating farmers.
madam president, i would like to express my condolences for all the deaths caused by the e. coli bacteria, but also my indignation at the way in which the german administration has handled the matter, which has been very bad and has caused irreparable damage to all spanish agricultural products. i hope that tomorrow, at the extraordinary meeting of the european union's agriculture ministers, firstly, all the damage caused to spanish farmers will be repaired and, secondly, that lessons will be learned about what not to do in a situation which has caused deaths but also damage to the products of many countries, including my own, spain. we must therefore learn from the experience of this crisis. i naturally hope that tomorrow, at this special meeting, we will be able to make full reparations and return to normalcy, so that products in perfect condition can circulate throughout the european union and the world.
madam president, i join the expressions of condolence for the 21 victims of the e. coli bacteria, but also the expression not of concern but of indignation at the episodes of incoordination in the response which have caused very considerable economic damage to producers and workers in sectors which are crucial to the agriculture of the member states of the european union and, in particular, to spanish cucumber producers, but which have also caused damage to the very idea of europe, to cohesion in europe and to cohesion among europeans, insofar as, once again, prejudice or rumours not sufficiently contrasted have undermined the cohesion necessary to arbitrate the satisfactory, timely and necessary response. so i hope you learn the lessons, which are inexorable. i hope that the council of agriculture ministers will be able not only to provide for compensation for those affected but also to establish a response protocol which learns from the lessons of this sad experience.
mr president, i would like to make three comments on the situation created by the cucumbers. i am the grandson of a german and i have great affection for that country, but it is clear that the german authorities have acted in this case rashly and recklessly. on the other hand, if we look at european action, we find that the action taken by the food safety authority and the commission has been vague, very vague and imprecise; they have failed to coordinate and to direct. thirdly, the injured have the right to prompt financial compensation. but for the moment i propose to this parliament that we organise in brussels or here in strasbourg a major display of european cuisine based on cucumber. the lost honour - a phrase attributed to the german writer heinrich böll - of cucumber growers must be reclaimed. europe is the right place for this.
mr president, you must express your sincere regret at the deaths of 23 people: 22 in germany and one in sweden. it must be said that this crisis is the most convincing proof that the european union must greatly improve its food alert system and its internal coordination. the member states concerned have shown their slowness, inefficiency and ineffectiveness and at this stage, after 23 deaths, we still do not know where the problem is coming from. the european commission must give serious thought to the problems it is causing by its irresponsible actions or by its inaction in times of crisis such as the present, causing economic ruin, the destruction of previously stable jobs, unemployment, helplessness and, of course, a health crisis with very high risks to the health of the population, because while you, from the commission, were echoing irresponsible statements by german regional authorities - very uninformed and quite irresponsible - with the names and surnames of spanish farms, the population was still exposed, without knowing it, to the bacteria: believing that they were avoiding it, the citizens were more exposed than ever to eating something that could harm them. the european commission should, today at the agriculture council, which is meeting in luxembourg at 2 p.m., propose to the ministers that part of the 2.5 billion euro that exists as unused remnants of the common agricultural policy be used. the 2.5 billion euro should be used to repair, as far as possible, the damage caused. for this, we need to find a legal anchor that allows us to do so, a legal anchor that has already been found on other occasions, such as in the 'mad cow' or dioxin episodes, and which should be found now. so, commissioners and ministers, you must live up to your responsibilities in luxembourg today. the german authorities, moreover, in view of the irresponsible accusations, should certainly support this economic solution from the outset and should also finance, from their own funds, communication campaigns to restore consumer confidence in fruit and vegetable production, which has now been lost.
mr president, commissioner, we all want the german food crisis to be over as soon as possible. the victims must be remembered, and i hope that once the initial mistakes have been corrected, the source of the infection can be identified for everyone's peace of mind. but, alongside the health side of this crisis, i cannot help but talk about its economic impact. the spanish fruit and vegetable sector is estimated to be losing eur 200 million a week as a result of the fatal communication errors we are now witnessing. i would like to highlight the responsibility of this sector and its total collaboration with the authorities in my country. commissioner, traceability to the source worked, but how much time was lost by diverting attention to the source, focusing on agricultural production, while ruling out other forms of pollution at the destination, such as handling or distribution? why did the commission respond to hasty information from germany? there has been a lack of coordination, mr commissioner, and the unilateral closure of the border to spanish products is proof of the failure of the european union to monitor the crisis. i call on the commission to activate immediately all the mechanisms to compensate the spanish and european sectors, both economically and in terms of their image with consumers. in the longer term, it will be necessary to see what other measures are taken in this regard. unfounded accusations, improvisation, lack of coordination, loss of millions, attack on the honour and credibility of a sector: is this not enough to demand accountability?
mr president, first of all, i would like to express my condolences to the families of those who have died in this crisis. commissioner, the communication of health risks to the public is a difficult and delicate task, and it must be perfectly documented and verified. it is not a question of finding fault, but on this occasion important mistakes have been made, starting with the reckless and hasty accusations of a responsible regional politician, who has just come to office, which has triggered a social alarm and a very serious economic crisis that cannot be repaired. nor does it seem that the commission has coordinated this crisis very well. i wonder when the first case occurred and whether article 3 of the rapid alert system regulation, which requires member states to report the risk without delay within 48 hours, and also whether article 8 of that regulation, which requires the commission to verify that the information is complete, true and legible and has the appropriate legal basis, has been complied with. the serious shortcomings of this regulation have been revealed and the current legal framework needs to be revised to, among other things, precisely define crisis management procedures by the competent authorities, assign errors or omissions to the causative agent in the food chain - and that is what traceability is for - prevent health protection from hiding trade barriers and arbitrate compensatory procedures for trade and loss of profit. commissioner, it's not the cucumbers or the soybeans. the cause is the pathogen, as mr liese has said. the cause is the escherichia coli bacterium serotype o104:h4, which is already described in all scientific literature and is associated with meat products. but in any case, commissioner, we must let the scientists do their job: they must investigate all traceability throughout the food chain, including the handling and distribution of food.
mr president, commissioner, nothing we do here or in the european union will bring the dead back to life, and hopefully what is being done will prevent more from being made and will stop the chain of sick people who are suffering without having done anything to make them so. we do not know the causes, certainly, but we do know some things that we have to call by their name: there has been negligence in political action and there has been negligence in the german federal government; it cannot act as if hamburg were a city-state from another continent. if mrs merkel and her minister of health had translated the arrogance they have in addressing other states, with unusual frequency, into diligence and efficiency in coordinating, some of the things they have been through would not have happened. and that negligence has had criminal consequences for a state, which has been the spanish state, and for its most important sector, agriculture: it has led to the ruin of thousands of families and small businesses and has discredited the economy for a long time. i ask you to go to the council today and ask for full compensation for those affected, since we cannot ask for life for the dead. and have the control systems checked. and mrs merkel should be held to account. and may he be asked to be less arrogant and more diligent. and hold her responsible for some damage she's caused. you can't ignore that hamburg is in your state. you can't ignore your responsibilities. it cannot take refuge under a decentralized, federal state to cause the damage it has caused. a little more humility, a little more good management and a little less conservatism would have been very helpful if this crisis had not got out of hand and if spain and other farmers in the south had not had to suffer the painful consequences. you must review the controls, review the alert systems and demand accountability, because in spain we are asking you, commissioner, you, the council and the german state to do so.
mr president, we are facing a public health problem, an epidemic, as the commissioner has said, and in this case we are looking for the culprits and not the cause. the system has not worked: we have 22 dead, 1 600 affected and we do not know the cause three weeks later, and, appealing to a precautionary principle without scientific basis - i repeat: without scientific basis - spain is blamed. ladies and gentlemen, the spanish cucumbers were not contaminated. they weren't contaminated! i repeat that because there have been some conflicting reports. but to give you an idea of the significance of what these words have caused: 300,000 jobs could be affected; a loss of confidence. an epidemic knows no borders. i agree with you, commissioner: it knows no borders! we ask for responsibility for what has not been done, which we must do immediately, because germany has a risk problem at the moment - it has the largest number of people affected - but spain is not to blame. we're asking for compensation.
mr president, the most important thing and the thing that unites us here today is the victims, because no one should feel as unprotected as we european consumers feel today. and out of respect for the victims, we need clarity and accountability. it is my responsibility to denounce the german authorities who unjustly and hastily accused the spanish cucumbers and, in particular, the cooperatives of malaga and almeria, which were models of farms and which will not recover from these accusations. thousands of unemployed families are asking why they 'need an answer' and, above all, what their future will be, not only in andalusia but throughout agricultural europe. i therefore ask the commission, hoping that the experts will find a solution quickly, to ask the council today for immediate economic and moral measures for all the producers who, from andalusia and from all over europe, are looking at us with indignation but with hope.
mr president, instead of giving priority to research and european cooperation, the german authorities have slandered and harmed cucumber growers and others. and yet no one in germany has resigned, nor offered reparations to match the damage done. it is germany that has a serious credibility problem. mrs merkel's treatment of the southern countries in the agricultural and financial fields is intolerable. someone said that merkel was a disciple of adenauer and kohl. no, he lacks moral credit.
mr president, it is precisely in crisis situations that we see the effectiveness and confidence in the institutions. in this case, they've left a lot to be desired. the commissioner has said that the suspicions about spanish cucumbers have not been confirmed. no, commissioner, what has been confirmed is that the suspicions were unfounded, irresponsible and lacking in objective data; what has been confirmed is that there are twenty-three dead and that enormous damage has been caused to the spanish fruit and vegetable sector. and what has been confirmed is that the commission has to do what it has not done so far, to act forcefully on several fronts: to stop the outbreak; to prevent unfounded suspicions from being given credence by seriously affecting a member state - in this case spain - by taking the necessary measures; to compensate those who have been harmed without delay; and to restore the 'spain' brand to its associated status of safe and high quality agri-food products.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank you and also all the members who contributed to this debate. i will not have time to react to every single interesting comment that was made, but i can assure you we have taken note of the feeling expressed in this house. today, as i said, i will be attending the council of agriculture ministers. tomorrow i will be in berlin to participate in a coordination meeting between the food safety sector and the health sector, together with the experts we have in place there. my main preoccupation is to stop hospitalisations: that is my first and foremost objective. i am concentrating on mobilisation and on speeding up the identification of the cause of the outbreak. we set up the crisis unit on 30 may 2011 and, at commission level, we were fully mobilised at that point. my public health department mobilised the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) and the ecdc has activated its crisis mode in order to make scientific assessments as rapidly as possible. the commission immediately asked the ecdc to carry out a scientific assessment. in daily meetings with member state experts, the commission has coordinated assessment measures: the establishment of common case definitions, case reporting, patient questionnaires, sharing perspectives on treatment, and hygiene advice to the public are some of the outputs we have achieved in a very short time span. we have to be very careful and we have to keep everything in perspective. it is easy for all of us to sit in judgment with hindsight and to make statements, rather than being in the eye of the storm when a crisis is happening. we have to be careful in our statements and criticism because, while insisting – as i do – that decisions be made on the basis of well-sustained evidence, we should not terrify those who are called upon to take risky decisions, sometimes in very difficult situations, fearing that afterwards they will be put in the dock and everyone will pass judgment on their decisions. i think this aspect of situation management is very important. the same goes for checking and controlling the information that is circulating. we have a system in europe that allows for fast communication and, in order to have fast communication, we apply the subsidiarity principle – looking to the lowest possible level as the base from which communication should start. we have to be careful because, if we begin to add layer upon layer of controls and checks to verify the information circulating, then we will defeat the purpose of speed, and in circumstances where health is concerned, and where life and death is sometimes at stake, speed is of the utmost importance. as regards information, we are supplying continuous information as we receive it. in this respect, we at the commission agree that coordinated and rapid communication is an essential element of risk management. if you remember, in 2009-2010, as a result of our h1n1 experience, we set up a system to coordinate public health communication, and our eu health security committee has a network of communicators. we will need to involve regional actors more effectively in this process, as well as the world health organization (who). as recently as yesterday, i was on the phone with margaret chan, the director-general of the who, about this aspect of coordinating information and ensuring full coordination before any communication takes place. we will study what happened, and undertake closer investigations and analyses. once we are confident that the contamination has been stopped, we will concentrate on what happened in the information sector, with regard to investigation protocols and in terms of coordination across the board when the crisis occurred, and we will then reflect on whether we need more tools and closer european coordination. that may be part of the answer but, as you say, it is going to involve a lot of discussion both here in parliament and also at member state level. on the issue of compensation, this will be discussed this afternoon in the agri council, and i am sure that my colleague commissioner cioloş is doing his utmost to identify and develop ways and means of compensating our farmers who have been suffering as a result of this problem.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the following is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on transport and tourism on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 1999/62/ec on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures (15145/1/2010 - c7-0045/2011 - 2008/0147 ((cod)) (rapporteur: saïd el khadraoui) (a7-0171/2011)
mr president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr el khadraoui, for his tenacity, although i must also say that i pointed out from the outset the special case of the peripheral countries, with their scandalous lack of alternatives to the road. even now - and i take advantage of the fact that mr kallas is here - the commission is questioning the future central crossing of the pyrenees in the next core network. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not going to be voting for the report. to raise the problem of adding even a few cents - to mrs durant's mind, four cents seems to her to be nothing - but we have just passed or are still in the midst of the cucumber crisis, and precisely because of these irresponsible and false accusations without evidence, they have still dealt a brutal blow to thousands of spanish families; not only to farmers, but also to transporters, because precisely those few cents, in the thousands of kilometres and in products such as spanish cucumber, generate a big problem to transport them to the central market, which is precisely where these accusations come from. no, mr. el khadraoui, it's that at the beginning, some first accounts appeared, where it was clearly seen that, through the problems of the levy, it increased, and then they simply disappeared. i've always wondered why those studies disappeared, but the truth is that it was worrying, and we've been told that over and over again. but i would still be willing, and they would be willing, to make the sacrifice if the problems were solved, important problems like congestion. but in the present agreement we have to say that the private vehicle is not included in congestion. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. the spanish socialist delegation is therefore obliged to vote against this agreement.
mr president, it is no coincidence that spain, italy, greece, ireland, portugal and some other countries agree with us in our reluctance to accept the so-called eurovignette. the coincidence in criticism is the cause of our peripheral status, which means that we will ultimately be the ones to pay for this unique tax levied by the states of the european union which have geographical centrality. the ratio which inspired the eurovignette is faced with great contradictions and the supporting discourse is becoming weaker every day. although the rationality of internalizing external costs is accepted as a starting point, in the end it is not supported that, in order to alleviate congestion, only heavy goods vehicles should be penalized, leaving passenger cars out, in the same way as the old slogan 'whoever pollutes pays' is applied with obvious discrimination. on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, in the end only 15% of the revenue from the eurovignette, which was conceived as a source of infrastructure financing, will be used to finance the transeuropean networks and not in a compulsory way, but as a simple recommendation, in a way that the next minister of finance will use the revenue to the extent that he considers most appropriate for the interests of his country, within the broad infrastructure chapter. the final result will be nothing but a further obstacle to the transport of goods by road, which is currently the only way the internal market is allowing. this is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, the reality which is much more stark in a context of economic crisis. the competitiveness of european products on world markets cannot be allowed to be compromised by experiments which may contribute to further worsening the precarious situation of the european economy by imposing new added costs. finally, the food crisis, which has been recklessly imposed on spanish products, has unfairly penalized and caused huge losses to those who are penalized by the eurovignette: freight forwarders and farmers of prime crops. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for their comments and i would like to make some remarks. firstly, eurovignette is not a european tax. this must be made very clear. in that sense it is a bad name. on the contrary, it is a directive which limits and regulates national charges. we have 22 countries with different tolls and charges for different types of vehicles – heavy vehicles and private cars. all users from different countries pay these tolls if they appear on this network. secondly, please accept the compromise. this is much bigger and more complicated than it looks. there are two fundamental continuing fights behind this. the first is a fight about principle – who should pay for the use of infrastructures and what specifically they should pay for. so it is going in the right direction. the ‘user pays’ and ‘polluter pays’ principle will inevitably continue. this is the direction that things are going. the second fight is much more continuous and sharper. it is a conflict between the countries which have heavy transit traffic, which of course want more flexibility to address problems with their infrastructure, and clearly want to share the burden for the use of infrastructure between taxpayers and all users – i stress all users: there cannot be any discrimination. of course there is a group of countries who are fiercely against it. this was also very visible here during the debate. i must just remind you that on 15 october the council agreed on the political compromise. it was just short of a blocking minority and the fight continues here now. mr el khadraoui has done tremendous work to reach a good compromise and to have a good proposal for this compromise. i sincerely ask you to please support this compromise. it appears to have a lot of details that are not satisfactory in different parts and to different people but it is a really big step. this issue has been up in the air for years and years. now we are taking a step forward.
the president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen of the house. first of all, i want to thank you for this valuable discussion. there were many arguments and counter-arguments. this shows, as the commissioner has indicated, that a compromise has been reached. it has been a very difficult, difficult and struggling process, but i am convinced that it is a european success, as mr leichtfried has already indicated. i would also like to thank you for the recognition you have given to the hungarian presidency. like all compromises, this is a serious balancing act that's been made. we had to balance environmental and economic sustainability. i reject the argument that the council has not been concerned with environmental protection. if it wasn't important, there wouldn't be a policy. we also had to strike a balance - and i would like to say this to mr de grandes pascual - between the centre and the periphery. indeed, there was a very big debate in the council on how best to ensure that the peripheral countries do not feel excluded, and finally a qualified majority was achieved in the council, and i hope - and i think the debate in parliament showed - that too. it may be said that this is just a drop in the bucket, but i think, and i am glad that this has been acknowledged by many in the debate, that we have taken a very important first step in internalizing costs and in recycling revenues back into the sector. although, as with all compromises, this is not the most perfect, and i am confident that we will be able to take further steps together in the years ahead. i would mention three specific cases to which several questions were addressed. the first is the use of the proceeds, and i would like to return to the comments made by mr sterckx. the agreement contains a detailed recommendation to the member states on the exact use of the revenue and states, inter alia, that at least and i emphasise this to mrs meissner 15% of the revenue generated should be used to finance transeuropean transport projects. i would also like to add that this is the result of a proper compromise, and as dirk sterckx has suggested, a good and proper one, although it may just be a first step in the right direction. the second specific question was also for mr sterckx about the cost of traffic jams. the agreement reached with the european parliament covers this problem, since it allows member states to set road charges differently depending on the location and time of day. as you know, member states have the option of charging higher infrastructure charges during peak periods. this increased differentiation of infrastructure charges is an alternative way of combating congestion, even if only air pollution and noise are taken into account in the calculation of external costs, the differentiation mechanism introduced by the directive can still contribute effectively to reducing congestion on european roads. finally, i would like to answer the third question you have raised, which concerns the question of external costs raised by mrs lichtenberger. the council adopted its position at first reading on 14 february this year, and then, at the request of parliament, we introduced a provision in the directive to give a political signal to citizens about the environmental characteristics of heavy goods vehicles, and thus we included the possibility of an external cost charge for euro 0,1,2 and 3 vehicles in the surcharge applied in mountain areas. as euro 3 vehicles are less polluting than the other most polluting euro emission classes, they will only be subject to the double charging scheme from a later date, while the others will be subject to it from the entry into force of the directive. and, in addition, the agreement with the european parliament provides for incentives to promote the renewal of the fleet, including for the least polluting vehicles, namely euro 5 and euro 6 vehicles. ladies and gentlemen of the house, mr. president. it is clear from today's debate that the eurovignette directive is a very important step for the transport sector. the specific proposal on heavy goods vehicles is not only important in itself, it is also symbolic. it is the first to apply - and i am glad that you have confirmed this in your speeches - the polluter pays principle and to launch a long process of debate and implementation leading to the internalisation of the external costs of all modes of transport. the hungarian presidency, mr president, is very pleased that this agreement with the european parliament has been reached and i am confident that the measure now being discussed by parliament will increase economic efficiency and reduce the negative environmental impact of the transport sector, and that the citizens of the union will benefit from the adoption of this directive.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. − in favour. the case relates to an alleged offence of defamation which does not come within the scope of ms hankiss’ political activities as an mep, but relates instead to a statement made in 2004, before she was elected an mep. the rapporteur has also found no evidence of fumus persecutionis.
in writing. − in favour. in the ambit of the better-law-making approach, the commission proposes to repeal a 1998 council regulation under which importers have to provide proof of origin of textiles and articles of apparel for eu customs procedures. the regulation had value as long as quantitative restrictions on textiles and articles of apparel existed through the wto’s multifibre agreement. this agreement was terminated in 2005. by 2008, the agreement on textiles and clothing between the eu and china and all other surveillance systems for imports of textiles and clothing from china had also ended. textile and clothing imports from belarus and north korea, neither of which are members of the wto, are still subject to quantitative restrictions. the system of import authorisations still remains in place for controls on these imports, which however do not pose problems with regard to the functioning of the eu market. this system is deemed sufficient. all in all, parliament is advocating a new ‘made-in’ labelling regime, which is currently a sleeping beauty after the conclusion of the first reading in 2010. such a regime would provide much better control possibilities – and also consumer information – than the old proof of origin regulations.
in writing. − we supported the mandate of emcdda in 2006. as regards the specific situation in croatia, it is a transit route through which illicit drugs are smuggled on their way from the producer countries to consumer countries. significant and large-scale cocaine seizures in croatia are mostly connected with sea transport. in the last 10 years, the number of deaths has gradually increased in croatia. a majority (77.1 %) of the cases of deaths were associated with opiates. in 2008, the total number of reported drug related offences was 7 168. in 2009, a total of 7 934 persons were treated by the national drug addiction institutes. the number of seizures decreased for all drugs except heroin when compared to the previous year and, in general, progress has been made in combating drug abuse. generally croatia’s anti-drug legislation is similar to that of the eu member states. however, the rapporteur’s position points out that, from 2010 on, every therapeutic community has to provide the office for drugs with data on treated patients. it would be good to obtain more information on the scope of this obligation. nevertheless, this is an issue for domestic legislation, not the agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. on 14 june 2010 the commission published its action plan on global navigation satellite systems (gnss), which included 24 specific recommendations for action. the background to the action plan is the general deployment of global satellite navigation systems and specifically the development and deployment of egnos (european geostationary navigation overlay service), the forerunner of the galileo system. the sector as a whole has experienced enormous expansion since the first provision of gps services from american satellite facilities in 2000. the estimated global market value in 2008 was eur 124 billion, and it is projected to reach eur 230 billion by 2025. of this, 20% is represented by intelligent transport systems (its) and 5% by safety applications, including transport safety applications. the eu launched the egnos project (and galileo) to provide signals guaranteed for civilian use and to ensure that european industry at all levels has an opportunity to compete in this growing strategic market. europe’s current market share of 25% is below expectations. egnos is gps compatible but it will offer more possibilities when galileo becomes operational in 2013. egnos is 10 times more accurate than gps.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, extended the circumstances in which parliament’s consent was required for the conclusion of an international agreement. air agreements now fall within this category because they cover a field to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies. previously parliament had only been consulted on such agreements. in view of this change, the committee on transport and tourism decided to draw up an own-initiative report with the aim of setting out some general principles on how air agreements should be evaluated, covering both their substance and the procedures the committee might adopt to ensure it is well informed throughout the course of negotiations and has an opportunity to express its priorities well before being confronted with the yes/no choice of consent.
in writing. - that is why we voted in favour, because we are not convinced by the false arguments of the psoe and the pp on the competitiveness of the sector; gaining competitiveness also means generating incentives for investment in more efficient means of transport, it means fair competition rules and it means internalizing the social and environmental costs of economic activities in general. the greens-efa have always worked for the internalisation of costs, to achieve a socially and environmentally fair price for all commodities. we know that the minimum proposal falls far short of our aspirations, but it is also a vote of confidence that the process will not stop here and that the recognition of the need to internalise transport costs is an important step. we keep reminding member states that they must go further and legislate fairer and more efficient charging systems that include all the external costs mentioned and we call on the commission to continue working towards a future more ambitious proposal on this.
in writing. − i abstained on the eurovignette vote today. i abstained because, in the case of catalonia, what is proposed would penalise a lot of small and medium enterprises that do not have the option of putting goods and products on trains – in particular because of the difference of gauge, which constitutes a physical barrier to completion of the internal market – and would damage their business greatly.
in writing. − we voted in favour. the proposal creates environmental economic accounts as satellite accounts to esa 95 by providing methodology, common standards, definitions, classifications and accounting rules, intended to be used for compiling environmental economic accounts. at the initial stage, the environmental accounts to be compiled within the common framework shall be grouped in the following modules: a module for air emissions accounts; a module for environmentally related taxes by economic activities; a module for economy-wide material flow accounts. on the basis of our amendments adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the compromise negotiated with the council contains, in addition to the accounts initially proposed, a requirement for the commission to report by the end of 2013 and examine extension of the accounts to cover material stocks (and not only flows) as well as eco-system services. agreement on this requirement for member states to provide data with harmonised methodology on environmental economy is actually a positive concrete step in the ‘beyond gdp’ process.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, first of all i am very grateful for your broad support for the strategy that was presented to you. i will just run through a couple of elements that were raised in the debate. the people of north and south sudan are undoubtedly the masters of their countries. we are supporting the process, but the referendum definitely represents a watershed: it is a completely new qualitative situation. it is not the same situation as before. yes there is violence, there are difficulties, but the situation is different. now we see a light at the end of the tunnel. so that is why i would say that it is a great victory for us because we supported the process politically, both through our own actions and in financial terms. so that is a completely new situation. we never compromised on human rights or international criminal court issues. our position is very clear with regard to both the icc and human rights. whenever there is a violation of human rights, the high representative makes very strong and clear statements and puts pressure on the authorities. it has been said that there is no immediate response, but changes are being made. it is not an easy process and we will continue to deal with it. on abyei, the situation is difficult, but again the european union position will be very a clear and strong condemnation of the occupation calling for the situation to be resolved immediately. it is basically up to the united nations security council to decide on the situation. it will decide if there is to be another mission and if there is a united nations security council resolution, we will be its greatest supporters. but what we need to bear in mind is our strong political stance and declaration and our support for civilian operations. i believe, as i said to south sudan, that we should not expect all the issues to be resolved by 9 july. independence will be declared, there will be ongoing discussions and the important element is that the african union panel, chaired by thabo mbeki, has support from both sides, north and south. we are very firmly behind the mbeki panel. so we have every reason to believe that all the difficult questions will be answered. with regard to the debt issue, work is under way as part of the heavily indebted poor countries initiative. this takes time and the abyei issue certainly did not help. but that issue has not been forgotten. china, in as much as we can involve it, is a fully-fledged member of the security council and it would be a great help in finding solutions in the country. at this stage i cannot claim that there has been a lot of activity with the chinese. they are in oil, they are in the north of sudan, but it is definitely a great help when the broader international community tries to find a solution to the issues. last but not least, i am very grateful for your interest in sudan. on the one hand it is rather far from us, but on the other it is very close. if things go wrong, if people are dying in africa, the european union cannot stay on the outside saying ‘well it is too far’. your broad interest in the issues definitely encourages both the high representative and myself to put together efforts to help people build peaceful lives.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am particularly glad of the opportunity to participate on behalf of the council in the debate on the extension of the schengen area to bulgaria and romania. this has been a consistently high priority for the hungarian presidency. i am therefore especially pleased that by now both bulgaria and romania have received positive evaluation of their technical preparedness to apply the entirety of the schengen acquis. we welcome the fact that the assessment by this parliament has also led to similar conclusions. i particularly commend the work of the rapporteur, carlos coelho, for his professional and personal dedication. for a moment, allow me to deviate from the protocol for the sake of a historic reference. when the accession of hungary and other new member states from central europe to schengen was hampered by a technical difficulty related to the development of the schengen information system, the sis ii, it was the then portuguese presidency that helped us with a generous and inventive solution. i would also like to thank the chair, mr lópez aguilar, and all the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for their commitment to this issue. the hungarian presidency has made considerable efforts to take this dossier forward. the presidency became aware early on that there was a need to address persistent reservations on the part of a number of member states vis-à-vis the process. the presidency therefore put the state of play of the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen on the agenda of the jha council meeting on 24 and 25 february. on that occasion the council endorsed the presidency’s conclusions on the progress made and the need to continue to work in close cooperation with all member states towards a solution acceptable to all parties involved. both bulgaria and romania have taken very significant steps to bring their countries’ policy and practice up to the schengen standards. these include areas such as data protection, police cooperation, the control of external air, sea and land borders, the issuing of visas and the appropriate implementation of the sis and sirene functions. in the meantime the schengen evaluation of romania and bulgaria on all chapters was completed in march with a positive outcome. following the adoption of the relevant reports by the relevant council working party, the presidency submitted draft conclusions on the completion of the evaluation process to the jha council scheduled for 9 june. i know that this will be good news for most in this house, not least those members from bulgaria and romania. it will mark an important step on their way towards full participation in schengen. the council will continue to monitor further progress in all areas since proper follow-up is an ongoing exercise in all schengen countries. in this respect, i can assure the honourable members that both bulgaria and romania will continue to report regularly on the steps taken to remedy the remaining shortcomings. they will, in particular, be looking to reinforce further the controls at their borders and to improve cross-border police cooperation as well as their systems for the issuing of visas. when parliament adopts the report prepared by mr coelho and the council adopts the conclusions drafted by the presidency, only the very last step – adopting the decision of the council which, as we all know, requires unanimity – will be left. in this respect, i would like to underline that the council may return to this issue very soon to reflect on how it can further the process, possibly in september this year. the report prepared by the rapporteur touches upon the subject of access to classified documents – as was also mentioned by the rapporteur in his introductory remarks – which was an important question in dealing with this dossier. parliament’s access to classified documents is one of the outstanding interinstitutional issues between the council and parliament that the hungarian presidency is aiming to resolve. while we have managed to agree on the way forward with parliament’s delegations, the implementation of the solution found still requires some time. however, the hungarian presidency looked, right at the beginning of its term, for an immediate solution in order not to delay the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. in that context, it was at the proposal of the hungarian presidency that the council gave its assent so that parliament could have access to documents pertinent to the accession of the two member states to the schengen area. all in all, the hungarian presidency is convinced that the enlargement of the schengen area to include bulgaria and romania, now that they meet all the technical and legal criteria, would be beneficial for the entire schengen cooperation and for europe as a whole, where one could travel from the black sea to the atlantic without being stopped to show a passport or identity card. we all know that this free movement is one of the fundamentals of our european union – something which is really tangible for our citizens and something of value which we all have to safeguard.
member of the commission. − mr president, schengen is indeed a fantastic achievement. it is one of the most tangible gifts that the european institutions have given to europe’s citizens – the fact that, as the presidency said, you can actually drive from finland to portugal without stopping at any border control. we must safeguard schengen and the latest debate on reintroducing borders must be stopped. we have already discussed on many occasions how we should strengthen schengen, and not weaken it. we need more europe on this, and not less europe. we need better evaluation, better tools and better guidelines and recommendations on how to interpret the schengen acquis. this will be discussed with member states in the council this week, but also later at the european council at the end of june. i would like to congratulate romania and bulgaria on the considerable efforts they have made. i have seen with my own eyes that they have done a lot of hard work. one of the advantages of being late is that you can benefit from the latest technology. i have been impressed by the technology and the work that has been put in place by romania and bulgaria and i would like to congratulate them on these investments. the result is that they both now meet the technical criteria of schengen and they are committed and deserve the trust of the european union. the commission welcomes this report on the work by romania and bulgaria and i would like also to thank mr coelho and the shadow rapporteurs for this report and this approach. the commission has always taken the line that there is no formal link between the cvm mechanism and schengen accession. but of course we all know that access to schengen is also based on trust, and trust, or lack of trust, has been very much debated in the last weeks. the decision to lift internal border controls with romania and bulgaria must not only be based on the technical evaluation but also on this trust, and unfortunately that trust is not there today. that is why it was so important, as the presidency outlined, to work with member states to find a swift solution to this so that borders could be lifted as soon as possible. this must remain a priority. the council, which has the say on this, must define a clear framework with clear timetables related to border control so that romania and bulgaria can see a way forward. they have demonstrated that they are ready to join, that they have made the necessary progress, and hopefully there will very soon be a possibility to achieve a way forward and a decision by the council.
on behalf of the ppe group i congratulate mr coelho, mr president, and i do so because rigor is his usual line. i would add that we must help bulgaria and romania. i trust in bulgaria and romania. you have worked hard for what you deserve. what you get is not a gift, but what you get is what is expected of you. the president-in-office of the council and commissioner malmström have said that they are technically and legally compliant, and i join them in their voice. i do not think we have to take into account any criteria other than purely technical and also legal ones. these criteria are summarised in five. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the schengen information system is fully operational. they are also strictly compliant with sis and sirene. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that by including romania and bulgaria in the schengen area, which includes more than 400 million people, we are adding and not subtracting, we are building more europe. and we must not use the double-barreled. and we should not demand from romania and bulgaria conditions which we do not demand from the rest of the member states in order to be in that area of freedom. so, to conclude my speech, i want to make it clear that i want the council to receive a strong, powerful and majority signal from this parliament. i would like to congratulate you again, mr coelho, and romania and bulgaria.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is the very existence of the financial perspective that has made the development of the union's programmes possible. this debate and the subsequent vote are therefore of great importance for the union's finances. parliament is taking the political initiative for the first time in the european budget; it will be for the commission and the council to react to this proposal and present their alternatives. parliament has drawn up a proposal marked by consensus and collaboration. one year of work, 1,100 amendments, 120 commitments, 11 parliamentary committees and 10 national parliaments have contributed to this. i would like to congratulate all the officials and assistants who have worked during the year to make this report possible. institutional cooperation: the college of commissioners, headed by josé manuel durão barroso, with the commissioner for financial programming and budget, janusz lewandowski, in particular, has been fully cooperative. we hope that the proposal they will draw up on 29 june will be consistent with the recommendations contained in our report. we cannot continue to make more europe with less budget; not anymore. we want to put an end to this bad habit of accepting solemn political commitments without any possible funding. we have enough experience in this respect with the lisbon strategy and we do not want strategy 2020 to be another failure that increases disappointment and euroscepticism. that is why we have made strategy 2020 the linchpin of the next financial perspective. we firmly believe in the effectiveness of community spending. one euro managed by the community budget is more efficient than one euro spent individually in 27 national budgets. we have tested the idea of added value and we believe that it can be applied to practically all community programmes. we ask the european commission to do so. european policy cannot be understood without sufficient funding for agricultural policy and cohesion policy. we therefore ask the council to maintain the level of expenditure for both policies beyond 2013. research, development, innovation, investments in energy efficiency, renewable energy, trans-european communications networks and energy interconnection, climate change and education are among the priorities that this community budget should cover. we believe that cutting the community budget is not a viable option for those of us who believe in a competitive europe. we consider that at least a 5% increase over the total expenditure in the current financial perspective is necessary. this increase is the minimum necessary to cover the major traditional policies and the new priorities. that 5% is an exercise in political realism and should be the basis for future interinstitutional negotiations, together with the appropriate proposal made by this report, with the agreement of the groups in this house, on a new system of own resources. it is perhaps the worst time to start negotiating the financial perspective, with the crisis and the rescue plans, but for all those of us who believe in the community budget as a necessary instrument for transforming the 27 member states into a real union, the challenge is there, and we ask for the courage to face it. the good and bad aspects of the report, the praise and criticism, will be brought out in today's debate. i know that we cannot have the unanimous support of the house on such a sensitive subject, but i would like to thank the political groups for the generosity with which they have sought consensus and the talent they have brought to bear during this time; thanks to them the final report is infinitely better than what i, without their support, would have been able to achieve.
you will all understand, ladies and gentlemen, that in taking over the presidency of the sitting i am expressing my sorrow and dismay at the death of jorge semprún, who died a few hours ago at the age of 87. in jorge semprún we celebrate the prisoner of the buchenwald concentration and extermination camp, the fighter against the forces of nazism in france and against the franco dictatorship in my country, spain. we also welcome the very prominent and committed writer, who has contributed in particular to our european book of the year programme, and we also welcome the convinced european politician. i also mourn his death as his comrade and friend, and i will ask president buzek to send his family and the spanish government a message of sympathy and solidarity which i am sure we all share here. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to begin by praising the work done by the rapporteur and all the colleagues in the sure committee and, above all, by praising the consensus that has been reached in this year of work to achieve a majority agreement and a majority support in the european parliament for a report such as the one we are presenting here today; a report which is the road map that the european union must follow if we are to achieve the political, economic and social objectives we have set ourselves and if we are also to overcome the challenges we are going to face in the coming years. it is the script for getting out of the crisis and for our growth, as the europe 2020 strategy says, to be smart, sustainable and inclusive. if we agree that the european union is worth much more than the sum of its 27 member states, if we are in favour of good and responsible agriculture, if we want to achieve the millennium development goals, or if we want to help our mediterranean neighbours on that path to democracy, if we want to continue investing in research and innovation, if we want to continue fighting climate change or investing in education, training and erasmus grants, if we continue to believe in cohesion policy as a tool for sustainable development and solidarity between our countries, and if we continue to support, for example, the transeuropean energy and transport networks, in short, if we want to continue to want more europe, we are advocating a bigger budget for the european union. that is why we warn in this report that without sufficient resources we will not achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. we know that some members of the council - we have seen it here - do not agree with increasing the budget. nor were they during economic boom times. now they say it's because of the crisis, but when the current financial perspectives were negotiated they were also cut. we therefore ask the council, if it does not agree to this increase in the budget, to tell us what objectives it does not want to achieve. but we are not just indicating in this report the policies we want to achieve. we also talk about how to finance them and we raise the question of own resources. a debate that wants to end the false debate of net taxpayers, who want funding without checks, without exceptions, who want fair funding. we have proposed several options for this, but there is one which i prefer, and which commissioner lewandowski knows very well: the financial transaction tax, or, as it is known in many of our countries, the robin hood tax. a tax that would allow the collection of between 200 and 300 billion euros, a tax that would penalize speculators and make all those who have been profiting by playing with the money of all of us pay, a tax that would allow for transparency and curb financial speculation, and a tax, above all, that would not affect citizens, because it would make those directly responsible for the crisis pay for their excesses. we are asking them, really, for one thing only: more ambition. more ambition to get the european project on its way and not to get stuck, because we would lose the future.
mr. pieper, can you explain to him why it's a dream?
mr president, this obsession to focus only on how much to cut and not on how and what, and even less on how to get in, is already worrying. firstly, more europe means better europe in that it means less economic power for the states. secondly, we must also look at expenditure, of course. but let us look at where: one proposal would be to reduce military spending; another, to reduce the two seats of the european parliament to one. let's put those examples as the most important ones. and thirdly, what has worried me most is to see mr lewandowski smiling, in a way which i think is worrying, when the subject of the financial transaction tax has been raised. i am concerned, and i ask you how it is possible that it is so bad, so harmful, to ask that those who are least to blame not pay for the crisis, but that those who have become rich by speculating do so, and not as you did yesterday, asking spain to reduce social spending through reducing the spending of the ... (the president cut the speaker off)
with this speech we end the point of the president's 'catching the eye' and i apologize to the eleven or twelve members who were registered and were not able to speak, but there is obviously no time for their speeches.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have already used up my speaking time so i shall make just two short remarks. first, in the present international context of austerity, the european budget, which is without deficit, cannot be blamed for the mismanagement of national finances. it can, however, help create jobs and growth because it is about investment. in this, it differs from national budgets, which are mainly about social transfers. second, as regards promises to the farmers in europe, gradual convergence is realistic. a flat rate is not feasible at the moment, and i believe it will remain that way in the coming years. finally, on behalf of the commission, i expect the forthcoming vote to reflect the broad consensus in this chamber, making the voice of the european parliament strong and influential.
we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would first like to thank the national delegations who have resisted - and i know they have resisted - pressure in their member states and will vote in favour of this report. i think that this is not a debate on budgetary volume but on the supremacy of the community method, and i think that those who have focused this debate on efforts to reduce the community budget have been wrong. they want new priorities and less budget; and i say to them: in that way what they will get is less budget and less priorities. i do not understand why you are sitting in this house and advocating an intergovernmental approach. let the council take that step; you should defend a european union with its policies, its priorities, its responsibilities, and with a sufficient budget. we do not want to increase european public spending by 5%, but we want to reduce the burden on national budgets and concentrate certain transnational investments in the community budget, where they could be implemented more efficiently. that is the european added value that all the groups in this house have accepted in the sure committee during this year. i think this is a far-reaching proposal; it is an ambitious proposal which requires important decisions in the member states, and we ask them to rise to the challenge that is being asked of them. i would like to thank you for the constructive nature of the proposals and the debate, which i think has been sufficiently lively and fully expresses the mosaic of sensibilities that unites this european parliament. i think we will come out of this debate, in any case, much richer as a house and with a much higher political stature.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. (the sitting was suspended for a moment) written declarations (rule 149)
in writing. - i have approved this initiative because romania and bulgaria adopted the schengen acquis when they joined the eu in 2007. following the relevant expert assessments, although there are still some problems to be resolved, both countries have shown that they are prepared to apply the provisions of the schengen acquis and can therefore have full accession to it.
in writing. − we support the accession of bulgaria and romania provided that all preconditions are met (as is the case, according to the experts’ opinion).
in writing. − in favour. we recommend that the council advances effective multilateralism as the overriding strategic concern of the union and strengthens the coherence and visibility of the eu as a global actor at the un, inter alia by better coordinating internal eu consultation on un issues and by promoting greater outreach on a wide range of issues. the vice-president/high representative (vp/hr) should be authorised to draft guidelines for regular consultations between the ambassadors of the member states and the eu ambassadors, especially between those working at a multilateral level in places like geneva and new york, so that the eu can successfully pursue its un agenda and meet the expectations of un members regarding its ability to act. greater cohesion should be fostered both within the un system and between the positions of eu member states and candidate and potential candidate countries, so as to maximise the potential offered by the lisbon treaty to strengthen the eu’s impact through the coordinated and strategic use of its various and distinct (eu and member state) entry points. its ability to negotiate with other regional groups should be enhanced in a timely manner and the eu representatives provided with a proper mandate to negotiate effectively on behalf of the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the europe 2020 programme sees research and innovation as a key element in overcoming the crisis through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. to this end, the 7th framework programme should increase its funding from 2013. the commitment of member states to continue the programmes should be required because it requires more collaboration between technology platforms, universities and industry, as well as further simplification of procedures to remove the difficulties for smes to access r & d programmes.
in writing. − in favour. the report was already adopted unanimously by the itre committee, takes on board the recommendations of the expert group and identifies further scope for improvement of the various eu research instruments. for instance: more open access and dissemination of research results, wider calls in the field of socio-economic sciences, more collaborative research, efforts to improve the mobility of researchers, more actions for innovative smes, better coordination with the member states. the report does not cover the issue of iter or of galileo investments. on the negative side, the text is sometimes too much oriented towards the economic role and competiveness of research and innovation rather than towards what research and innovation can bring to society as a whole.
in writing. − in favour. negotiations with canada on a far-reaching comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) are well advanced and could be concluded this autumn. the ceta is by far the most ambitious bilateral fta the eu has ever negotiated under the 2006 ‘global europe’ trade strategy. it includes far-reaching chapters on services, procurement, investment protection, intellectual property, and regulatory cooperation.
in writing. − in favour. cra ratings fulfil several useful purposes, they aggregate information about the credit quality of issuers in a global environment with asymmetric information between debt issuers and investors, allowing issuers to access global and domestic markets, reducing information costs and widening the potential pool of investors, thus providing liquidity to markets and helping find prices. however, developments in the regulatory framework have made these ‘information intermediaries’ de facto ‘regulatory licensors’. the recent financial crisis has highlighted that there are three key problems in the industry: lack of competition, over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework and no liability for ratings by cras.
in writing. - i support the klinz report to move forward with the process of reforming the rating agencies. while the first legislative initiative subjected these agencies to regulation and supervision and the second clarified the supervisory powers of the european supervisory authority (esma), this resolution advocates reducing regulatory dependence on external ratings, structuring the industry in a competitive framework and improving their business models in line with the financial stability forum criteria. the final text contains my amendments. the aim was to strengthen the capacity of supervisory authorities, to create a level playing field at global level, to increase competition by avoiding rating shopping and to establish standardised disclosure processes. in the area of sovereign debt, he advocated that the action of rating agencies avoid procyclicality and take into account the forecasts of the main international financial institutions. it also called for proposals from the commission to reform payment models and to hold people accountable for inappropriate behaviour. finally, i welcome the fact that the report considers the establishment of an independent european rating agency and the possibility of a european foundation.
in writing. − in favour. the external dimension of social policy includes activities and initiatives of the eu aimed at promoting labour and social standards in non-member states. although the lisbon strategy gave – and the eu2020 gives – to social policy an emphasis that is greater than ever before, the issues of competitiveness and economic factors continue to take priority over social issues. core labour standards are embedded in the eight ilo conventions that focus on the freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation and the abolition of child labour. it is clear not only from these conventions but also from the report of the world commission on the social dimension of globalization that it is necessary to change the narrow focus on markets into a wider interest in people, i.e. focus on the protection of workers’ rights and the rule of labour law. in order for the eu to negotiate with non-member states, they must respect all the above-mentioned issues. this is a condition without which negotiations with non-member states are impossible. trade policy cannot ignore any failure to respect workers’ rights and therefore the development of society may continue only after these drawbacks are removed.
in writing. − in favour. the possibility and ability to learn and work in an international context is a prerequisite for a successful working life in a globalised economy. there is a growing need for mobile, flexible employees with international experience. the europe 2020 strategy lists the key factors for smart growth (fostering knowledge, innovation, and education, and promoting the digital society), sustainable growth (more resource-efficient production going hand in hand with enhanced competitiveness), and inclusive growth (increasing the employment rate, training, and eradicating poverty). what is needed, as far as vocational education and training are concerned, is to take practical steps at eu level and in the member states to breathe life into the strategy. in spite of the severe effects that the economic crisis is having on the european labour market, it can be assumed that employment growth in europe will recover, at least gradually, over the next ten years. according to cedefop’s current europe-wide skill supply and demand forecast, the number of new jobs up to 2020 is estimated at 80 million.
in writing. − in favour. 2011 is a strategic moment to draw lessons from the four years regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation (dci) has been in operation. the commission has announced that it will present its proposals for the post-2013 multiannual financial framework (mff) before the summer recess and the legislative proposals for the financing instruments for external action later this year. the purpose of this report is to establish at an early stage parliament’s position with regard to a new financing instrument for eu development cooperation, based on the lessons drawn from our scrutiny of the implementation of the dci.
in writing. − we abstained. moreover, we presented an alternative resolution in which we wanted to clarify the role of impact assessment and external experts in the impact assessment process. impact assessment can only be an aid for making political decisions and should never replace political decisions within the democratic decision-making process.
in writing. − in favour. the report intends to respond to the recent commission green paper on european contract law and to set out the parliament’s priorities in this area. the potential benefits of european contract law for the internal market have been discussed in the interinstitutional framework and with the broad public for a many years, and parliament pronounced for the first time on the issue in 1989. the commission broadened the debate by issuing its communication of 2001, focusing on possible problems which divergences in contract law might raise within the internal market and on possible options for action. within the light of the responses to this consultation, the commission issued an action plan in 2003, proposing, inter alia, the elaboration of a common frame of reference and containing definitions, common principles and model rules, with a view to improving the quality and coherence of european contract law. in a further communication, in 2004, the commission set out the follow-up to that action plan and also proposed to review the union acquis in this area. in 2008 it submitted a proposal for a directive on consumer rights.
in writing. in favour. as my colleague sandrine bélier has said, this report, although not quite up to the ambitions and guidelines it could have set, is a first step and a strong signal to the council and the commission that europe should embark on a reform of the indicators of wealth and development that are more in line with the environmental and social realities and constraints we are facing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the environment. it opens the way to the recognition of new, fairer and more appropriate indicators to enable us to initiate the ecological and social transition of our societies.
in writing. − this has been a disastrous vote for the greens. we voted against the two separate votes (paragraphs 19 and 20), and both were adopted; we voted against at the final vote, but the text was adopted. our concerns are mainly about the speed with which some wish to pursue this, despite the numerous questions we still have.
in writing. − in favour. as my colleague bas eickhout said before, freezing or decreasing the eu’s budget post-2013 is not a credible approach if the eu and its member states are serious about achieving the policy priorities they have set themselves, notably in the europe 2020 strategy. coordinating eu funding and actions is clearly a better way for us to achieve our common goals, as opposed to individual actions. we welcome the fact that meps have clearly set out their stall to this end ahead of the forthcoming debate on the future financing of the eu. the eu needs a proper and predictable system for financing its own budget in order to end the perpetual, damaging squabbling over national contributions to the eu budget. introducing a true and meaningful ‘own-resources’ system for financing the eu budget is the only way to achieve this and we are happy that the ep has thrown its weight behind this long-standing green priority.
in writing. - although i would have liked a more ambitious outcome, the garriga polledo report on the financial perspective from 2014 onwards is a step forward, the result of a broad political commitment within the special committee, set up for the first time in parliament, before the european commission presents its proposal. the report recognises the need for more resources to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, develop european policies and meet the commitments arising from enlargement and the lisbon treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. from 2020, it proposes periods of 5 years (or 5+5), more in line with the mandate of the institutions. i think it is very positive for galicia that it is supporting activities related to the sea and the creation of a new category for regions between 75% and 90% of community income per capita. this is necessary to ensure that the flow of community funds is not interrupted and that it has a transition to improve its competitiveness and to move forward in convergence towards a sustainable development path.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, commissioner, honourable members, the treaty has not conferred any power on the council to deal with national constitutions of the member states. under article 4(1) and (2) of the treaty on the european union, the adoption of a constitution remains in the exclusive competence of the member state concerned. therefore, the council has not been in a position to discuss the newly adopted constitution of hungary.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, at president barroso’s request i am addressing the house here today on the subject of the hungarian constitution. at the outset, president barroso stressed on various occasions that the commission does not make political judgements on the fundamental constitutional and institutional choices of a member state. the adoption of a new constitution in a member state is a matter for its people, for its institutions in accordance with the applicable national law and, where relevant, union and international law. the commission may, however, assess the constitution – as it may any other legal act of a member state – from the perspective of its compliance with union law. it goes without saying that the constitution of every member state should reflect and comply with the european values of freedom, democracy, equality, rule of law, human dignity and respect of human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, without discrimination, as laid down in article 2 of the treaty. the new hungarian constitution will enter into force on 1 january 2012 and will require the adoption of implementing measures. therefore, at this stage, the commission can only make a preliminary analysis, as the precise view on the interaction of the constitution with union law and its legal effects can only be fully evaluated when taking into account the implementing legislative, administrative and judicial practice based on it. the commission is also following the work of the venice commission of the council of europe on this matter, and we are expecting a report on 17-18 june. i also know that thomas markert, the secretary of the venice commission, was in the committee on liberties, justice and home affairs on 25 may, and i read with great interest the remarks which he made. as i have already explained, all the matters discussed at that time are linked to national competence. we can become competent only when such matters are translated into legislation. i now want to listen to what you parliamentarians have to say in order to understand the position of the european parliament on this matter.
the european union is a union of values and a union of law. it is defined as an experience of supranational integration of member states, each of which is a constitutional state. but there is also a constitutional dimension to the european union, in that not only is the architecture of its institutions subject to law, but also guarantees are enshrined in law for the positions of individuals vis-à-vis public authorities in the european area, and an essential principle, that of democracy, which exalts the value of pluralism. this is probably why the hungarian constitution is being reviewed and discussed in the european parliament, and why it has been the subject of discussions in two committees of this parliament, namely the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) and the committee on civil liberties (libe). the main concern - i think i can summarise it - is that which underlies the impression that a political majority of circumstance, certainly very large - two thirds - but a political majority of circumstance in the hungarian parliament has succeeded in promoting a constitutional reform which restricts the realisation of political pluralism and, consequently, the possibility of alternating different political projects within the same framework of game rules. i therefore believe that it has raised concerns in terms of its conformity with the principles enshrined in articles 2 and 3 of the treaty on european union and with the political dimension of the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. no one has foreseen what the practical implementation of the hungarian constitution will be, which will of course be subject to the same checks and balances that constitutional dispensation, constitutional balance of the hungarian constitution itself and the subordination of hungary to supranational bodies such as the council of europe and the european union, which understand fundamental rights. but i cannot fail to refer - because i do not want to overlook it - to what i have just heard about the protection of minorities in the spanish constitution, which has been referred to as an example in relation to some other constitutions which have been mentioned by mr szájer. with all due respect, i must say that there is no discrimination in the spanish constitution on grounds of origin or birth. no one is predicting what the outcome of the implementation of the hungarian constitution will be, but i do think that it is an expression of a concern that is at the heart of this parliament - and this debate and those that have preceded it reflect this - that the hungarian constitution should also be subject to the rule of the accreditation of political pluralism and the alternation of different political projects within the same framework of rules of the game.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, the european arrest warrant has become one of the most successful instruments on mutual recognition adopted within the european union. therefore i am very thankful to you for having initiated this debate. the council has devoted a great deal of attention and energy to this issue, not least through a mutual peer evaluation of the practical application of this instrument which has been carried out in all member states over a period of three years. the advantages of the european arrest warrant by far outweigh any possible inconveniences. thanks to the eaw, the union has managed to reduce surrender times considerably, in many cases from one or two years to only one or two months. the previous extradition system was cumbersome and no longer fit for purpose in the modern world of open borders and serious and organised cross-border crimes. on the issue of proportionality, whilst there have been some cases of minor importance for which a european arrest warrant was issued, it is ultimately a matter for the issuing authority in each member state to decide for which offences it wants to launch the proceedings. this is a result of the fact that, unlike extradition, the european arrest warrant is a fully judicial system. a european arrest warrant is always based on a judicial decision in the issuing state and the decision on whether or not to issue an eaw is for the national judicial authority. if there is a proportionality problem it is not caused by the instrument or by the eaw framework decision, it is rather the result of the criminal justice policies in individual member states. the council has been quite clear that in cases where preventive detention is inappropriate the european arrest warrant should not be used. the council has also called on the instrument’s practitioners to consider and seek advice on the use of alternatives to the european arrest warrant. taking into account the overall efficiency of criminal proceedings, these alternatives could include using the less coercive instruments of mutual legal assistance where possible, using video-conferencing for suspects, convoking someone for appearance before a judge by means of a summons, using the schengen information system to establish the place of residence of a suspect, or the use of the framework decision on the mutual recognition of financial penalties. however, such assessments should always be made by the issuing authority. the european arrest warrants are issued in relation to prosecutions or final convictions in the issuing state. these judicial decisions are based on the material available to the judge or prosecutor in the issuing state. furthermore, we should not ignore the victims. in most cases the victims of the offence are in the issuing state, not in the executing state, so by delaying the trial and examination of the case the rights of victims are also being undermined. justice delayed is justice denied, not only for suspects but also for victims. it is also in the interest of the victims to have a speedy trial so that their rights are respected. the council intends to adopt a roadmap proposed by the hungarian presidency to strengthen these rights. the solution to the proportionality principle cannot therefore be that we change the fundamentals of the well-functioning european arrest warrant system, which has radically improved the prior extradition system. regarding the rights of the defence i would like first to remark that, unlike extradition, the european arrest warrant is a fully judicial system which in itself is already a major guarantee. a european arrest warrant is always based on a judicial decision in the issuing state and can be executed in the executing state only through a judicial decision. the person will always be able to fully exercise his defence rights in the issuing member state where the trial on the merits of the case takes place. this is fully in compliance with the case law of the european court of human rights in strasbourg. that does not imply that the person against whom a european arrest warrant has been issued is not, and should not, be able to exercise any rights in the executing state. directive 20140/64 of 20 october 2010 provides for the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings and also applies in the execution of the european arrest warrant. furthermore, we welcome the fact that a recent commission proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the right to information in criminal proceedings provides for the right to written information in european arrest warrant proceedings. concerns have been expressed that a negative decision on a european arrest warrant does not automatically lead to a deletion of the corresponding alert in the schengen information system. however, the cis alert is a means of transmission of the european arrest warrant. ultimately, it is only the issuing authority that has entered an alert that can withdraw it. in cases where a member state refuses, following judicial proceedings, to execute a european arrest warrant, the person in question will be released. if the refusal to execute the european arrest warrant is final it is clear that the person can no longer be arrested in that member state as a result of the instrument. however, any refusal to execute a european arrest warrant does not invalidate it. it remains a valid title for the arrest of the person concerned in the issuing member state and indeed in any other member state. this has nothing to do with the european arrest warrant system as such and is, for example, also the case under the extradition system. finally, regarding prison conditions, these may of course be open to improvement in some cases but this is not a topic which is specific to the implementation of the european arrest warrant. it is the responsibility of the authorities of individual member states to ensure that prison conditions are up to standard, regardless of whether persons have been surrendered from other member states or not.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, you might know that the commission adopted a report on the implementation of the arrest warrant on 11 april this year. this report focuses on the fundamental aspects of the operation of the arrest warrant, highlighting for the first time since it became operational in january 2004 not only its successes but also its shortcomings. a lot has already been said about the successes. let me just underline that between 2005 and 2009 almost 55 000 european arrest warrants were issued, about 12 000 were executed and during that period roughly 60% of the requested persons consented to their surrender, on average within 14 to 17 days. the average surrender time for those who did not consent was 48 days and this contrasts very favourable with the pre-european arrest warrant position of a one year average for the extradition of requested persons and has undoubtedly reinforced the free movement of persons. that is why, and i think that everybody in this house agrees, the arrest warrant is an important tool to catch criminals and to render our criminal justice systems more effective. it has been instrumental in smashing paedophile rings, and catching murderers and terrorists, and that is what it is there for. however, and this is a recent movement, we see that the number of arrest warrants issued has risen dramatically since 2007. in some cases it is being used in a less than proportionate manner to extradite suspects of often petty crime: stealing a bike or a piglet. this is unnecessary and may damage the legitimacy of this powerful eu mutual recognition tool. that is the reason why the commission asks for action. first, the commission calls on the eu member states to exercise a proportionality test when they call for an arrest warrant, and to fill the gaps where their legislation fails to fully comply with the framework decision setting up the arrest warrant. we also ask the member states to ensure that judicial practitioners, such as prosecutors, do not issue arrest warrants for minor offences. therefore, we will set out in a handbook on the arrest warrant the lines to take at that level. we will also come forward with proposals before the end of 2011 to step up training on the arrest warrant for police authorities, judicial authorities and legal practitioners in order to ensure consistency and effectiveness in the way it is applied and raise awareness of the new eu safeguards for procedural rights. speaking about safeguards for procedural rights, the report also reflects on the overarching importance of fundamental rights and mutual trust in the member states’ judicial systems. that is why the commission has started to set up procedural rights for persons who are taken into custody. firstly, minimum rules on the right to interpretation and translation, which were adopted already in 2010. secondly the right to information about rights – the letter of rights – which is going to reach an agreement very soon. not later than today the commission adopted the third proposal on procedural rights, the proposal to ensure access to a lawyer and the right to have a third person notified when a person is deprived of his or her liberty. it will include a provision for access to a lawyer both in the issuing and the executing states in european arrest warrant cases. all these procedural rights apply to the arrest warrant. these measures are designed to obviate the possibility that evidence is being obtained in breach of the fundamental rights of suspects. i would also like to answer the specific question which has been raised by the authors. the commission is not aware of any evidence that the request from sweden to the united kingdom for the surrender of mr assange to face allegations of sexual offences indicates that the european arrest warrant system is being used for other than its purpose. surrender under the council framework decision creating the european arrest warrant is an entirely judicial procedure, where the governments have absolutely no possibility of interfering in the process. in the specific case mentioned by parliament, the procedure has been handled by the uk and swedish judicial authorities without intervention of governments. as for the other question concerning possible extradition to the united states, i would like to underline that we are not aware of any request so far in respect of potential extradition to the united states. but if there were a request, this could only happen with the consent of the surrendering member state, the uk in that case. because pursuant to article 28 of the council framework decision, a person who has been surrendered pursuant to a european arrest warrant shall not be extradited to a third state without the consent of the competent authority of the member state which surrendered the person. this is just to underline the legal basis of the question but of course the whole question is a ‘what if’ question, because nothing concrete is on the table.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i consider the arrest warrant to be a fundamental instrument in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and other forms of crime. it is a credible instrument: the cornerstone of cooperation and the first concrete expression, in the field of criminal law, of the principle of mutual recognition. of course, it is a very useful instrument, but we must not forget that it also has its fragility. the weaknesses are clearly identified, as commissioner reding has also said, not only in the commission's report of april 2011, but also in the reports of 2005 and 2006. these weaknesses can and must of course be corrected, and they are based on two basic and elementary principles. the order has two components, the issuing component and the rejection or, where appropriate, delivery component. the figures show that it is a useful instrument: 54,000 and 12,000 executions. and what is there to correct? what needs to be corrected is greater and better procedural guarantees between issuing, rejecting and handing over. the question of proportion or disproportion in the use of the order is an essential question, it is a cornerstone question. that is why i am so pleased to hear commissioner reding say that the member states will be required to prove proportionality and also to take account of the non-use of the warrant for minor offences. and, by the way, mr president, one fact has crept into these questions: the fact that each order costs the treasury 25 000 euros. this has been something that an irish judge has said. i tell that judge i don't believe it, to show what the components are to arrive at such a calculation. i therefore believe, mr president, that the order should be maintained and reinforced by improving procedural safeguards. (blue card, rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure: the speaker agrees to answer the question)
no, mr president; i think that the european arrest warrant is a more useful and more flexible instrument for combating all the forms of crime to which we have referred. commissioner reding has already told you - and i stress this - that an extradition order can have a temporary effect of one year, whereas, on the contrary, a european arrest warrant must be substantiated within forty days. so i think this is a much more agile procedure and much more useful in fighting crime, in fighting crime and in fighting terrorism.
mr president, mrs reding, the violation of fundamental rights is actually one of the most important weaknesses, as we have been saying all afternoon. but even the safeguarding of these procedural rights, which we have already discussed and which we are going to start discussing as part of the procedural rights package, is not going to be possible. for example, some problems arising from the situation of prisons or periods of pre-trial detention will not be solved, because that is not in the package of procedural rights. that is clearly a matter for the member states. but as far as proportionality and minor offences are concerned, i would like to tell you, mrs reding, that of all the examples of crime i have heard during the afternoon - the theft of ties, the theft of the piglet, the theft of bicycles - none of them is covered by the arrest warrant. the 32 offences under consideration relate to offences related to organised crime, unless the piggybacking or tie-backing is carried out by an organised crime gang and is carried out with the use of weapons. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i would like to say that the commission should be involved in this. (the president cut the speaker off)
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, we have a case which can help us to resolve something which has indeed been recognised by the commission, which has also been raised by mr jahr and which we are going to include in the annual report which the committee on petitions is going to present at the 2010 deliberations. the following is the case - damüls in the alps and the pyrenees are good examples - from the time a complaint is lodged by a european citizen to the time it is resolved, the time that elapses is often not helpful in resolving the complaint, so that irreversible damage is not caused. i am referring to the ability of many states to circumvent the european directive which requires environmental impact assessment of public or private works in very sensitive areas of the european ecosystem, such as the alps, or perhaps the pyrenees, in spain. in this case, a work which, in order to circumvent the directive, is fractionated, divided, thus preventing such an environmental impact study. i believe, commissioners, that if you recognize that there is indeed a need for rigorous application of environmental impact studies, you must react more quickly to prevent the construction of projects from continuing despite reports indicating that such projects require a prior environmental impact study. that is why it is very important that we change the timing and that we, from the committee on petitions and the european commission, can work to make those times shorter and that the member states do not make fun of the need to implement that environmental impact study directive. it has been mocked in many states - this has already been mentioned here - not only in austria; in my country, spain, we are currently working on a project in the pyrenees, and we are also building a ski resort in the castanesa valley, and the spanish state is going to do the same. in this case, the competent aragonese administration will divide the work to prevent the environmental impact study. i think that both the european parliament and the european commission have to work towards more speed.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr reul, you are the chairman of the committee. my dear colleagues, let's all calm down a bit. commissioner, in the meeting we had on the eve of your meeting with ensreg, my group explained to you our position on this matter. now i must tell you that we are not entirely satisfied. why would you do that? because we believe that stress tests should have been mandatory, although we are glad to know that all 143 european nuclear power stations are going to be subjected to them, and we also support the commission in its efforts to convince third countries to also reassess their power stations. because we also believe that the stress tests, which will actually be carried out by the operators themselves, should be contrasted with a second opinion, to ensure greater objectivity. the formula of peer review by seven experts is a step, but our group's proposal was to create an independent control mechanism which would act from the outset, and not at the later stage of analysing the results. we also think that tests should be carried out on other installations, such as research reactors, and on other threats, such as those arising from a terrorist attack or structural weaknesses in a power station. we are aware of the competition issues that have been raised, but we think a better agreement could have been reached. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the risk assessment is carried out. for this reason, and in order to ensure maximum security, my group proposes that a european-level organisation, independent of the sector, be set up to take over the responsibilities for security and control. in conclusion, commissioner, i would like to say that what we are now looking for is consistency, so that reactors that fail to pass tests and cannot be remedied are shut down, and transparency, so that all citizens have full information about the process and the results of the tests.
madam president, commissioner, we must be careful how the debates are conducted, because when the commissioner is being interrupted all the time, there is a flood of questions from other members of the house and it is very difficult for the debate to be about the subject under discussion and in relation to what the commissioner has put forward, not to the wishes of other members. the first thing i want to say is that we must have a little humility and a little common sense on the part of some members of this house, because it seems that they were the only ones who had ever thought about nuclear safety and the only ones who cared about the future of their children and of humanity. the 58 reactors in france or the ones in the united kingdom or the ones in many other countries do not indicate that the french and others are any dumber, any less intelligent, or that they are not concerned about the future of their children, or that they have never thought about nuclear safety. ladies and gentlemen, nuclear safety is something that is constantly being worked on in all nuclear plants, in relation to all nuclear reactors. there are many professionals of the highest level, not people who are sitting here with the "bla, bla, bla, bla, bla" but people who are working day by day and from the beginning on these issues. that we now need a joint review of stress tests? i fully agree, and i have to say that some of those people who are now speaking on these issues refused to sign a joint resolution of this parliament which was supported by the majority of the groups in the house on this issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these will be national debates and they will have to be held there. so, speaking of the stress tests - because some people don't want to talk about it, they are just with the background of eliminating nuclear energy in one debate or another, or debating about it - i have to say that commissioner oettinger has done an extraordinary job in a very short time, agreeing and already developing, in practice, a set of measures, a set of tests that will give us the measure of the situation we are in. so, commissioner, congratulations; we can only thank you for the way you have acted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i support and welcome the behaviour of sudan and south sudan in the referendum which will make it possible to build a democratic state in peace with security and prosperity with respect for human, social and economic rights in both countries. we therefore call on the parties to engage in constructive dialogue to resolve the situation in abyei peacefully, as well as the outstanding issues to be negotiated, such as the distribution of oil revenues, the delimitation of borders, the sharing of debt. to this end, the eu must make available to both countries the necessary resources to support social services such as education, health, agriculture, food security, institutional capacity building and must maintain this humanitarian aid for both countries after 9 july, the date on which they will officially gain their independence.
in writing. − i am glad the ep welcomes the peaceful and credible conduct of both sudan and south sudan in the 2011 southern sudan referendum, the efforts by all parties to the cpa and the commitment they have demonstrated to it; views this as a crucial step in implementing the cpa and as a positive sign for the peaceful coexistence of both countries; reiterates its full respect for the outcome of the referendum as the expression of the democratic will of the people of south sudan; calls on both north and south sudan actively to pursue the promotion of democratic governance and the establishment of long-term peace, security and prosperity for both countries, with respect for human, social and economic rights; calls on the south sudan authorities to promote the development of south sudan as a modern, pluralistic, democratic state based on the rule of law and respecting human rights, in particular women’s and children’s rights, and the primacy of the right of citizens to choose their government through regular free elections, with protection of freedom of movement, freedom of association and freedom to express one’s political views enshrined in both constitution and law.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that the eu and russia should take advantage of the nizhni summit to strengthen strategic cooperation and reach a comprehensive agreement on cooperation on the economic, political and social system and include issues related to democracy, the rule of law, human and fundamental rights. it should serve to review energy security and policy, which should be implemented on the basis of interdependence, transparency and guarantees of supply, and to combat climate change and improve energy efficiency. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial'.
in writing. − the ep: regrets that, contrary to russia’s obligations as a member of the council of europe to uphold freedom of assembly, peaceful citizens’ gatherings continue to be banned and violently dispersed, including a gay pride march in moscow for the sixth consecutive year, disregarding a final ruling made in april 2011 by the european court of human rights; expects eu delegations and diplomats to actively implement the toolkit to promote and protect the enjoyment of all human rights by lgbt people in the future.
in writing. - i supported this initiative because the commission must ensure that member states comply with directive 2006/114 on misleading and comparative advertising which applies to business-to-business transactions. but it is insufficient or it is incorrectly applied by the member states, and the commission must therefore immediately review and improve the directives to avoid such practices.
in writing. − the ep: 1. regrets that directive 2006/114/ec(2) on misleading and comparative advertising, which applies to business-to-business transactions, appears to be either insufficient in providing an effective remedy or inadequately enforced by member states; 2. recalls that, although the commission has no power to enforce the directive directly against individuals or companies, it does have a duty to ensure that the directive is adequately implemented by member states; 3. calls on the commission to proactively verify member states’ transposition, implementation and national enforcement of directive 2006/114/ec and take corrective action where needed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the country is not so bad as it was in the past. this illegal regime is causing in a country with resources great humanitarian problems due to the lack of basic food, water, hygiene, health and education. the european union must continue to provide humanitarian aid to the population and help to reach an agreement between the parties to facilitate a neutral, consensual and inclusive transitional government, in order to return to constitutional order and be able to call for free and transparent democratic elections which will allow all political movements and leaders to participate freely and allow the malagasy people to decide their future.
mr president, i wish to stress the case of abd al-nashiri. he is not only emblematic because of guantánamo and the death penalty, but also because he is one of the only two named victims of secret detentions in europe. he has actually been granted victim status in the polish judicial investigation, together with abu zubaydah, and given some concrete hope that the accountability process can move forward in europe. i believe it is, therefore, very important that the final resolution includes a clear call for full effective investigation into the european union member states’ complicity and their renditions and secret detention programmes. as amnesty suggested, however, it is vital to link these with the tdip report and with the follow-up that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) has agreed to take up in a new own-initiative report. work in the european parliament on the accountability front is absolutely key to keep these issues on the eu agenda.
author. − mr president, the reason we, the greens, support this joint resolution is that we consider the fight against corruption a fundamental factor in the establishment and consolidation of the rule of law in ukraine, with a view precisely to deepening its relations with the european union and enhancing its integration into eu policies. we stress, therefore, that those efforts require fair, impartial and independent legal proceedings. that is why we note with concern the widespread opinion that the recent case brought against mrs tymoshenko and some members of the government are politically motivated, and warn against a possible use of penal law as a tool to achieve political ends. that is also why we call on the ukrainian authorities to ensure that judicial measures are not used selectively and that investigations, prosecutions and trials are held in maximum transparency. finally, that is also the reason why we call on the ukrainian authorities to avoid any perception of judicial measures being used selectively and insist that the maximum transparency of investigations, persecutions and trials be guaranteed; we also call on the commission to assist in the reform of the judiciary in ukraine by making use of eu capacity-building programmes and to consider creating a high-level eu advisory group for ukraine to assist the country in its efforts to align itself with eu legislation, including on the judiciary.
mr president, we in the european parliament fully understand that the debate on the european council on 23 and 24 june will continue to focus on the continuing economic crisis, the problems of the euro and greece. but i join those who have remembered that this does not exhaust the agenda. we also have an obligation to discuss the question of the backbone of the area of freedom, justice and security, and in particular schengen, which is certainly the main asset of the free movement of persons. and it cannot be that, in the face of the demand for democracy that has been unleashed in north africa, the answer is not very clear and very decisive. and in no case can it be to reform schengen. on the contrary, it should be to strengthen schengen. and there is precedent that tells us clearly that, in the face of unexpected and very abrupt migratory pressures, as was the case in the canary islands in spain between 2004 and 2006, the response can be not only more and better europe, but also a solidarity contribution to the demand for better democracy with respect to the neighbouring countries. we know that malta, italy and france have been under pressure, but we have to be clear that the council must do its part, completing the asylum package, completing the immigration package, completing the reform of the frontex regulation and, of course, updating the solidarity clause in article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which means updating directive 2001/55. and finally, i also express concern about the message that has been sent, which is to establish a response mechanism to allow the reestablishment of the union's internal borders in extraordinary circumstances. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, although the subject of today's debate is this important report on the reform of the common agricultural policy, i would like to comment on a side issue which concerns us and which could affect the viability of the proposals we are defending in the european parliament for this reform of the future of the cap. next week the european commission will present its proposal on the next financial perspective for the period after 2014, in which, if my information is confirmed, the community executive is fully prepared to propose a cut in the community agricultural budget. we must therefore take into account that the european commission will not take into account the opinion we will adopt tomorrow, in which we ask precisely that the expenditure on the common agricultural policy be maintained. i do not see how we can meet all the challenges set out in that document with a smaller budget; how we can make the aid from the common agricultural policy greener, a process which we do not want to involve any additional effort on the part of farmers and livestock producers; how we can achieve that. i do not see how, with a weakened cap, we can also deal with, for another example, price volatility and create, as we wish, a budget line to deal with the crises we know so well. the cap should not be measured in terms of spending alone, because, in addition to the goods and services it provides us with, i think it should be made clear - today more than ever - that one euro of investment in agriculture generates ten euros of wealth in the agri-food sector. and this should be taken very seriously when the next budgetary framework is being drawn up. all this without losing sight of the fact that negotiations with third countries and the world trade organisation are seriously threatening the continuation of agricultural and livestock production in the european union.
madam president, this afternoon's debate makes clear the support and commitment of this house to a strong, community-wide cap that addresses the challenges of food security, environmental sustainability and rural employment. we cannot allow - and i hope this house will do so - any cuts in the current cap budget. we need sufficient financial resources to meet these challenges. we must be able to guarantee farmers' incomes and to put in place market instruments which make it impossible and prevent the situation of price volatility which is taking place at the moment. but i do not want to forget what has happened in the last few weeks with regard to the fruit and vegetables sector, which has shown the need for the new cap to have crisis response instruments for all sectors that are effective, that are agile and that respond to the needs of the sector.
madam president, the most important message this parliament is sending today is that it wants a fair cap, which means a cap that guarantees a sufficient level of income for all producers, whatever their specific activity and wherever they are. and this requires an ambitious policy of direct aid, of market management, updating intervention prices, and also of rural development, adapting the cap to the new reality. yes, by also adapting the new cap to the 2020 strategy, but without a euro less, because there are no surplus resources for all the environmental, social and health challenges we have set ourselves. i am particularly pleased that the commissioner has announced that he will also explore all the possibilities for young people to be involved in agricultural activities in the first pillar, because sometimes we rightly focus on the better conditions than they are today, but we neglect in the public debate what we should do to bring new workers into agriculture who will also improve and guarantee our production, because it is proved that it is the countries which have given the most support to young farmers which are today farthest away from the risk of abandonment of land. the european union must not allow itself to be left to the arbitrariness of national policy.
mr president, we want to create an area of economic governance based on the principles of federalism, adapted to the construction of europe. we can't keep our eyes closed. it is incoherent to have a single currency and at the same time to lack the fiscal and financial instruments that this currency requires. we need, therefore, in particular: the issuing of european debt, a firm 'no' to competition between the issuing of debt by the states, the creation of a genuine european public treasury and the harmonization of tax policies which guarantee equality for citizens, combat tax fraud and help to define a progressive european social policy based on effective public services. these ideas are, you might say, elementary. but you have to say them over and over again because no one listens. and it is precisely because we do not listen that we are living in the dark times of which the poet bertolt brecht spoke.
mr president, when i entered this parliament twenty years ago, this debate would not have taken place, because this parliament was then a consultative parliament and the battle of many of us in these twenty years has been to make it what it is today, a co-legislating parliament. but when you collect it, you have to be responsible. and here we have to do an exercise in responsibility. some parts of this house have adopted that old slogan of may '68 that the realistic thing is to ask for the impossible. of course, when you ask for the impossible, in the end it is impossible to reach agreements. in the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) we have not negotiated with one group or another, we have negotiated with everyone. but we have reached agreements with those who were willing to reach agreements. and i think, mr president, that if you look objectively at the commission proposal, the council's position and what is now on the table - which we are going to vote on tomorrow - it is undeniable that there is a lot of progress. and that is actually the controversy or the dilemma that we have to solve tomorrow. miguel de cervantes, at the end of his fruitful existence, said that there were times in life when you had to be road or inn. to be an innkeeper, for cervantes, was to sit still, complain that you were not taken care of and stand still. to be on the road means to go forward, to be on the road means to overcome obstacles, to know that not everything is achieved, that the road is probably not the one we would like to travel, but to travel. and that is what i believe this parliament must do tomorrow: move around, resolve with the council the difficulties we still have, but look ahead at a time when the crisis is hitting all europeans. it's not responsible at this point to say "i don't like this and i break the deck". the responsible thing is to circulate. and so, mr president, i think that in the vote tomorrow we will agree on a new meeting with the council for july. because in the end, as a poet also said: 'mr sosa wagner quoted a german poet, i will quote a french poet, paul valery' of poems, they never end, they are only abandoned. we are going to leave the final result to july, and i hope that the hungarian presidency, which has played such a good role, will also be able to find an agreement satisfactory to all. thank you very much, mr. president. and i remember this is the first time in 20 years that the clock has been wrong in my favor and given me more time.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for the great job they have done, especially my colleagues and friends sylvie goulard and carl haglund. our vote on the economic governance package could be one of those historical turning points for this parliament. not only through its direct consequences, but also by the moral stand that we show our citizens. it is time for politics and governments to take a more robust stand on what is wrong and what is right in the values that we want to defend, including in the economic field. do we want governments that lie about their budgets or their deficits? we do not, because even though you can deny reality for a while, it always strikes back in the end. moreover, do we want governments that comply with the stability and growth pact? i think we do. thus, managing sanctions is necessary. we know that if member states have to sanction each other, nothing will happen. that is why i fully support the reversed qualified majority, also in the name of my party, the catalan liberal coalition, which is now running the government of catalonia and also the government of the city of barcelona. automaticity is much needed if we want to be sure that red lines are not freely trespassed. furthermore, there is the call for the commission to make a proposal on euro securities. i would like to publicly support this as a proposal that takes into account the feature of fiscal discipline.
we continue the debate on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances, the excessive deficit procedure, the requirements for member states' budgetary frameworks, budgetary surveillance in the euro area, the monitoring of budgetary positions and the monitoring and coordination of economic policies, and the implementing measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the people want a strong and effective european union. the slow pace, the inadequacy and the purely intergovernmental approach are aggravating the impact of the crisis and undermining the credibility of the european project. we are not facing purely national problems or a simple economic crisis: we are facing a political crisis which requires a rapid, comprehensive and european response. the economic and monetary union must be strengthened as an economic union, but also as a union. the proposal on economic governance which is being tabled today needs to be improved substantially to achieve this. we are in favour of creating national budgetary frameworks that ensure transparency, economic coordination and verification of compliance with european commitments. we believe that it is necessary to correct macroeconomic imbalances and move towards convergence, and we note that the ferreira report has made substantial progress in this direction. but the proposals for reform of the stability and growth pact are incomplete: they confuse stability with adjustment, they entrust growth policies to the market and to the national level. the european commitment to investment and employment cannot be circumvented. we will not be complicit in this attempt to turn europe's back on its citizens and its own interests; we will not resign ourselves to watching in silence as the problems become more acute; and we will not accept that it is played with a double standard. unanimity to provide resources and qualified majorities to prevent sanctions. let us bet on europe and let us do it quickly. the european parliament must work to achieve the europeanist and ambitious response that our citizens deserve. you have to walk, but not backwards like the crab. europe cannot hide when it is needed most.
mr president, it is obvious that we are in a serious situation and that this calls for the responsibility of all. everyone, including the council. the difference between us and the council today is the issue of the reverse qualified majority. we all know that the stability pact has not worked because the member states have decided not to punish each other when they violate budgetary discipline. perhaps because you have read in the gospel that "he who is without sin let him cast the first stone". what this parliament wants - and what separates it from the council - is to end this happy camaraderie between governments and replace a partial arbiter with an impartial arbiter. the package is good and deserves to be voted on. nobody thinks, when they've been poorer, that what they should do is spend more. and what we're doing is restoring budgetary discipline. but just because it's good doesn't mean it's enough. the hearings that have taken place have shown several things. we all knew that monetary union was not an optimal currency area. all believed that the current institutional architecture - centralised monetary policy, stability pact, coordination of other economic policies - would eliminate or reduce differences between member states. it didn't happen that way. the differences have increased in good times, and in bad times they have destroyed the pillars on which monetary union was based: the principle of no bail-out, the principle of no default and, if god does not fix it, the principle of no exit. and now we have what lenin called "what to do". and the only solution is to move forward on political union. i welcome the issue of eurobonds. it is a good step in this direction, but more needs to be done. if the treaty must be reformed by convening a convention to make political union, then so be it. because there is a greek proverb that says that "the law is made for man and not man for the law". it is not a question of continuing to hold trilogues until three o'clock in the morning or of bringing the ministers together at six o'clock in the morning. let us now think about what we can do to remedy this situation. but the first step is to vote this package, which is a good step in the right direction. the other is a futile effort and ortega y gasset said that futile effort leads to melancholy and in politics to opposition.
it leads to melancholy and to talking longer than you are allowed, mr garcia-margallo and ivory, by the benevolence of the president.
madam president, last week in the catalan parliament some meps representing the main political parties of catalonia made a common stand in defence of our language, catalan, in the eu and in its institutions. we call again for catalan to be recognised as an official language in the european parliament, just as many other catalan meps have been doing over the last 25 years. now there is a new opportunity for the catalan language, which has been prohibited for centuries in the spanish state. in a few months croatia will enter the union. for croatian to be an official language, the treaty has to be modified. when that time comes, we will again ask the spanish government to allow official status for catalan in the eu. the spanish government should bring the catalan language to the eu just as the irish government did with the gaelic language some years ago. we ask for the support of the european parliament and the commission to achieve recognition of catalan as an official language.
madam president, i would like to express my support for the package of measures envisaged to strengthen the economic governance of the union, as well as for those measures aimed at clarifying and speeding up the procedure for sanctioning states with excessive deficits. the union should be aware, however, that there are states which are trying to meet the budgetary requirements which europe imposes on them at the cost of unbalancing the accounts of sub-national governments. the spanish state is a paradigm case in this respect, as it seeks to meet the requirements by transferring its deficit to the autonomous administrations and municipalities. these practices must be condemned because they do not correspond to the spirit of the union's stability and growth pact and, above all, because they greatly impair the economic resilience of economically powerful nations such as catalonia.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mrs francesca balzani, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the mandate for the tripartite dialogue on the draft budget for 2012 (2011/2019 ((bud)) (a7-0230/2011).
member of the commission. − mr president, i am here to listen to your views on the draft budget presented by the commission and on the mandate for the trilogue. important work lies ahead of us and we will soon have the opportunity at the forthcoming trilogue to discuss the points of interest to parliament. but it is clear, and this was in the presentation by the rapporteur, that under the present unusual circumstances drafting and finding compromises on the 2012 budget cannot be ‘business as usual’. therefore, a balance between consolidation of public finances and investment conducive to growth and jobs is a must and i think this is visible in our draft. even in a time of crisis we need investment to reinforce the very fragile recovery of the european economy. so here is a part of our answer in the 2012 budget. we have also clearly upgraded the priorities relating to the europe 2020 strategy. in our estimates this represents eur 62.6 billion, which is equal to 43.5% of the total draft budget. also upgraded is the lisbon-treaty-related expenditure, which is increased by 4%. this is the first part of the answer. the second part of the answer is, of course, a rigorous approach to administration, zero growth of the commission, and what we call the negative priorities for the very tough assessment of programmes – to see whether they are working or not – and, on the basis of performance, in some areas budgeting below the pre-existing financial programming for 2012. as a result the 2012 draft budget is almost eur 9 billion below the ceiling of the financial perspective set for 2012. it is not enough to draft a budget. there is our common obligation to respond to developments globally. this is especially the case of the southern mediterranean. therefore we have agreed amending letter no 1 to the 2012 budget, which was agreed a week ago, in order to upgrade the budgetary response to our neighbourhood and especially to the southern mediterranean for 2011, 2012 and 2013 by more than eur 1.3 billion. for next year that means mobilising additionally almost eur 500 million for the southern mediterranean and generally for that neighbourhood, consuming the margin of heading 4, but that is also at the expense of flexibility instruments up to eur 150-153 million. the result is as it was presented. the payment should grow by 4.9% but this is not par plaisir; this is in order to pay the pending legal obligations, which are growing at the end of the financial perspective. this is, i have to repeat once more, exactly eur 8.8 billion less than was the ceiling for 2012. what is growing is research and development; what is growing is cohesion, which is now moving because eligible programmes have now finished and we have to pay the bills of the member states. but generally we are, even for cohesion, very much below what was the upgraded forecast of the member states for 2012. so to sum up, i do not expect any easy discussions with the council over the future. the experience of the 2011 procedure was very instructive. we need the support of parliament to shape a decent budget for the next year: consolidation on the one hand and contribution to growth and jobs on the other. i hope that this year the procedure will be smoother and less nervous than the procedure for the 2011 budget.
the committee on foreign affairs and security has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, the commission's approach that the 2012 budget should limit its increase to the strict minimum necessary to meet the european union's legal commitments means freezing the european union, and my group cannot agree. we believe in europe, we believe in its policies and in the need to finance them, because the european union, commissioner, is not an expense, it is an added value to national policies. as the rapporteur has said, we fully agree that the budget should be geared towards achieving the 2020 strategy, competitiveness and employment, but this major concern cannot make us lose sight of the chronic under-financing of the european union's external action. it is not compatible with the european parliament, the commission and the council's aspiration that the union should be a relevant global player with an increase of 2.9% which barely matches inflation. it is difficult to respond to the proposal that is made to us about our will and responsibility to promote peace, development, international stability and human rights in the world. i shall concentrate on the points of concern to the committee on foreign affairs. firstly, the reformulation of the neighbourhood policy and, in particular, its mediterranean dimension, must have a budgetary correlation, and, to begin with, the commission's proposal on palestine, the middle east peace process and unrwa is suffering from a budget cut of eur 100 million, commissioner. i think that peace in the middle east is a sensitive enough issue and the work of unrwa is important enough not to be subjected to the commission's game of proposing decreasing figures year after year and then raising them in the negotiation of the budgetary procedure. and the mediterranean is extremely important, commissioner, but not to the detriment of other dimensions of the european union's external action. for example, latin america, the historic sub-granting of latin america. the historic under-allocation is supplemented by the blocking of funds for countries which could benefit from the ici + and - i conclude, mr president - do not do so because of the lack of a solution to the problem of the legal basis of this instrument. enlargement and the stability instrument must also have the necessary funding and also the multilateral aspects, such as the european union's contribution to un women. and finally - second half, mr president - it is also about the possibility of being able to use the budget in a flexible way.
mr president, commissioner lewandowski is always right, and that is why our group supports him. this year the budgetary mandate is even more important than it can be in other years, since we are going to negotiate the next financial perspective in the course of the financial year 2012. in fact, the failure to fulfil the mandate for the tripartite dialogue last june led to very serious problems in the november conciliation. we therefore hope that the institutions will now have more capacity for consensus than they did last year. in addition, mrs balzani has drawn up a mandate which is very reasonable, since it includes all the conditions which are to be negotiated in the next financial perspective. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. all of that is going to be in this 2012 budget and in the next financial perspectives. that is why this mandate and this tripartite dialogue must be successful, because the outcome of the 2012 budgetary conciliation will largely determine the success of the interinstitutional negotiations on the next financial perspective. and we particularly support the european commission's request for a 4.9% increase in payment appropriations. and if you do not want to see it that way, look at the way this year's budget is being implemented and the enormous problems of finding enough payments, even to meet, for example, the solidarity instrument, which goes to some very needy regions of europe.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs balzani, the rapporteur, on her report. the budget is the basic, fundamental tool which supports all the policies of the european union: the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy, research policy, foreign policy. they would be meaningless if there was no budget to support those policies. and that is why today, in a time of crisis, we need, commissioner, a strong budget that responds to the needs that we face today. and that is why we are asking you to allocate resources to such fundamental programmes as employment programmes, training programmes for young people or that programme, overturned by the court of justice, of aid to the most needy. and we also ask the council to stop thinking like an accountant for once, to put on the hat of a politician for once and not to do the calculations looking for ways of cutting payments, because we may end up in the court of justice, since payments, as you have reminded us, mr lewandowski, are legal obligations arising from commitments made. and if not, then we can't serve you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the joint debate on the report by markus pieper, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the european commission's fifth cohesion report and the strategy for cohesion policy beyond 2013 (2011/2035 (ini)) (a7-0222/2011), the report by miroslav mikolášik, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the 2010 report on the implementation of the cohesion policy programmes for 2007-2013 (2010/2139 (ini)) (a7-0111/2011), the report by oldřichlas vák, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the european urban agenda and its future in cohesion policy (2010/2158 (ini)) (a7-0218/2011), the report by marie-schérèse sanchez-mid, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on objective 3: a future agenda for territorial cooperation and cross-border cooperation, on the structural funds and on the future of the european union (2010/2151 (ini)) (a7-0110/2011), on the report by the committee on regional development, among others, on the structural funds and the future of the european union (2010/2151-0110/2011), on the report by the committee on structural funds and the future of the european union (2010/215/01-01-01-01/2011) (ini)) (a7-024) and the report by the committee on the commission on the future of the structural funds, among others),
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear visitors to the european parliament! cohesion policy is a central pillar of the european integration project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in fact, in recent decades, the wealth gap between europe's regions has been reduced to a minimum. this will be reflected in the changes in the categorisation in the next period. in addition - and i must stress this again and again - regional policy has also evolved to become the central and sustainable investment policy for all european regions. if we want to make europe 2020 a success, if we want to turn the strategy on paper into concrete activities, initiatives and projects, then it is precisely this modernised, evolved form of regional policy that must be used in all regions to achieve corresponding effects in our cities, communities, businesses, research centres and schools. i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the rapporteurs markus pieper, miroslav mikolášik, oldřich vlasák, marie-thérèse sanchez-schmid and georgios stavrakakis for the excellent reports they have produced, which help us in our work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i expect that many of these substantial and very constructive contributions will also be reflected in the formulation of future regional policy. i would like to thank you again for the fact that parliament and the commission are in agreement on the main elements and points of how we want to develop regional policy. the debate on the transition regions - and i say this quite frankly - has lost some of the commonalities, the common priorities and the very substantial proposals for changing the future direction of the policy, so as to make it even more successful, sustainable, visible and more comprehensible and tangible for the citizens. it is this common commitment to a strong link between regional policy and the eu 2020 strategy, it is this common commitment to the necessary conditionality to be defined jointly in order to help overcome difficulties in implementing policy where they exist. and it is this shared commitment to a strong results orientation of our policies that ultimately also determines what these policies, with a focused use of financial resources, could ultimately achieve in all individual regions at the end of the period and thus contribute to the central objectives of europe 2020. i would like to make a few brief remarks on each of the reports. first, the report by markus pieper. i would like to emphasize what he said: the willingness to reform, the agreement in many areas. it is very important that we have this commitment here, for example to innovation, sustainability, energy efficiency, the potential that smart green technologies have for the european economy, for job security, also in a global competition. there has been some discussion in this house and i thank the house for its strong support for the proposed creation of a so-called transitional region for the coming term of office. we have discussed this often enough, i do not need to go into more detail here. i would like to stress once again that we have always been concerned with making a proposal to help those areas of the regions which are no longer among the poorest but are still far from the average, to give appropriate support and guidance to this process of catching up. i understand the concerns and reservations that have been expressed here and there, and i am quite prepared, and even offensive, to think about what possibilities of ex ante evaluation there are already at the end of the next period, to determine the extent to which the objectives have been achieved in each region, to assess whether the failure to achieve the objectives is due to internal or external factors and what conclusions we will then draw from the allocation of funds in the next period. these are sensible and necessary developments to ensure political acceptance of this type of european policy in the future, as well as acceptance by the citizens. i thank mr mikolášik for the clear commitment to results in his report and the very clear indications regarding the value and future development of strategic reports, what impact these reports have and how they can be used. i am very grateful to mr vlasák, who has always worked very hard on behalf of the towns, and to the whole team. cities are a key element in many of the key european objectives, without neglecting the rural areas. i cannot get tired of saying that if you want to ensure energy efficiency, you have to start in the cities. if we want to reduce co2 emissions, we have to start in the cities. the fight against poverty is a fight against run-down neighbourhoods in all the major european cities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but there is - and i can already speak to mr stavrakakis - the need for improved cooperation with the other funds in this area, especially the one for rural development. it will also be necessary to present, for example, the voting on the research framework programme, particularly in the area of innovation, in a good, secure and transparent way. because in research, the central decision criterion is excellence. excellence is not a geographically determined concept. this is also reflected in the fact that over 30% of research funding goes to ten european regions where this concentration takes place. that's why it's important. we are already starting in the current period and will be stepping up this in the next, that we are also investing in research infrastructure on a global scale with structural fund funds, where the projects justify it, in order to gradually represent a broader base of research activities throughout europe. innovation is also in principle relevant to small and mediumsized enterprises, where innovation, for example in product development, also takes place in the areas of administration, service and marketing, so it is multi-layered. we need that broad base. it is europe's small and mediumsized enterprises that ultimately create or sustainably maintain jobs. i would also like to thank mrs sanchez-schmidt for her contributions. we have already had the opportunity to discuss territorial cooperation on several occasions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the new instruments, for example in the field of macro-regional strategies, show the potential of transregional cooperation. thank you again for your contributions. i look forward to the discussion. i can assure you that many of these considerations and ideas will feed into the proposal on the legal bases we need for the next funding period, which we will be presenting in september of this year. i would also like to thank you very much for your continued support for european regional policy and its development.
opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. - madam president, i would first like to point out the significant contribution that cohesion policy has made to economic growth and to the integration of the citizens and territories of the union. it was therefore essential that parliament should give its opinion on the policy to be followed from 2013 onwards, and it would be unfair not to mention the work done by markus pieper in his extensive report. within cohesion policy, the european social fund has been and will be a very important tool to help member states to adapt their policies to the 2020 strategy and in the fight against crises. the fund should concentrate its efforts on job creation, by promoting lifelong training, particularly by supporting low-skilled workers, those who are out of the labour market, as well as the most vulnerable groups, those who suffer discrimination and, of course, smes. it must also aim at social inclusion and poverty reduction. to achieve these aims, it is essential that the social fund, within the structural funds, has sufficient resources and that the administrative burden of procedures is made as flexible and as small as possible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the current economic and financial crisis highlights the need for regional policy as the best instrument for reducing the development gap between regions and states. at the same time, we can restore the positive image of europe, which people have only associated with tough austerity plans and social cuts. the future cohesion policy, the pillar of solidarity of the european project and of social justice, should take account of the following priorities: first, to strengthen social cohesion and integrate the challenges posed by the europe 2020 strategy; second, to take into account the needs and geographical characteristics of the regions, especially those of the most disadvantaged; third, to maintain the principle of gradualness in the collection of funds, so that the regions do not abandon the objective of convergence, avoiding abrupt changes in the collection of aid; and fourth, to promote a fair system. finally, ladies and gentlemen, the authorities are pursuing a harsh policy of budgetary adjustment. union support is therefore necessary. i hope the council will take note.
mr president, cohesion policy has undoubtedly contributed to increasing productivity in all regions of the european union and to eliminating regional disparities, and it has undoubtedly been fundamental for all citizens and is helping - and will help - to combat the economic and financial crisis in europe. that is why the fifth cohesion report is so timely. there are three key ideas. the first is the basic gross domestic product, supplemented by other indicators from the national and regional authorities. secondly, an intermediate category to be able to deal with all the regions which are not converging and have not yet become competitive, so that similar situations can be dealt with in a similar way and that there is no sudden change for these regions. and third idea, reinforce objective three. two requests: to remove the maximum distance of 150 kilometres so that many regions, such as the balearic islands, can have access to crossborder cooperation, and another idea: the report says that the working languages of the union are french, english and german. and that's not true. it is the 23 languages of this european union that make us rich and diverse.
madam president, the whole package, albeit timidly and with great gaps, is moving in the direction which i, as a europeanist and federalist, advocate. it also contains wise lessons for spain's political organization. that is why i voted in favour of four of the reports on economic governance. i voted against the ugly report because it advocates procyclical policies which, at best, would not help to get out of the crisis and, at worst, would only encourage stagnation and unemployment. i have also not voted for - i have voted against - the wortmann-kool report because it does not take into account the stability and growth pact, the employment strategy or the 2020 objectives of the european union, which are a hope for millions of europeans, especially young people.
madam president, allow me to make a few brief comments on what i have heard from those who have gone before me. it is not a question of saving the reputation of the founders of the union, but of building more europe and working towards european citizenship. i am glad that the commission has taken this step, and i am glad that it has taken this step, but i am also sorry that the adoption of several articles of the directive means that many spanish consumers and users will be deprived of certain rights which are already enshrined in spanish legislation. that is why the spanish socialists have voted against several articles today: article 9, concerning the maximum harmonisation of the information requirements for distance contracts; article 17 (2), the possibility of charging the consumer for the normal use of the goods during the withdrawal period; article 22 (2), the introduction of an additional deadline for the delivery of the goods when the trader fails to pay the delivery fee provided for in the contract.
madam president, i voted in favour of this initiative because europe needs a strong and unabashed common agricultural policy, focused on promoting profitable farms and ensuring food security and sufficiency and the quality of production. agriculture also needs support to innovate and focus this effort on more efficient use of energy, water and land. all this must be combined with other forms of management which allow for a fairer reward for the work of professionals in this sector, a group of people who need to progress and continue to be trained throughout their working life, and which must be facilitated by simpler procedures, less bureaucracy and more transparency in objectives and tools. the new cap must therefore strengthen its commitment to active farmers, their extra-productive contributions and balanced rural development. profitability also depends on aligning the policies of this sector with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the budgetary effort must therefore also be maintained.
in writing. - i have approved this initiative to help the 2834 people made redundant by the general motors company in belgium to re-enter the labour market because as a result of the global economic and financial crisis the company has not been able to expand its production plant in antwerp. i welcome the agreement you have reached with the social partners on the proposed package of measures.
in writing. − in favour. we request the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf; we appreciate in this sense the improved procedure put in place by the commission, following the parliament’s request for accelerating the release of grants, aimed at presenting to the budgetary authority the commission’s assessment on the eligibility of an egf application together with the proposal to mobilise the egf; we hope that further improvements in the procedure will be reached in the framework of the upcoming review of the egf. thus we recall the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have been made redundant as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis; we point out the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market; however, we call for an evaluation of the long-term integration of these workers into the labour market as a direct result of the egf-funded measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the proposed amendment to article 51 of the regulation, in addition to being an innovative form of collaboration between different committees, will improve the legibility of the provision and its application, clarify the conditions for its application and determine the regulatory content.
in writing. − in favour. during the previous parliamentary term, the conference of presidents set up a working party on parliamentary reform, tasked with reviewing the functioning of parliament and recommending possible improvements. in a chapter on cooperation between committees, the working party proposed not only that the position of an associated committee in the procedure with associated committees – rule 50 (formerly rule 47) of the rules of procedure – should be strengthened, but also that a new form of cooperation between committees, subsequently introduced by means of the new rule 51, should be developed. the reasoning behind the proposal was that, in certain specific cases, ‘where a legislative dossier does not fall clearly within the competence of one committee but is rather equally divided among two or more committees and is of major importance […] the solution to a conflict of competence should be based on equality and cooperation. the committees concerned should meet jointly so that arguments can be exchanged in advance […] and the majority and minority viewpoints can emerge more clearly. the members of the committees concerned should then vote jointly on the amendments tabled to the legislative proposal. the result would be the submission of a single, more balanced report […] to plenary’.
in writing. − in favour. in the plenary sitting of 6 april 2011, the president announced, in accordance with rule 6(2) of the european parliament’s rules of procedure, that he had received a letter from the national anti-corruption department (prosecutor’s office of the high court of cassation and justice of romania) on 5 april 2011 requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of adrian severin. the president referred the request to the committee responsible, pursuant to rule 6(2). on the basis of several considerations and pursuant to rule 6(2) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs, having examined the reasons for and against waiving the member’s immunity, recommends that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of adrian severin, while considering that, until a final sentence is passed, the member should be immune from any form of detention or remand or any other measure which prevents that member from performing the duties proper to the mandate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement because it will serve to spread sustainable fishing throughout the world by ensuring comprehensive control over the quantity of fish and the techniques of catching, as well as the conditions of fish taken from the sea and their food and commercial traceability. the €16.8 million to be given to the seychelles will also promote and modernise the economic activity linked to fishing in the archipelago, thereby promoting local development. the agreement will also enable the 60 european tuna vessels operating in the area, 48 search vessels and 12 longliners, to catch up to 56 000 tonnes a year. this agreement must also serve to banish the demagogic speeches that are heard in this house about the fishing of european vessels in third countries. our ships in the seychelles operate in a regulated, tightly controlled and entirely environmentally friendly manner. they don't skim resources and support local development. and it is these kinds of agreements that guarantee those principles. finally, the threat of piracy has led to a 25% drop in catches in this fishery in the last year and the necessary measures must be further strengthened to ensure that vessels can fish in good conditions.
in writing. − against. on the basis of the relevant council mandate, the commission negotiated on behalf of the european union with the republic of seychelles the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles. these negotiations concluded with the initialling of a new protocol on 3 june 2010, which was then amended by exchange of letters on 29 october 2010. the protocol covers a period of three years from the adoption of the council decision on the signing of the protocol and its provisional application, and the expiry of the current protocol on 17 january 2011. the new protocol has been applied provisionally since 17 january 2011 to ensure that eu vessels could continue fishing. our group believes, however, that these types of agreement are detrimental for stocks and for the building of a social structure in the third countries, which makes them too dependent on the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement because it fulfils the objective of maintaining the activities of the eu fishing fleet in cooperation with third countries in order to strengthen sustainable fishing with respect for the environment, social and economic aspects. the commission will be able to provide the necessary financial support to the fisheries sector. the agreement will allow 28 purse seiners and 12 surface longliners to fish for tuna. it should be noted that not all the fishing opportunities under the previous agreement were used and that this new protocol reduces fishing opportunities for the long-line fisheries sector.
in writing. − the negotiation and signing of fisheries agreements is in line with the eu’s general objective of maintaining and preserving the activities of its fishing fleet, including the open-sea fleet, as also with the development of relations with third countries in a spirit of partnership and cooperation, with a view to reinforcing sustainable fishing outside union waters while taking due account of environmental, social and economic factors. in this context, on 23 july 2007 the european council adopted regulation (ec) no 894/2007 on the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement between the democratic republic of são tomé and principe and the european community. this agreement, which is applicable for periods of four years, tacitly renewable unless either party rescinds it, entailed the repeal and replacement of the first agreement between the ec and são tomé and principe, concluded in 1984. however, our group has been traditionally opposed to that procedure for both the form and the content.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the agreement aims to ensure that trade is conducted with a high level of customs security and includes a set of rules which are moving closer to the eu acquis.
in writing. − in favour. the council decision referral to the european parliament for the consent procedure constitutes the legal instrument for the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the principality of andorra extending to customs security measures the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european economic community and the principality of andorra concluded on 28 june 1990. the agreement was the basis for the customs union between both parties. the present arrangement concerning customs security measures will be added to the 1990 agreement under the form of a new title iia and, unlike the customs union, will apply to agricultural products (article 12b(2) of the protocol).
in writing. - i voted in favour because this agreement will benefit european and canadian companies, airlines and passengers. because millions will be saved by shorter, simpler, cheaper product approval procedures and mutual acceptance of certification results. because it provides for the possibility of both using approved repair and maintenance equipment. all this will make the market more competitive and more secure.
in writing. − in favour. this recommendation deals with the safety agreement that was signed on behalf of the (then) european community on 6 may 2009. the eu-canada air transport agreement, signed on 17-18 december 2009 and which will finally establish a full open aviation area between the eu and canada, will be the subject of a separate recommendation. only six member states currently have bilateral agreements with canada covering product certification. these will lapse when the eu-canada civil aviation safety agreement (‘the agreement’) enters into force. as the removal of technical barriers to trade in goods comes within the exclusive competence of the union, the agreement can be concluded by means of a council decision. unlike the air transport agreement, it is not subject to provisional application and does not require ratification by the member states. it is appropriate that canada was seen as a priority for an air safety agreement to complement the air transport agreement as europe and canada each have aircraft, engine and avionics manufacturers that are world leaders. the combined exports of civil aviation technology exceed eur 50 billion while european and canadian overall trade in aircraft, spacecraft and parts was worth more than eur 49 billion in 2008.
in writing. − in favour. the draft report was rather weak, but could have been considerably improved by 22 compromise amendments and a number of stronger paragraphs from different opinions, e.g. in the field of social cohesion (paragraphs 7 and 19), gender mainstreaming (paragraph 9), decarbonisation of transport (paragraph 11), energy efficiency (paragraph 14) and environment and climate protection (paragraph 15). it was possible to incorporate our formulation about the synergies among funds (‘each fund needs its own rules’, paragraph 28) as well as our call for increasing cross-financing (paragraph 29) and strengthening partnership (paragraph 33) and transparency (paragraph 3). we also have good wording on realigning programmes to sustainable development (paragraph 35). however, we could not achieve a more green focus for measures to exit from the crisis (paragraph 27).
in writing. − in favour. this is another own-initiative report on urban development in europe which rather repeats what has already been stated in the previous reports on that issue. the only relevant question at this particular moment is the question about the role of urban dimension in the future architecture of cohesion policy post-2013 – however, the report remains open on this point and does not make a clear recommendation. the report covers several aspects of the urban dimension of cohesion policy such as multi-level governance, the partnership principle, sub-delegation of responsibilities, integrated strategic planning and comprehensive financial planning. besides some ibm-friendly text on ‘smarter urban development’ (paragraph 8), we were mainly disappointed that the s&d shadow managed to weaken good wording on the partnership principle. the draft report could have been improved by a number of compromise amendments, and our amendments were quite well integrated. we have good wording on the costs of economic growth (paragraph 4), climate protection (paragraph 9), internal cohesion (paragraph 10), an integrated and bottom-up approach (paragraphs 21 and 23), deprived neighbourhoods (paragraph 25) and cross-financing (paragraph 28).
in writing. − in favour. the draft text of the rapporteur broadly met the position of our group on objective 3. amendments by our group that were adopted by the committee on regional development concern: a call for flexibility in the application of the geographical limit of 150 km set for cross-border cooperation programmes for coastal and maritime regions; the recommendation that a first assessment of the egtcs in place be carried out, with a view to learning from these initial experiences; close cultural and linguistic links between border regions in different member states must be exploited in order to boost cross-border cooperation.
in writing. − in favour. this text basically calls for a single strategic framework to be proposed, in time for the next financing period after 2013, to ensure a common approach and to capitalise on synergies between all actions which serve on the ground to further cohesion policy objectives as defined by the treaties and are funded by the erdf, the cohesion fund, the esf, the eafrd and the eff. furthermore, it points out that the goal of cohesion policy should be sustainable, smart and inclusive economic growth evenly spread both territorially and socially, reduction of development disparities between regions, job creation, improved quality of life, worker training for new jobs, including in the field of sustainable economy, social and territorial cohesion and the implementation of the european social model, which constitutes a factor of cohesion and competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. - i'm with you. this report aims to include mechanisms for prevention and correction when member states are faced with fiscal imbalances. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i voted in favour of this report mainly because it introduces economic imbalances into the stability and growth pact, the eu 2020 strategy and the european semester, i.e. the real economy is integrated into the procedures for economic control and coordination. in addition, a number of indicators are included to determine economic imbalances and, consequently, recommendations, such as investment in r & d, energy sector.
in writing. - i'm against it. the reason is that it introduces a strongly pro-cyclical measure to address the excessive deficit. in particular, measure 1/20, which implies a reduction of 5% of the annual public debt in three consecutive years if it exceeds 60% of gdp, provided that the deficit is less than 3% of gdp. this measure is based on the assumption that economic growth depends exclusively on reducing public spending, i.e. it implies the direct application of particularly rigorous austerity plans and in any case, to deal with the public debt.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves improving the harmonization of macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts; the introduction of numerical fiscal and fiscal consolidation rules; the introduction of a framework on the main categories of medium-term expenditure; greater requirements on accounting and statistics; and finally greater transparency in the general requirements on finance and the general objective of the budget.
in writing. - i'm against it. the greens-efa group tried to introduce key amendments demanding the implementation of eurobonds, fiscal convergence and the application of a ceiling on financial penalties and other incentives. these amendments were not adopted, and the report ended up being a mere list of sanctions on those countries which do not respect their budget. this directive is intrinsically linked to the wortmann-cool report already explained. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against because this report seeks to solve the public deficit exclusively by means of adjustments in public spending. in particular, a medium-term gdp growth target is introduced, the implementation of which will be strictly monitored by the commission. in fact, extra powers are given to the european commission, which acquires the ability to automatically sanction eurozone members unless the council decides otherwise by a qualified majority. this report implies that fiscal consolidation is prioritised over the eu's long-term sustainability, job creation, anti-poverty and social cohesion objectives. he's the hard-core of the pack. it intends to place full emphasis on the application of adjustment and austerity mechanisms, excluding the use of counter-cyclical mechanisms. in addition, it lacks incentives to meet medium-term growth targets and focuses exclusively on the sanctions system.
in writing. - abstentions from voting. the report also calls for the introduction of a european system of taxation of capital, which would be compatible with the internal market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. on the positive side, however, it also includes the requirement that a 'reverse voting mechanism' clause be introduced, which implies that sanctions must be adopted unless the council (only the euro-area members) votes against them by a qualified majority. when we call for more economic governance and more coordination, they must of course be accompanied by certain sanctions, but it is not clear what the real economic impact would be on the citizens of the member states of the application of such a rigid sanction, and for this reason, in the absence of any reports to justify it, i shall abstain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this initiative because it aims to achieve better protection of consumers' rights and sets the desirable level of harmonisation at community level in distance and off-premises contracts and the right of withdrawal.
in writing. − the new rules approved by the ep today will give a real boost to consumers’ rights across europe. crucially, consumers will now have the right to withdraw from a purchase up to 14 days after. the new rules also give much greater protection for online shopping, with consumers covered by the same rules across europe. this will give greater peace of mind to online shoppers. the greens welcome the greater protection for consumers buying digital content. from now on, consumers will have to be properly informed when they purchase digital content online and will have a right of withdrawal under certain conditions. the new rules will also bring real improvements for passengers buying transport tickets online. it should end intransparent charging practices and ensure that companies can no longer surcharge consumers when using credit cards.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendment of directive 2000/25/ec. it provides for a gradual and phased reduction in the emission of polluting gases. the time needed for the technological development necessary for the implementation of phase iii, which provides for more drastic emission reductions and therefore major engine modifications, has not yet been possible, and the economic crisis has affected the manufacture of tractors. it is therefore necessary to give the necessary time and to adopt measures enabling manufacturers to sell tractors, to raise funds for research and to encourage farmers to replace their tractors with less polluting ones, always with the aim of complying with european environmental legislation.
in writing. − against. although the agreement is slightly better than the original commission proposal, the compromise still waters down existing legislation. the greens/efa voted against the committee report, did not support first reading agreement negotiations and consequently have not co-signed the agreement submitted to plenary. using the economic crisis as an excuse to weaken existing limit values (when they have already entered into force) sets an unfortunate precedent for other eu environmental legislation, rewarding non-compliance and punishing those companies that have made the necessary investments to comply with the legislation in time. while the impact of this particular proposal on eu air quality is small, the issue of principle is important.
in writing. − abstain. while the outcome of today’s vote is certainly a lot better than was expected, the proposed rules remain far too weak and fall far short of addressing the very real concerns with nuclear waste. these rules aim to create a perception that the problems of nuclear waste are solved, but nothing could be further from the truth. significantly, the rules do not apply to nuclear waste from military use, waste from uranium mining or spent fuel that is to be sent for reprocessing. it is a huge source of relief that meps rejected a proposal to export nuclear waste to third countries, however. it is outrageous to suggest that, because we cannot solve the problem of nuclear waste ourselves, it is ok to dump our nuclear waste in other countries. hopefully this vote will convince those governments that are pushing export as a solution to drop this approach. importantly, a green amendment calling for the storage of nuclear waste in seismic areas to be banned was passed. the ongoing disaster in fukushima should be a wake-up call on the huge risks involved with storing nuclear waste and we welcome that meps have heeded this call.
in writing. − against. even though the report is largely positive, we have a strong problem with the iter parts.
in writing. − i am voting against amendment 11 concerning the withholding of european funds for regions that use the ‘ley de costas’ in a retroactive way without compensation for the citizens affected. i completely disagree with the current state of affairs regarding ‘ley de costas’, but i also think that, specially in this moment of economic crisis, it is not responsible to take such a strong stand, as hundreds of thousands of citizens would be affected if funds were withheld. the situation of the citizens affected by ‘ley de costas’ has to be directly tackled, and i call on the commission to put all possible pressure on the spanish government to achieve a positive outcome for the citizens affected, in order to protect their property rights.
in writing. in favour. as my colleague mr bové has said, by taking this decision parliament is giving commissioner ciolos a vote of confidence. its proposals must now be translated into concrete legislative measures to be proposed in october 2011. the difficulties will be real when it comes to reconciling measures to promote employment, sustainability across all territories, environmental protection and climate change with the old talk of competition, competitiveness and liberalism. the risk of wide variation is very real. after this historic vote by the european parliament, europe is committed to turning the page on agricultural productivity. it will still be necessary for the states to assume their collective responsibility and for the commission to translate this new approach into legislation. after the failures of the reforms of 1992, 1999 and 2003, a new capitulation to the interests of the lobbies would be the end of the hopes of millions of farmers and 500 million european citizens.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of amendment 10, not because i do not want to end the system that allows large agro-holdings to receive millions of euros of public money; i do want to introduce an upper ceiling for direct payments. the problem i see here, as i do want to tackle the real problem, is that the large holdings that receive these big amounts of money can easily split up only for accountancy purposes and then nothing will be changed. the public money will be in the same current account instead of helping our small and medium producers who are the ones that really do need this payment.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, i support the rigorous work of mr coelho and congratulate him on his negotiating skills, in parliament and at first reading. as regards the need to create a new agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems, it should be recalled that the commission itself has stated that it cannot assume the responsibility of managing large databases and that the creation of a purely executive agency would in no way encourage parliamentary control. and that is because it would be embedded in the structure of the european commission. but given the important work entrusted to the new agency and the need for this work to be subject to parliament's scrutiny, the new body should take the form of a european agency with its own legal personality. the objectives should be clearly defined, namely the operational management of sis ii, the visa information system (vis) and eurodac, and may also be responsible for the preparation, development and operational management of other large-scale information systems. but it must be borne in mind that this will always have to be done with the appropriate legal instruments. the agency shall not, under any circumstances, take decisions of a political nature, such as the creation of new information systems or the interoperability between different systems. the important role of the agency requires a strengthened administrative structure to ensure data integrity and protection, which will require the inclusion of the security officer and an independent data protection authority, thus covering the legal requirements under article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights. and, mr coelho, in conclusion, i very much agree with your three initial points and with the seven of parliament, for the fact that we are particularly committed to the community solution and for the fact that we are firmly committed to the schengen area not being restricted.
mr president, commissioner, as you will have seen in the course of this afternoon's debate, this subject is far from mature, because in all the negotiations that the commission is conducting with the various countries, there is not, from the point of view of this member - and we have also felt this in parliament - much transparency and we do not know exactly many issues that are outstanding and are confusing. and it is a very important agreement, because the common standards that will be dealt with in the agreement with the united states will later serve as a reference for other agreements, and above all for the european pnr, for which i will be an alternative rapporteur. i think it is important that there should be maximum transparency, that we should know exactly, for example, when the 'pull' system will be used, as mentioned here. what exactly are the profiles going to be? it is not possible for a person to be prevented from travelling and monitored because his surname matches that of a citizen of the same country who is being pursued by a drug trafficker. there's been a lot of mistakes. the more guarantees and safeguards we put in place on such an important issue, the better, because this parliament, after the lisbon treaty, will have the responsibility to vote on it and therefore the matter has to be mature and it is not yet.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will comment on a few specific questions. the multilateral agreement that was announced in the communication on external pnr – where we also outlined a few guiding principles – will be based on the australian system. on the legal basis, the parliament’s legal service said in 2007 that the correct legal basis was police cooperation. with regard to the costs of the eu pnr, an impact assessment and an independent study have been conducted on costs. they are on our website and members are welcome to look at them. let us be very clear about what we discussed today. today we have three agreements with australia, canada and the us. we have decided jointly to renegotiate them. what we have achieved so far is a huge improvement, but there are no texts before you today to vote upon because negotiations are still ongoing. i am here today to answer a few questions and i hope i can provide some clarifications. i am willing to hold further discussions, but we already have agreements and we are trying to make improvements to them. so far we have improved them immensely in terms of definition, clarity, data protection and legal clarity. there will be developments and processes will be defined, but let me remind you that a country has the sovereign right to decide who can land on its territory and to impose certain conditions. we cannot change that. i cannot discuss ongoing negotiations; i cannot go into details. i cannot comment on leaked documents. i have tried to provide as much information as possible to the coordinators, the rapporteur and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i am willing to continue to do so and to discuss all texts we draw up as the process continues. i am quite positive that we will reach an agreement that considers both the necessity to protect our citizens against terrorism and organised crime and that also includes robust provisions on data protection. but today we were here to answer questions on certain issues. i have done my best to do that. i am sorry if you do not like the answers but there is nothing to vote on today. hopefully there will be before too long and then we will most likely have the chance to discuss it. in the meantime the commission is available to provide information. mr priebe will come to the committee tomorrow to give further information on the necessity and proportionality of pnr and provide some statistics. we are willing to come and see members at any time to inform them and discuss specific details.
mr president, in the european union there are 30 million people who suffer from malnutrition and another 79 million who live below the poverty line. most of them depend on food aid, especially from food banks. 40% of the funds needed to provide these meals come from the union's contributions, through the european plan of aid to the most deprived. the scheme was developed, to date, under the provisions of commission regulation (ec) no 983/2008 establishing aid for the purchase of cereals, milk powder and rice. in april the regulation was partially repealed by the court of first instance of the european communities, reducing the food aid budget from eur 500 million to eur 133 million. the construction of the european union has historically been inspired by the principle of solidarity. that is why, mr president, we are now calling more than ever for the new polish presidency and the european parliament to commit themselves to helping the most deprived and to restoring the budgetary appropriations that are now so limited.
mr president, in defence of fundamental rights, i ask the responsible institutions to review the designation of san sebastian as european capital of culture, because i believe that it has been chosen on the basis of a political criterion, which is discriminatory towards the other aspiring cities. the president of the court said that she was chosen to support the peace process and, as far as i know, there is a terrorist organisation in spain called eta, which has not yet given up its arms and which two months ago got its political arm, bildu, to govern, among other municipalities, san sebastian. i do not think that we in europe should give such a powerful voice to those who do not condemn terrorist violence and who will propagandize to shift blame between victims and murderers. where is the right to freedom and dignity? certainly not in san sebastian, where our colleagues, like major oreja, iturgaiz, zalba, or myself, must be escorted. i believe in the culture of life, not the one of the bullet in the back of the head. ladies and gentlemen, can there be true culture without freedom? no, and a thousand times no. when san sebastián is a free city for all, they should run again and in the meantime, they should learn the culture of respect for those who think differently. because tomorrow he may deserve it, but today, with batasuna and his heirs in the institutions, he doesn't deserve it.
mr president, i want to take this opportunity to share the joy that san sebastián has been elected european capital of culture in 2016, but also to ask that you stop criticizing the decision of the jury and, above all, that you stop underestimating the great project that the city presented. the 'citizen energy waves' proposal is the result of a shared illusion, the work of thousands of people and different organisations with a common goal: culture as a promotion of knowledge among different people. san sebastián is already a cultural reference for its international film festival, jazz festival and human rights festival, but the project that has won the capital goes much further and proposes a myriad of activities ranging from a nobel prize meeting to a network of green spaces for culture, from a g-20 of ngos to a project that merges art and gastronomy. in short, a great project that has made this great city have won on their own merits and not by political decisions. changing that election would be a political decision.
mr president, last week a jury of european commission officials decided that donostia, san sebastian, should be european capital of culture in 2016. the jury believes that the basque commitment to bring together and to bring together people of different ideas, races, origins and languages is worth it. the proposal has won because it is original and constructive, because it is based on the citizens' impulse and because it has the enthusiasm and the impulse of an entire society and its institutions. in the last elections, the citizens wanted the donosti city council to change hands, but the winning project and the team that develops it remain the same. however, they have gone from deserving recognition to becoming, for some spanish media and politicians, a danger to the security of the state. this type of insults and disqualifications, which have also reached the jury of the cultural capital, forces us to ask why they question democracy and diversity. we have the right to project an open, welcoming, prosperous and active euskadi to the world, and we will do it with the winning project, because we are much more than violence and terrorism. helping us to tell it is a tool for peace.
mr president, this past saturday thousands of citizens celebrated gay pride day across europe, 30 years after the first aids case was discovered in the world. thirty years later, the fight against hiv across the globe is still unequal depending on where it is carried out and, within it, also depending on the social class to which one belongs, just as the rights of homosexuals are still profoundly unequal depending on the country in which they reside. there are still 76 countries around the world that criminalize same-sex relations and at least seven that also carry the death penalty. that is why the united nations resolution adopted on 17 june is of the utmost importance, condemning this attitude and urging these countries to change their attitude and legislation. today i want to join that call, as well as the call to block the directive on equal treatment, which gives or can give this broad group of citizens in the european union the same rights and the same equal opportunities, thus also setting the path for the european union as a whole on what should be a common path throughout the world.
mr president, three sentiments. firstly, it is intolerable that such disproportionate penalties should be imposed in denmark on mr lópez de uralde, who presented himself, in a display of peaceful protest and imagination, as the head of state of planet earth. secondly, i hope that israel will allow the flotilla of our colleague, my good friend willy meyer, to reach gaza and that the attack on the mavi marmara flotilla will not happen again. third: i congratulate san sebastian and its former mayor, odón elorza, for being nominated as european capital of culture in 2016, alongside poland's wrocław. they deserve it, they've been working on it for a long time. i hope both cities do well. you'll do well if you execute the award-winning projects well.
mr president, budget support is one of the most important forms of aid today. we are at a crucial juncture, as the commission is committed to increasing the funds devoted to budget support in the coming years. i believe that budget support is compatible with other forms of aid, provided there is a long-term commitment and better coordination between donors, while simplifying procedures. the commission should take a dynamic approach to the eligibility criteria and the result indicators should be set in relation to the achievement of poverty reduction targets. i believe that budget support should give priority to those programmes which have the greatest impact on poverty reduction and so we consider the ministries of health and education to be fundamental. similarly, gender perspective should also be introduced in budget support. another potential highlighted in the report is that budget support contributes to strengthening public management systems and audit and control capacity in developing countries. finally, mr president, i believe that both the national parliaments of the developing countries and the local and non-state authorities should be informed and able to contribute at all stages of budget support.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mr goerens for this very valuable contribution to the important debate on budget support. we welcome it because it invites the commission to continue our efforts to improve the design and the approach of budget support. mr goerens, the proposals that you raise come at a time when we are busy preparing the new communication on eu budget support. it is scheduled for adoption by mid-october. in this regard it is becoming apparent that your report – parliament’s report – and the emerging ideas of the new communication are moving in similar directions. as part of the new budget support policy, the commission will develop a closer link between general budget support and the fundamental values of the european union. this is particularly important when it comes to political governance. issues like human rights, democracy, the rule of law and the eligibility criteria covering macroeconomic public financial management and the national or sector strategy in the partner country will be assessed in a much more structured and rigorous way, as you also pointed out in your speech just now and in your report. ms jäätteenmäki, the commission will strengthen accountability and transparency in order to make development processes much more inclusive. the role of parliaments, civil society organisations and audit institutions in partner countries will be further strengthened as part of a budget support operation. the external oversight of national budgets is crucial for domestic accountability and international acceptance. in addition the commission will strengthen its risk assessment and management framework with regard to budget support in line with the recommendations of the recent court of auditors report. finally, we would also like to make a reference to the court of auditors report on budget support operations from 2010. the court there acknowledged that the commission has made considerable progress but noted that there are still weaknesses in the methodology and the management that can prevent budget support from reaching its full potential. with this statement and backed by council conclusions, i would like to contest the statement in paragraph 1 of the report that there have been numerous types of undesirable development and wastage of money. however, it is precisely because there are still improvements to be made that the commission will come with a communication in mid-october. mr goerens, your report will be very helpful in that regard.
the rapporteur. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank the alternative rapporteurs for their fruitful cooperation in drafting this report. i say the same of the other members, fellow members of this parliament's committee. the european coal and steel community was created 60 years ago. there is nothing better to commemorate this event than to discuss energy infrastructure in europe. today, the european union has clearly defined the objectives of its policy: the european internal market, the promotion of renewable energy as a means or instrument to combat climate change, security of supply and diversification of sources. the lisbon treaty contains a title on energy, title xxi, which contains the commitments i have just mentioned and also encourages the interconnection of energy networks. the aim of the report we have drawn up is to correct energy infrastructures which, in the opinion of the european commission, are outdated and poorly interconnected. for example, we are faced with a dramatic increase in wind power generation in the north sea and the baltic, with the immense potential of renewable energy in southern europe and northern africa, with the problems arising from large-scale electricity storage and the need to recharge electric vehicles, among many other pressing issues. all of this is impossible to tackle today without devising new networks and new connections, both within the european union and with third countries. the aim is therefore to make progress in the coming years in determining the infrastructure needed: (a) by establishing the criteria for selecting projects of european interest; (b) by abolishing the 'energy islands'; (c) by ensuring that these projects are carried out within reasonable timescales and by finding ways of resolving the conflicting issue of authorization and licensing procedures in the member states; and (d) by ensuring that financing attracts and stimulates private investment, without prejudice to any necessary public support. energy efficiency and savings, as well as smart grids, are key ingredients in the new design incorporated in the report, because we have believed that by reducing energy demand, we can reduce dependence on imports, with the consequent effect on infrastructure needs. the main concern of this report from the outset has been the processing of licences and authorizations to allow the necessary works to be carried out. projects are now perpetuated. and they are perpetuated by the opposition of the populations to see towers or other facilities grow in their vicinity. to resolve this conflict, early information to the public and a warning system have been considered in the event that the authorities of a state do not respond to a request within a reasonable period. we are faced with ambitious objectives, for which we all need to work together. in this respect, the companies in the sector are essential, and they rightly call for a stable regulatory framework, the best way to ensure the financing of their efforts. so far, the european union's energy policy, both within and outside its borders, has lacked a decidedly european impulse. europe must speak with one voice. a voice that is clearly audible and resounds loudly in the vault of the european building, because it is from our energy fragility that we must draw the strength to build an energetically solid and vigorous europe, a worthy successor, in this anniversary year, of that great invention which was the ecsc, our birthplace, precisely.
mr president, the current crisis situation requires us to rethink our development cooperation work at union level and to make a serious effort to improve our effectiveness and achieve more and better results in the fight against poverty. the european union is certainly an excellent platform for greater and better coordination of community and member state aid. we now have the opportunity to redouble our efforts in aid effectiveness and we know that official development assistance alone will not eradicate poverty. i would like to point out some of the challenges facing development cooperation at european and international level which will require our response and will probably require a rethinking of our priorities. the first is development cooperation after the millennium development goals. we must think now about what the next objectives of international cooperation to end poverty should be. secondly, to look for new and innovative financing mechanisms. today we know that official development assistance is necessary, but it will not be enough to achieve our goal of poverty eradication. we are in favour of introducing a financial transaction tax. thirdly, the need to achieve a real and complete integration of planning to combat poverty and combat climate change. and fourthly and lastly, we must consider how to continue cooperation with the emerging countries, while at the same time strengthening our work with the least developed countries.
the next item is the extremely important report by corinne lepage, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/18/ec as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory (com (2010) 0375) (c7-0178/2010 - 2010/0208 (cod)) (a7-0170/2011).
member of the commission. − mr president, about a year ago i presented the proposal on gmo cultivation to the parliament’s committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the key message of the proposal, which is limited in scope, would allow member states to restrict or prohibit gmo cultivation on their territory or on part of their territory. let me first congratulate the rapporteur, ms lepage, for her very active work and also thank the shadow rapporteurs of all the other political groups for their involvement. the draft report reflects the important work undertaken during the last months. i certainly welcome your efforts towards clarifying the grounds on which restrictions on cultivation may be justified. the possible grounds to be invoked are, by definition, open. that is why, in order to avoid restricting member states’ flexibility, the commission’s proposal referred only to grounds other than the assessment of adverse effects of gmos on health or the environment. i understand, however, that specifying these grounds in the proposal itself would enhance the proposal. i can therefore support this approach. as regards the concrete grounds being considered, i certainly welcome the fact that they are largely inspired by the list that the commission developed at the request of the member states at the environment council on 20 december 2010. a fundamental point for discussion between co-legislators is the formulation of environmental grounds. as with any other grounds, these would need to be substantiated in line with the reality of the territory in question. but it should be made explicit that these environmental reasons or policy objectives are distinct from risks assessed according to the gmo legislation. this is essential to preserve the eu authorisation system, with the member states playing an active role during the risk assessment prior to an eu-wide authorisation, but without duplication at national level once the authorisation is given. i want to emphasise that the proposal aims to give member states a choice not to cultivate. where there is an identified risk, it is not a matter of choice, but instead there is an obligation to act at eu level – and the existing legislation provides for precise and restrictive measures. a number of amendments concern articles of directive 2001/18/ec other than the proposed new article 26b. in its proposal, the commission favoured a targeted amendment to deliver specifically on member states’ requests for an opt-out clause. it did not touch other articles. while we could consider, in an overall agreement, some of the amendments modifying other articles, there are two particular amendments that warrant careful attention. accepting amendment 12, relating to article 22 on free circulation, could weaken our argumentation in the event of eu or wto litigation. similarly, as regards amendment 24 on a general mandatory system of financial liability, it is questionable whether this proposal to introduce an opt-out clause for cultivation is the right instrument to address financial liability. furthermore, article 114 of the treaty does not seem to be the appropriate legal basis for imposing an obligation on member states to adopt financial liability systems. i consider, however, that article 114 is the appropriate legal basis for this proposal, whose centre of gravity is the approximation of laws in member states for the establishment of the internal market. let me conclude by underlining that the parliament, the council and the commission need to continue working in an effective and productive manner to build bridges between opposing views on gmo cultivation. i remain committed to working closely with the two co-legislators with the aim of reaching agreement as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i would like to thank you for the work you have done on this document, but i have to say that no agreement has been reached between the political groups. this is a document of great significance because it breaks the unity of environmental policy which has always existed in europe. it is breaking it on the basis of demands, to which the commission has rightly responded. the people's group is not entirely united either, but we have reached some minimum agreements, in which we understand, first of all, that the legal pillar cannot be changed, because it endangers the internal market. the internal market is one of the great values we have achieved, which guarantees agriculture and guarantees our negotiations at the wto. we therefore want a document which, despite the uncertainty it creates, is well founded on a proper legal formula. secondly, we tried to strengthen the scientific character of the decisions. we have a great body, the european food safety authority, which we cannot weaken by returning to making decisions based on the criteria of the national authorities alone. we therefore support the case-by-case approach, not subjective decisions, and we also take into account that we are today subject to a great deal of populism, to media pressure which often leads to the loss of clear and objective scientific values. finally, we want to say that we must guarantee agriculture in europe. europe needs to be strengthened. and i would add something else: certain forms of nationalism are the greatest and most dangerous form of euroscepticism. i think that we have spoken here of democracies based on national parliaments and we must bear in mind that it is also democracy that a european common policy has achieved a great environmental policy. the people's group therefore officially supports the document, although there are groups, such as the spanish delegation, who think otherwise. it will obviously support the commission's dalli report, but it will not support the lepage report if our amendments are not adopted.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
mr president, on 6 june the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs sent a letter to the president of parliament in which she pointed out the problem with paragraph 55, because it conflicts with article 175 of the treaty and with the division of powers between the committees of this house. on behalf of the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs, mrs berès, who is not here today for reasons of greater urgency, i would ask you to vote against, because the future of the european globalisation adjustment fund is at stake, and this is not the instrument and this is not the time to discuss this matter.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to table a technical amendment to remove a duty imposed on the commission, which it has already fulfilled with much due diligence.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because it will add environmental, food and legal security to the decisions taken in europe on genetically modified crops. the report improves on the commission proposal by adding guarantees and clarifying the reasons for justifying restrictions at local level. if approved, additional restrictions linked to specific geographical areas may be justified on a case-by-case basis by complementary environmental assessments at local level, conflicting data from local or community-level studies, or new data and scientific evidence since the general assessment. other evaluation factors are also incorporated in the authorization of these crops, such as soil management, which is closely related to the regulated coexistence between gm and non-gm crops. finally, i think it is right to change the legal basis and to refer authorizations to the environmental content of the treaties, instead of to the internal market clause, because it improves legal certainty but also conveys values. in these sensitive matters, it is better to regulate from the environmental point of view than from the commercial point of view.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because it goes into more detail on the definition of social services of general interest. they're not expenses, they're an investment for people and distributive justice. the commission is therefore urging the member states to ensure that access to these services is universal and standardised, and that it is provided under the same conditions in good times as in times of economic downturn. because, in line with the above, this report highlights the impact that the provision of these services has on the economy by the employment they provide, the gross domestic product they generate and the conditions they offer for other sectors, especially medium and small enterprises, to be able to function. the provision of these services is fundamental to equality and the reconciliation of family and work life. and finally, the commitment to the social economy, when it opts for the liberalization of these services. it is better that capital be a mere instrument of those who provide social services, not the ultimate end. this ensures that surpluses are reinvested in quality and innovation, and in improving service.
in writing. − the replacement of ms koch-mehrin was agreed by consensus.
in writing. − the replacement of mr lambrinidis was agreed by consesus.
in writing. − according to rule 124 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament (‘consultation of the european economic and social committee’): ‘1. where the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for consultation of the economic and social committee, the president shall initiate the consultation procedure and inform parliament thereof. 2. a committee may request that the european economic and social committee be consulted on matters of a general nature or on specific points. the committee shall indicate the deadline for delivery by the european economic and social committee of its opinion. a request for consultation of the european economic and social committee shall be approved by parliament without debate. 3. opinions forwarded by the economic and social committee shall be referred to the committee responsible.’
in writing. − according to rule 124 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament (‘consultation of the european economic and social committee’): ‘1. where the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for consultation of the economic and social committee, the president shall initiate the consultation procedure and inform parliament thereof. 2. a committee may request that the european economic and social committee be consulted on matters of a general nature or on specific points. the committee shall indicate the deadline for delivery by the european economic and social committee of its opinion. a request for consultation of the european economic and social committee shall be approved by parliament without debate. 3. opinions forwarded by the economic and social committee shall be referred to the committee responsible.’
in writing. - i voted in favour of allocating eur 14 181 901 from the egf to the odense steel shipyard, a shipbuilding company in southern denmark, because it meets the requirements of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. it covers 1 356 redundancies, 150 of which were claimed for aid to support reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. − in favour. as usual in this type of reports, the ep requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to improve procedural and budgetary arrangements in order to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf; appreciates in this sense the improved procedure put in place by the commission, following parliament’s request for accelerating the release of grants, aimed at presenting to the budgetary authority the commission’s assessment on the eligibility of an egf application together with the proposal to mobilise the fund; hopes that further improvements in the procedure will be reached in the framework of the upcoming reviews of the egf and that greater efficiency, transparency and visibility of the fund will be achieved. it recalls as well the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis; and emphasises the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for slovenia, croatia and the czech republic because they meet the eligibility criteria set out in regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 and to help them overcome the heavy damage caused to infrastructure, agriculture, businesses and private homes by the heavy rains and flooding in august and september 2010.
in writing. − in favour. the ep: 1. approves the decision annexed to this resolution; 2. recalls that point 26 of the iia of 17 may 2006 foresees that where there is scope for reallocating appropriations under the heading requiring additional expenditure, the commission shall take this into account when making the necessary proposal; 3. notes that the commission, by calling for additional commitments and payments to cover the needs of the eusf at this early stage of the year, found no possibility for redeployment nor reallocating within and between headings concerned; 4. awaiting council's position, is ready to consider the overall situation of payments in the context of the outturn of the 2010 budget or in the context of another draft amending budget to be proposed by the commission in the coming weeks.
in writing. - in line with the böge report, i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 2011 for the financial year 2011, which provides for the disbursement from the eu solidarity fund of eur 19.5 million in commitment and payment appropriations to subsidize aid for the rains that fell in slovenia, croatia and the czech republic in august and september 2010.
in writing. − in favour. it basically considers the redeployments adopted by council counter to the joint statement on payment appropriations, to which it attaches value and feels committed. it also decides to amend the council’s position as shown in the annex to this resolution, with a view to covering the needs ensuing from the mobilisation of the eusf; drawing upon the negative reserve and reinforcing payment appropriations for the egf.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to help 825 of the 1 650 workers made redundant by lm glasfiber, a machine tool company, in particular wind turbines, to facilitate their integration into the labour market. the companies have been affected by the reduction in demand due to the crisis, combined with the increase in demand in asia.
in writing. − in favour. parliament, firstly, requests that the institutions involved make the necessary efforts to improve procedural and budgetary arrangements in order to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf; appreciates in this sense the improved procedure put in place by the commission, following parliament’s request for accelerating the release of grants, aimed at presenting to the budgetary authority the commission’s assessment on the eligibility of an egf application together with the proposal to mobilise the fund; hopes that further improvements in the procedure will be reached in the framework of the upcoming reviews of the egf and that greater efficiency, transparency and visibility of the fund will be achieved. secondly, parliament recalls the institutions’ commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis; emphasises the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market;
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to create an agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, because we have no choice, because the commission cannot do it. it is a technical and operational management agency. it shall be responsible for the oversight and security infrastructure and shall ensure a secure network for the exchange of data within the legal framework of each of the systems involved.
in writing. − in favour. according the rapporteur, whom we supported, we need to establish a new agency. there is plainly no other solution. it would be quite wrong to assign the responsibility to the commission, especially in view of the protracted problems that have occurred in recent years regarding the development of the systems. furthermore, the commission itself has repeatedly pointed out that its running of eurodac is merely a stopgap solution and that it does not consider itself equal to the task of assuming direct management responsibility for large-scale it systems. why would the solution not lie in an executive agency? because in that case the legislature would be denied the possibility to shape the agency and exercise its democratic scrutiny. executive agencies are set up by the commission entirely under its supervision and responsibility. the commission lays down their tasks and appoints their managing bodies, including the director. an executive agency has a limited lifespan and would thus be a temporary solution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this initiative because guyana, being an outermost region, is facing economic and social difficulties due to its insular nature which are detrimental to its regional development. france, through the island arbitration, can establish a tax differential for some products manufactured in those places. the extension of the list of products eligible for the tax differential in guyana to 50 products will make it possible to encourage or maintain local activities and investments aimed at local development and employment.
in writing. − article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (formerly article 229(2) of the ec treaty) authorises the council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting parliament, to adopt specific measures for the benefit of the union’s outermost regions, taking account of their social and economic situation. the fact that these regions are permanently disadvantaged by their insularity, remoteness from major markets, small size, difficult topography and climate and their economic dependence on a small number of products severely hinders their development and fully justifies the implementation of specially tailored measures. such is the basis for the so-called ‘dock dues’ system, under which france is authorised, until 1 july 2014, to apply differential rates of the tax known as ‘dock dues’ to certain products manufactured in its four overseas departments (ods). this report on the dock dues system follows the submission by france of a mid-term report on its implementation, in accordance with article 4 of decision 2004/162/ec.
in writing. − in favour. the report intends to assess recent developments related to the basic concept of universal service, as enshrined in the universal service directive and in the context of the new developments, including universal access to broadband, the coordination of approaches and its financing, taking into account the specific needs of vulnerable people and disabled consumers. the report also focuses on the single european emergency number, 112, introduced to enable citizens to call the emergency services by using one and the same number from anywhere in the eu.
in writing. − in favour. this ini report aims to analyse barriers to a fair and more efficient retail market, and to make recommendations for an eventual commission action plan in this area the rapporteur was advised to keep to imco competences and not to digress into other issues such as those covered by josé bové’s agri own-initiative report on a fair revenues for farmers. shadows’ meetings were largely consensual and all groups signed all compromise amendments apart from one which greens/efa and s&d could not sign. this amendment which we could not sign relates to collective redress and we wanted text mentioning a possible legislative proposal from the commission if appropriate. shadows were not able to come to an agreement so we had a separate vote on our amendments on collective redress (which we lost). overall, the report was ok for us so greens/efa voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 3/2011 of the european union because i share the view that the revenue from interest on late payments and fines should not be considered as surplus and should be reinvested in the eu budget.
in writing. − in favour. the ep: 1. takes note of draft amending budget no 3/2011 devoted solely to the budgeting of the 2010 surplus, in accordance with article 15 of the financial regulation; 2. is of the firm conviction that the part of income calculated from interest on late payments and fines is not to be considered as a surplus and should therefore not be deducted from the member states’ contributions (own resources based on gni); 3. considers, on the contrary, that such income, stemming from the enforcement of eu competition policy, should be directly put back and reinvested in the eu budget; is determined to promote and defend this principle in the forthcoming negotiations on annual and multiannual budgets; 4. approves however the council’s position on draft amending budget no 3/2011 as unamended and instructs its president to declare that amending budget no 3/2011 has been definitively adopted and arrange for its publication in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. - i have supported the report on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection legislation because, by clarifying the existing legal framework and improving coordination, it increases the effectiveness of consumer protection legislation and policies and has a positive and direct impact on everyday aspects of the lives of european citizens.
in writing. − in favour. regulation 2006/2004 (the ‘cpc regulation’) was adopted by the european parliament and the council on 27 october 2004 and entered into force on 29 december 2006. the regulation aims to abolish the barriers to cross-border cooperation between public enforcement authorities to detect, investigate and bring about the cessation or prohibition of intra-eu infringements of the laws which protect consumers’ interests. the regulation is intended to efficiently and effectively tackle cross-border rogue traders which disrupt the smooth functioning of the internal market, and thus increase consumer confidence in taking up cross-border offers, and prevent sellers and suppliers from evading enforcement to the competitive detriment of law-abiding sellers and suppliers. the regulation achieves its aims by establishing an eu-wide network of public authorities responsible for enforcing consumer laws in the member states (the ‘cpc network’), which started operating in december 2006. the cpc regulation partially harmonises the authorities’ investigative and enforcement powers and lays down the mechanisms for exchanging relevant information and/or taking enforcement action to stop infringements in cross-border situations.
in writing. the european parliament voted today in plenary on the proposal for a regulation on derivatives. these products have so far been traded without any regulatory framework and in the greatest opacity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. as my colleague pascal canfin, the green's negotiator of the text, said, 'parliament's vote marks a major step in regulating the non-legal areas of the financial sphere. the derivatives market has been in self-regulation for too long. parliament decided to give clear support to the european commission's proposal. with this reform, otc derivatives that are currently traded bilaterally will migrate to clearing houses, which will reduce systemic risk".
in writing. - derivatives played an important role in the financial crisis. the g20 committed in pittsburgh to regulating otc derivatives by 2013. doing so is essential to knowing and reducing your systemic risk. the broad agreement reached in the committee on economic and monetary affairs is the result of the good work of mr langen and the alternative rapporteurs. the establishment of trade repositories and clearing houses, the application of risk management techniques and the strengthening of european supervision will ensure greater transparency and security as well as more effective supervision in the field of otc derivatives. my amendments were intended to enrich its content and strengthen consistency at global level taking into account the dodd-frank act in the usa. i am grateful to the rapporteur for including it, thus ensuring that the scope of regulation is widened, the requirements for clearing houses are tightened up, record-keeping and information requirements are imposed on financial counterparties and the role of supervisory authorities is clarified in the new european architecture. i hope that the postponement of the vote on the legislative resolution will allow an agreement to be reached with the council, under the polish presidency, at first reading.
in writing. − in favour. this report includes parliament’s amendments to the commission proposal. the amendments are also correlated with most of the council amendments. the main amendments concern the following issues: a) ‘lisbonising’ of the financial conglomerates directive; b) amending directive 2009/138/ec on solvency ii in a similar way as is proposed for directive 98/78/ec (article 3a (new)); c) ensuring that the new european supervisory authorities will issue general guidelines regarding the supervision of the financial conglomerates through the joint committee; d) improving the transparency of the supervisory activity on the financial conglomerates, including the list and structure of financial conglomerates which will be published; e) defining and including mixed financial holding companies in the supplementary supervision; f) introducing stress testing at the level of each financial conglomerate; g) including alternative investment fund managers in the scope.
in writing. meps voted today, by a large majority, in favour of a ban on naked cdss on the sovereign debts of european states. my colleague pascal canfin, rapporteur for the text for parliament, said: 'parliament has just demonstrated to the council its determination to put an end to speculation in sovereign debts in europe. the sovereign debt crisis in the euro area demonstrates every day the need for strict controls on speculation in the debts of states. europe can no longer allow speculators to enrich themselves at the expense of its citizens who have to bail out the coffers of states on the verge of bankruptcy. the text voted today in plenary would make it impossible for a hedge fund to buy greek cdss without holding greek government bonds and thus speculate on the country's bankruptcy. in addition to the ban on sovereign cdss, parliament clearly reaffirmed its desire for stricter controls on short selling of shares. the parliament's wish for a stronger role for esma in this regulation is also confirmed.'
in writing. − in favour. the new eu legislation should increase the harmonisation and integration of the single european market, strengthen consumer protection and create more confidence for consumers and depositors and enhance financial stability. the rapporteur has suggested three main objectives: a. to increase consumer protection through a higher coverage; b. to improve the single european market for financial services and create european harmonisation of investor compensation schemes in the union; c. to put forward long term robust financing principles for investor compensation schemes.
in writing. − this vote would clearly strengthen the hand of member states that want to prohibit gmo cultivation under the proposed new rules, ensuring they have a stronger legal basis for banning cultivation. clearly an eu-wide moratorium would give the greatest certainty to the member states and the clear majority of citizens that are opposed to gmo cultivation. however, this vote would give greater legal certainty to countries or regions wishing to introduce bans and, as such, is a step forward. importantly, gmo cultivation could be banned on environmental grounds – such as to protect biodiversity – or if there is a lack of adequate data on the impact of cultivating a gm crop. in favour. given the very real concerns of cross-contamination of conventional crops by gm crops, including cross-border contamination, we welcome the broad consensus to make anti-contamination measures mandatory. member states that still do not have such measures in place have to adopt them. meps also supported a green proposal calling on member states to establish a strict liability system to ensure the polluter pays for damages that might occur due to the cultivation or placing on the market of gmos.
in writing. − this common resolution calls on the hungarian authorities to address the issues and concerns raised by the venice commission and to implement its recommendations, either by amending the new constitution or through future cardinal and ordinary laws, notably to: a – actively seek consensus, to ensure greater transparency and to foster genuine political and social inclusion and a broad public debate in connection with the forthcoming drafting and adoption of the cardinal laws laid down in the new constitution; b – adopt only the basic and clearly defined scope of cardinal laws regulating the tax and pension systems, family policies and cultural, religious and socio-economic policies, allowing future governments and democratically elected legislatures to take autonomous decisions on these policies; revise the current mandate of the budget council; c – guarantee equal protection of the rights of every citizen, no matter which religious, sexual, ethnic or other societal group they belong to, in accordance with article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights, in the constitution and its preamble;
in writing. − parliament today failed to adopt a report on the eu’s climate change policy, after the final report was rejected by a majority of meps. the greens were forced to vote against an originally strong draft, after centre-right amendments aimed at fundamentally weakening the report and previous positions adopted by parliament were passed by a narrow majority. it is with great regret that my colleague and rapporteur bas eickhout was forced to recommend that meps reject my own report after it was hijacked by amendments from conservative and centre-right meps. the amendments, which passed by the tightest of majorities, would have meant the final report was a step back from previous positions adopted by parliament and, as a result, the least-worst outcome was to prevent the report from being adopted. it is extremely frustrating that conservative and centre-right meps continue to keep their heads in the sand with regard to climate policy. it is clear that the eu’s current 20 % emissions target for 2020 is completely obsolete and that the eu needs to deliver on its pledges and step up to a 30 % reduction target. the commission itself made this case last year. clearly, there are plenty of climate dinosaurs in the ep.
in writing. i abstained. the adoption of the new category of intermediate regions, which our group has supported from the outset, to reduce more effectively the development gap between the poorest and the richest regions, is an undeniable step towards a more equitable distribution of the structural and cohesion funds, provided that the budget devoted to this aid is not reduced. this is an idea which we have been strongly advocating since the publication of the fifth report and which will benefit many european regions. we believe, however, that the european parliament should have gone further by proposing a more relevant indicator than gdp, and by adding social and environmental criteria to it, in order to measure the well-being of the territories when allocating aid between european regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the future of eu budget support to developing countries because it goes further in the criterion of involving civil society in the recipient states in the control of the use of the funds received, strengthening local democracy and also favouring a more objective and realistic assessment of the results achieved by the aid operations financed by these funds.
in writing. − in favour. budget support is the transfer of financial resources from an external funding agency to the national treasury of a partner country, subject to the latter’s compliance with agreed conditions for payment. the funds thus received are part of the partner country’s overall resources, and are consequently used in accordance with its public finance management system. although budget support has been granted for some time (since the marshall plan, in fact), it became popular in the 1980s and 1990s when the world bank and various bilateral cooperation structures began to provide such support in the form of balance-of-payments aid. a second wave of such support in the period from 2000 to 2005 introduced a new, coordinated approach based on general budget support. this form of budget support was intended to further the policies and strategies of partner countries with a view to developing the concepts of ownership and closer partnership more fully.
in writing. - i have supported this report on the priorities for energy infrastructure beyond 2020 because it is a practical expression of the usefulness of the european union for citizens. the report focuses on issues that will have a major impact on citizens' well-being, such as better access to various energy sources at lower costs, reduced environmental impact and more efficient generation, distribution and consumption. the report will help to identify the infrastructure needed to achieve these objectives, establish the criteria for declaring 'projects of european interest', ensure the implementation of reasonable projects, guaranteeing debate, information and citizen participation, improve cost allocation and ensure financing that attracts and stimulates private investment.
in writing. - we know that only by creating a network without internal bottlenecks, which overcomes the current situation of isolation of certain european regions, will we be able to ensure the three pillars of our energy policy: competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply. however, a third of the member states are still short of the 10% interconnection capacity target set for 1992. that is why we want to reiterate the eu's commitment to this target and, more importantly, insist that it be followed up in the same way as the 20-20-20 targets for emission reductions, the use of renewable energy and increased efficiency. the development of infrastructure considered to be of european interest cannot therefore depend solely on the will of two member states, nor should it be based solely on commercial criteria. the ten-year plan for developing the network is a small step forward, but after the first exercise last june we have seen that, in general, the european vision is lacking. we ask that this top-down approach be complemented by a structured bottom-up approach incorporating the european perspective.
in writing. among other things, the report stresses that a european approach devised in cooperation with all stakeholders is needed to fully exploit the benefits of new infrastructure, and stresses the need to develop a complementary harmonised method, in line with internal market rules, for the selection of infrastructure projects. it also stressed that this approach should take account of the european and regional perspectives of rebalancing inequalities and optimising socioeconomic and environmental effects.
in writing. in favour. as my colleague, karima delli, has also said, i welcome the vote on mr de rossa's report, which recalls that social services of general interest are at the heart of the european social model. we recall that social services of general interest (ssig) are for everyone and that it is therefore necessary to guarantee universal access to them, especially in the case of social housing. the european parliament also called on the european commission to propose legislation to recognise universal access to basic banking services and broadband internet. finally, we ask for clarification of the criteria for distinguishing between economic and non-economic services, which would make it possible to protect social services more effectively. unfortunately, while the urgency of the economic and social situation would have required members to call for a framework legislative instrument on ssigs, as proposed by the greens/efa group in its alternative resolution, my colleagues refused to take this courageous initiative.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on increasing the impact of eu development policy because it is a very good contribution to reorientating the european union's development aid policy and improving the impact of its development policy in the countries receiving aid. it will also serve to clarify objectives and procedures, and thus help european citizens to understand the objectives of this effort, share its results and ultimately strengthen civic support for these solidarity operations focused on eradicating poverty and aligned with the millennium development goals.
in writing. − abstention. it is a timely moment for a broad debate at the eu level on the future of the eu development policy. it is important that the eu defines its vision, its ambitions, objectives and appropriate instruments, before deciding about the place of development aid in the upcoming multi-annual financial framework (mff). on some of the issues raised in the commission’s green paper on eu development policy in support of inclusive growth and sustainable development, parliament has an established position or is currently preparing reports. the rapporteur will therefore focus this working document on the elements which suggest a change of orientation, in particular the proposals for ‘high-impact aid’, the concept of ‘inclusive growth’ and the involvement of the private sector. the future shape of the eu aid policy and the role of the commission, rather than the member states, will be at the centre. in evaluating the commission proposals, we have a clear benchmark, which is article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the primary objective of eu aid must be the reduction and, in the long term, the eradication of poverty.
president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last wednesday the commission adopted its proposals for the next multiannual financial framework, which i had the honour, together with mr lewandowski, of presenting immediately to the conference of presidents. in the course of drawing up these proposals, we have benefited greatly from the high quality of your contributions, in particular the excellent sure report, for which i thank you. the european budget we are proposing for the period 2014-2020 is both ambitious, innovative, responsible and rigorous. it is a budget which, in the present economic context, provides reasonable funding for our major european policies, with increased funding for sectors with a promising future. it is a budget which will not cost the taxpayer more than the current budget but which can make a big difference for 500 million europeans. how is that? firstly, by concentrating our spending on priority funding which will enable us to achieve our common objectives, those of the europe 2020 strategy, together. that is why the budget we are proposing is largely devoted to growth and employment. it is true that even today in some of our countries there are quite demanding programmes, including budgetary consolidation. but it is also true that we must promote growth. without growth, we cannot find our way back to prosperity. and so, let us not forget that this budget, which is for 2014, is a budget that should strengthen growth and employment in europe; it is a budget that must serve this idea of growth. we propose in particular a significant increase - by 46% - in the budget for research and innovation and a strengthening of programmes for european education, training and youth. and to stimulate sustainable economic growth, we propose that cohesion policy, with a budget of €376 billion, be more closely linked to the europe 2020 strategy. we must avoid dispersion and develop a strong culture of european responsibility. any request for european funds must be clearly linked to the achievement of our common priority objectives. this is what i call positive conditionality, and this is how we will succeed in extracting the maximum potential from every euro spent. because one and the same euro can and must have multiple impacts. a single euro, well invested, can both strengthen economic and territorial cohesion, increase energy efficiency, contribute to the fight against climate change and promote social objectives. that is why i have, from the outset, invited the analysts to look at the budget not from the angle in which we traditionally look at the envelopes, sector by sector, sometimes in an approach which i would rather call bureaucratic, but to see what can be done by articulating the different policies because, as i have said, one euro can help us to achieve several european objectives at the same time. that is why the common agricultural policy, for example, while remaining the most important european policy and i insist, the common agricultural policy which has been so attacked remains in our proposal, the first european policy , must also be able to contribute fully to other priority common objectives. we therefore propose that farmers should also contribute to improving the ecological character of their farms. it is useful, of course, to achieve agricultural objectives, but it is also useful to achieve our environmental policy objectives and to combat climate change. it is essential for the future of our children and grandchildren that we all become more environmentally friendly and strongly committed to the fight against climate change. that is why we are proposing a refocusing of policies in this area, and we want to increase the share of this to at least 20% of total overall expenditure. we can also make a big difference to the daily lives of our fellow citizens by better adapting our spending to the needs where they are felt at the right time. i am thinking in particular of countries, both within and outside the euro area, which benefit from macroeconomic assistance programmes and which we can support in their efforts to consolidate their budgets, through a temporary increase in community cofinancing, with a constant budget. i would like to stress this aspect, which is very important. sometimes analysts focus on the total value, on what's in the budget. finally, what is interesting is the investment that really touches people, the investment that really serves the poorest regions of our europe, and which can be improved by also increasing the absorption capacity. i am thinking also, and particularly, of the most deprived of europeans, those who literally need our help to survive. in order to meet the needs of those who would not have enough to eat without food aid, we propose to renew the programme of aid to the most deprived for the period 2014-2020, and we hope that the council will finally approve the draft regulation which has been on its table since 2008, so that we can resume this programme in 2012. finally, an effective european budget serving all europeans is one which brings real european added value, that is to say, one which is truly pan-european. a pan-european approach implies, among other things, that the eu should finance what the member states cannot finance on their own. this means taking advantage of all the synergy effects, the scale effects, but also avoiding unnecessary duplication. in some cases, savings can be made by spending at european level. so all those who, in a simplistic way, say that by spending more money on europe, the principle of economy is being violated, are simply wrong. very often, one euro spent at european level saves us what is spent at national level. and as you know, one of our main proposals is the creation of a connecting europe facility to finance integration projects in the transport, energy and information technology sectors. it will improve access to the internal market and end the isolation of certain economic islands. we propose to allocate a budget of eur 40 billion to this new fund, to which we would add eur 10 billion from the cohesion fund. and we are also planning to use european project bonds. as i promised you here in plenary, we believe that very significant leverage effects can be achieved if a certain amount of the european budget is mobilised, combined with loans from the european investment bank and even private financing, in the case of certain medium and longterm projects which will, moreover, in most cases be profitable projects. this is one of the important innovations in our proposal. the budget we are proposing is also very clearly a budget of solidarity. solidarity with the poorest member states and regions, but also solidarity in our efforts to tackle the great challenges we face, from energy security to migration; solidarity also with third countries, especially the poorest countries. it is important that europe should make its voice heard in the world in order to defend its interests, but also to promote its values, the foremost of which is respect for the dignity of the human person. that is why we are proposing to increase the budget for external relations to eur 70.2 billion, including eur 20.6 billion for the development cooperation financing instrument, so that we can meet our commitments to the millennium development goals, and in particular to eradicating poverty. solidarity also means that the european institutions must contribute to the overall european effort. we therefore propose not to increase administrative expenditure, which currently represents only 5.7% of the total union budget. and, in parallel, we propose further changes to the statute of the european civil service, which could generate savings of more than €1 billion by 2020, while ensuring its independence, competence and permanence. i want to emphasize that. we are making these proposals because we think that we too must show solidarity with those who are facing greater difficulties. but we are not making these proposals because we think badly of the european civil service. on the contrary, i believe that the european administration is one of the best in the world, and i believe that it is in our interest to maintain the prestige and independence of the european civil service. this ambitious, innovative and supportive budget is also a responsible and realistic budget based on a rigorous approach. as you know, the total amount of commitment appropriations is 1.11% of gdp. this includes both the part traditionally designated as the financial perspective, at 1.05 per cent of eu gdp in commitments - with a forecast of 1 per cent in payment appropriations and, in addition, at 0.06 per cent, appropriations for contingency reserves, for which the union must be ready to intervene if necessary, but also for large projects which have experienced significant budgetary slippages, such as iter and gmes, and to integrate the european development fund already financed by direct contributions from the member states. we propose to make savings in certain areas so that we can spend more on the priorities of today and tomorrow. so while maintaining the priority given to economic, social and territorial cohesion - because, as i have often said, without cohesion, there is no solidarity, and without solidarity, there is no union - and also by maintaining the role of the cap, we are freeing up resources for the financing of new priorities, such as research and innovation, education and training, pan-european infrastructure, energy, migration and neighbourhood policy. if europe does not invest more in these sectors, we will not be up to the challenge. i believe that these sectors are essential, particularly to ensure europe's competitiveness in an increasingly demanding world. we also want a budget which is more autonomous, more transparent and more equitable, in the spirit of the treaty. even though the member states want to pay less - and many member states would prefer to pay less - we want to reduce their contribution by increasing own resources, with a constant budget. i promised you that i would come back with proposals for own resources, and that is what the commission has done. this is the intention behind our proposals for new own resources - with a financial transaction tax and a modernisation of the vat resource - and also our proposals for a reform of the rebate system and the correction mechanisms. ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that the debates ahead will be very difficult. more than ever, it is essential that these debates are animated by a true european spirit so that we can together transform these proposals into an ambitious and realistic budget that meets the expectations of our citizens. i know that the commission can count on this parliament to do so. thank you for your attention. (applause) i would like to thank
acting president of the council. - mr president, mr president of the european commission! it is very appropriate that the first session of the european parliament, when the polish presidency is in office, should be devoted to the discussion of the multiannual financial framework, because this will be one of the most serious, perhaps the most difficult tasks of the polish presidency and of our trio, which also includes our colleagues from denmark and cyprus. i would like to note that the european parliament will be an important partner in the work on the multiannual financial framework. parliament has spoken. the report by salvador garriga was adopted by a large majority in the june parliamentary session. we are now awaiting the council's decision. the polish presidency will spend the next six months analysing the european commission's proposal in great detail. it will be, as we sometimes say, perhaps a little frivolously, a 'phase of enlightenment' in the discussion on the multiannual financial framework, an enlightenment on the various aspects of the european commission's proposal. the general affairs council will coordinate this work, including the debate on own resources. the general affairs council will hold political and horizontal debates on the multiannual financial framework. the treaty of course provides that the council and parliament should make every effort to reach agreement on the shape of the multiannual financial framework, and in that spirit the polish presidency will seek to steer the process together with the european commission. i also wanted to note with satisfaction that the hungarian presidency, as well as our trio, had agreed on the way in which the council and parliament would cooperate on cooperation in the mff. regular cooperation will take place in the format of the general affairs council. parliament will be informed in the context of any discussions in the general affairs council. i would also like to remind you that, as a gesture of goodwill, as a gesture of our openness to cooperation with parliament, the polish presidency has invited representatives of the european parliament to the informal meeting of european affairs ministers to be held in poland at the end of july. finally, i would like to remind you that, in addition to the political and technical process in the council, we will have the opportunity to organise, in the autumn, a political conference with the european commission and the european parliament, together with the national parliaments and other actors, which will be devoted to all aspects of the multiannual financial framework and to the analysis of the commission's proposals. we hope that this initiative of the polish presidency will contribute to increasing the transparency and democratic visibility of the negotiation process on the multiannual financial framework.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of europe are calling for institutional unity and clarity in the european project. in a time of crisis, the union must be a beacon for the future, not a scapegoat for national faults. this fifth financial framework of the union was born under the sign of cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we regret, however, that this increase of 5% of the total resources requested by members has not been collected by the commission. this practical freezing of financial resources will leave us with no room for negotiation with the council if it finally rejects the commission's proposal and reduces the resources. at that point the distance between parliament's position and that of the council will become too great to reach agreement. that is why we were defending the 5% margin. the commission has gone to great lengths to meet very ambitious spending targets with scarce resources. we welcome the efforts made in cohesion, the new transeuropean networks, energy efficiency, immigration, own resources and research, in particular. we regret that the common agricultural policy is the only policy which loses in net terms so that the other community policies win. you must calm the legitimate concerns of members who are committed to agriculture. overall, however, the barroso proposal is a commitment to a modern, innovative budget open to the participation of the new financial instruments. we give them a margin of confidence and cooperation, although we foresee very difficult negotiations.
madam president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, i think you have missed a great opportunity to make a good proposal for the financial perspective. i don't think this is an ambitious proposal. the commission has the right and the duty to take the initiative, and i sincerely believe that you have not taken the opportunity to propose what you really believe the european union needs. they haven't done their homework. i have the impression that this proposal is more the result of negotiation than the principle and the will of the commission. as for the level of funding, the truth is that i do not see those increases of 11% and 9%. i don't know how they're doing those calculations. you have simply taken some money from the common agricultural policy or from cohesion and distributed it to other programmes, but you have not increased the money. we are facing a freeze in the financial framework. that is why i am sorry that in your speech - in which i very much share the idea of the european union and where we should put the emphasis - when we go to the data, when we go to the figures, the literature does not match the numbers. i can give you some examples. it seems that the eighth framework programme's funding is being increased by 30%. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. but there is a positive side to this whole proposal: the own resources side. finally, we have a proposal on own resources which takes up initiatives from this parliament. it is good that you want to change vat and it is very good that you are finally proposing a rate for financial transactions and, although we still have some details to be worked out in the autumn, it is a good step forward. but once again you are half-way there, because this debate is going to be a very long-term one and, with the proposal you are making to us, we have only managed to reduce the member states' contribution from 75 to 40%, so we are not meeting the objectives we set ourselves.
madam president, commissioner, mrs sommer, the shadow rapporteurs, the hungarian presidency and the commission have reached a good agreement on this regulation which is so important for consumers and the food industry. happy birthday to all of them. as consumers, we naturally want to have complete information on everything we eat, but putting this information on the packaging is not an easy task and we have to find a balance in everything. and we must look for a cost-benefit balance, because we cannot forget that the information on the label - and depending on what information it is - makes the product more expensive. and someone has to pay that cost. and if consumers do not pay for it, many small and mediumsized enterprises have to leave the market because they cannot compete with the big ones, which can afford the extra cost. i think that this balance has been achieved and we should be satisfied. for example, the labelling of the country of origin. it was already provided that the origin of the products should be labelled in the event of confusion. and, furthermore, this labelling is allowed to be done voluntarily. as for products processed with several ingredients, it is not easy to determine which is the main ingredient in all of them. therefore, a solution different from the one adopted would raise implementation problems because of the economic cost and administrative complexity for the companies, without providing any clear additional benefit for the consumer. i also agree that this legislation should not apply to alcoholic products, since all alcoholic products already have very comprehensive legislation on their labelling and everyone knows that when you drink an alcoholic product you are consuming alcohol, that it has calories. in short, everything is important, but above all, consumer education is very important to digest all this information.
mr president, the aim of amendment 137, which i tabled with 40 other colleagues, regarding languages on food labelling is respect for language diversity in the european union. every citizen has the right to information in his own language, even if this language is not yet an official language of the european union. diversity in the eu means that millions of european citizens have a language as their mother tongue which is not officially recognised in this parliament. in the case of catalonia, it is a reality that thousands of enterprises use catalan alone on the labels of their products. this has been done for several years and has been welcomed by millions of european consumers. this regulation will allow some member states to use article 15(2) to prohibit any language which is not yet an official language of the eu. i hope the commission can clear up this situation and understand my concern.
mr president, whenever there is a compromise which allows progress to be made, we should be happy about it, but i do not think that the compromise we have reached is such that we should die of a fit of happiness. we must be careful in the happiness we have. it is true that we have made progress, especially with regard to food labelling and safety, but we have fallen short on trans fats, for example, in the labelling obligation. what i do want to ask the commission is not to run out of time. that in a continent with such a large supply of food, with problems of over-nutrition, heart problems and overweight, the ban on adding trans fats to food must be accelerated and put forward as soon as possible, as denmark has done, as spain is doing and as australia has done. without delay and without waiting for more. the commitments will depend on how quickly we implement them, how clearly we develop them and how ambitious we are. let's not get caught up in the happiness attack for what we've done, because it's okay, but it's not for jumping. we must go further and be more precise, particularly in the matters i have indicated to you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr dagmar roth-behrendt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on legislation on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tses) and food and feed controls (2010/2249 (ini)) (a7-0195/2011).
vice-president of the commission. − we probably need to establish closer contacts here and look into this case more deeply. but, in the case you mention, this will not prohibit school bus services. we must take into account all details. the national authorities have their own decision-making mandate, enabling them to introduce stricter rules and to regulate this within this framework. but in reply to your question, this should not lead to the prohibition of school bus services. we are ready to look into this in greater detail if necessary.
vice-president of the commission. − mega-trucks is a hot topic and will remain so for a while. the maximum authorised weight and dimensions of vehicles for national and international road traffic are governed by eu legislation, namely directive 96/53/ec, which does not currently authorise the longer and heavier trucks referred to by the honourable member for international road transport. some stakeholders in the road industry argue that significantly heavier and longer trucks would bring efficiency gains. the commission needs to take into account all critical factors, including future traffic generation, facilitation of intermodal transport infrastructure capacity and upgrading and maintenance costs in its policy-making on the dimensions and weight of trucks. at present there is no uncontested evidence that the introduction of larger and heavier vehicles, through general acceptance of the european modular systems, would result in an overall reduction of energy consumption and emissions from the transport system as a whole. the commission will subject any proposal to amend current regulations to a thorough impact assessment, taking into account economic, social and environmental aspects. it nevertheless appears to the commission that there may be a good case for limited change to current dimensions in order to improve the aerodynamics, and thereby the fuel efficiency, of vehicles. limited changes may also be necessary to accommodate new standards of intermodal vehicles and to deal with electric vehicles and, perhaps, also journeys between adjoining countries which allow the use of longer trucks internally.
vice-president of the commission. − germany is a country where bigger trucks are allowed, so the position here is not so black and white. actually, you raised several issues on which i simply do not know the answer. these matters are much debated in technical circles too. construction is a key factor: if a truck is heavier but the burden for the axis is spread differently then the actual burden on the road can be less. so all the aspects of how a given model is constructed in terms of manoeuvring, etc. need to be examined carefully. i have seen contradictory reports and arguments from both sides. currently the commission has no final or fixed position. we are looking carefully at all aspects. these bigger trucks are used in nordic countries, where they are allowed and are not seen as a problem. at the same time in countries like austria people are extremely opposed to them. they are concerned that this will be a big problem in terms of road structure in complex areas such as the alps. we will not push for a radical decision that would provoke major opposition in society. we will listen to all arguments and then we will come up with a proposal. i cannot say what the efficiency gain will be because that depends very much on the various analyses and the construction of possible models.
vice-president of the commission. − this is very high on our agenda. the correct application of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 on air passenger rights must be ensured by the designated national enforcement bodies in the member states. they have to take all reasonable measures to ensure that the rights of passengers are fully respected. the commission’s task is to ensure that eu law is correctly implemented and enforced by the member states by constantly monitoring their activity. during the recent air traffic disruptions due to the grimsvoetn volcano, right from the start of the disruptions the national enforcement bodies and the commission services took a proactive approach, verifying with air carriers that they planned to put measures and procedures in place to help passengers in the event of disruption to flights, whenever this was necessary. furthermore last april the commission adopted a communication on the application of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 which identifies possible shortcomings of the regulation and proposes action to clarify and strengthen the enforcement of passenger rights. the commission also announced an impact assessment in view of a possible revision of the regulation, which would also cover enforcement issues. in this context all interested parties will be able to contribute to a public consultation scheduled for the autumn. in the meantime the parliament has announced its intention to carry out its own inquiry or own-initiative report. price indications while booking are subject to the price transparency rules in article 23 of regulation (ec) no 1008/2008 on common rules for the operation of air services in the community. the final price to be paid must at all times be indicated and shall include the applicable air fare as well as applicable taxes, charges, surcharges and fees which are unavoidable and unforeseeable at the time of publication. this also includes the so-called fuel surcharge that you mention. the commission is monitoring this important question very closely in close cooperation with the national authorities in charge of the enforcement of such measures in the member states. our services are also currently undertaking a deeper review into the matter, in the context of the so-called fitness check and with the help of an independent study, the result of which is expected later this year.
vice-president of the commission. − during my time as transport commissioner i have had three big disruptions in air traffic, and a fourth for cargo security as well, and we have definitely obtained a lot of experience during this time. the situation is not so bad. it was, of course, an extraordinary situation when the volcano erupted, and most airlines operated very responsibly. yes, there were airlines which tried to avoid and to evade their responsibility, but most airlines operated quite reasonably. most national enforcement bodies take this issue seriously – though yes, not all of them – and we monitor and try to enforce it, but this is in the hands of the national enforcement bodies. in the new regulations we will be more precise concerning extraordinary circumstances which can be a reason not to compensate. i think that overall the regulation works very well; there must certainly be some adjustment time for its correctives. air traffic is of course a huge issue. this summer we warned all member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that there will be no big delays in traffic, because we foresee very many places where the traffic will increase delays. this machinery tries to do its best and of course we try also from our side to facilitate this functioning. the legislation is quite advanced and there will be some accommodation. now we are opening the process of consultation, so it is for everybody to express their comments.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to propose that my time be used in two parts: the first four minutes for the presentation and the last two minutes for replying to the honourable members, if you do not mind. ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, mr president of the polish presidency, and welcome to this first evening debate on transport, i would like to say that between 2000 and 2010 we have achieved the objective we set ourselves of reducing the number of road deaths, which in 2000 was 50 000. we have not been able to reduce it by half, to 25 000, as planned, we have remained at 31 000, so the new objective we have just set ourselves for the period 2010-2020, to halve those still 31 000 road deaths, certainly requires us to take further measures, and important measures. the measure i am proposing today - which is the result of an agreement and a long history, beginning in 2008, on the basis of a commission proposal, which parliament welcomed very positively, because it gave us one more instrument, and indeed one more instrument, to pursue and improve precisely this objective of reducing the number of victims - was calculated to prevent at least 400 deaths every year, not to mention the number of injured. but in 2008, after our first reading, the report was stalled. you can imagine how many lives we have not been able to save in these three years of delay in the report and the implementation of this instrument. the truth is that i have been criticizing him every day, precisely because we have not been more diligent. it was not the responsibility of parliament, it was the responsibility of the council, which, with a blocking minority, did not accept the joint proposal of parliament and the commission. it is precisely with this idea of putting an end to the continuing flow of bloodshed in road safety that we tried - with the belgian and hungarian presidencies, whom i have to thank for doing everything possible and impossible to unblock and unblock this issue - and we succeeded in unblocking the matter, albeit by changing the legal basis. we needed unanimity in police cooperation and there was the problem of opting out, because three member states - the united kingdom, ireland and denmark - could decide to stay out of this new system for good. there were also a number of problems, limitations or conditions attached to a procedure which, in our first reading and in the commission's proposal, generated a complete system from the moment the offence was committed until the time the necessary sanction was imposed, and all this for four offences which at that time caused 75% of the fatalities: running a red light, driving at excessive speed, driving with a blood alcohol level above the prescribed limit and not wearing a seatbelt. however, in this new proposal with a new legal basis, we have managed to enter into an important negotiating atmosphere in which we have succeeded in unblocking the issue. a first step, a fundamental step towards achieving this, as has been appreciated by associations of victims and families of road victims, and also by associations of experts. we are now waiting for a procedural approach, such as correlation tables, which were skipped at the last minute, to block us again. i just want to bring to the attention of your honourable members the need not to block it.
mr president, improving road safety in europe and avoiding casualties requires more training for drivers, but also ending impunity for those who commit the most dangerous offences. there should be no borders to punish those who endanger their citizens by skipping traffic lights, abusing alcohol or drugs, not using seat belts or by skipping the limits when driving in states where they do not reside. that's what this initiative is guaranteeing with the transfer of data. but i also hope that the tables of correspondence will be included in this directive and i ask the council, like other colleagues, to make a special effort in this respect. i regret that there are exceptions in the united kingdom, ireland or denmark, and i hope that in the future we will all be aware that changing states while driving does not mean forgetting education or driving duties. and above all, the obligation to avoid casualties.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, just some factual remarks. first of all, opt-outs. no country has signalled that they will opt out. on the contrary, informal signs are that countries support this legislative act, so it is not being said that these three countries will opt out. this is a legal basis question. on conciliation: if people think that conciliation will be a solution and offer a better compromise than we achieved today, i am not so sure. as i said at the beginning, this is why i consider this compromise decision so important. yes, of course, there are a lot of details which can be improved and will be improved, but this is one of the first types of legislation involving cross-border law enforcement and this is a matter of sovereignty, sensitivity, or intelligence, whatever. it is a subsidiarity issue. this is why this was blocked but now we have a compromise and we have a clear understanding that we have at least some tools to enforce the rules and to fight traffic violations. this is why this is so important. one factual remark about the penalties. there is already a council framework decision on the mutual recognition of financial penalties, which also covers road traffic offences. so if you receive a penalty, especially after this new law, you will pay.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house! the debate was extremely interesting and it confirms the difference in views, but what unites all the speakers is the concern for road safety. and this is the most important objective we set ourselves when we work on the directive, which is an expression of concern for the safety of our citizens, for the safety of road users. it is very important that the compromise which has been so difficult to reach in the trilateral talks is brought to a happy end. i would like to stress once again that the convergence table is one of the points of contention between the council and the european parliament, but the polish presidency will seek agreement on this politically important issue. i want to assure you that we will try to resolve this issue horizontally. as regards the several doubts that have been raised, inter alia, in relation to the protection of personal data, i do not want to go into the technical aspects, but i would like to stress that article 7 of the cross-border enforcement directive relates to this very issue. that directive took into account the best possible data protection regime relating to the prüm decision as well as to council framework decision 2008/977/jha of 27 november 2008 on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation. i would also like to express my conviction that the three member states which will not in principle participate in the implementation of this directive, as has already been said by commissioner slim kallas, denmark, ireland and the united kingdom, will be able to decide to participate in this directive at a later stage, either through the opt-in option (in accordance with article 4 of protocol no 21 to the treaty on the functioning of the european union) in the case of ireland and the united kingdom, or through the international agreement provided for in point 13 of the directive in the case of denmark. finally, i would like to say that the equality aspect which was mentioned in today's debate is important and deserves to be put to the vote tomorrow on whether the compromise should be maintained. if the president will allow me, i will say one more thing: on 1 july poland took over the presidency of the european union and now serves all the member states, but on 1 july a law on road safety, on automatic speed recording, also came into force in poland. it's also a safety measure.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking all the honourable members for their words and, above all, for their cooperation, especially that of the alternative rapporteurs, but also that of the group coordinators, that of parliament's services, that of the committee on transport and tourism and that of the commission, in particular. and why not, since it has been of great help to the belgian and hungarian presidencies of the council. i agree that the first reading was full ambition, that is to say, we ran parliament and the commission together, but we were held back by a blocking minority in the council, which we know in this house and in the committee on transport and tourism, because they have blocked for years, and in some cases forever, some important files. in this case, we made an effort. we unlocked it. it is true that in this respect, pragmatically and because of the optimism which leads us to use all possible loopholes in road safety, we accepted the proposal of the belgian presidency - which i thanked - to try another way. try to move the council block. and we did it. the belgian presidency worked very well with us, and so did the hungarian presidency. and we did it. it's true it's a first step, but we were at zero, blocked. a first step. we have succeeded in improving data protection, we have succeeded in obliging the state of registration to provide information, we have succeeded in introducing consultation of victims' associations and experts, and we have also succeeded in obtaining a strong review clause, which the commission accepted and for which i am particularly grateful to the vice-president. and now i would just like to remind mrs savisaar-toomast, with all due respect, that i am sorry she did not stay after she had raised her reservation with us, that her group was able to adopt another transport report without correlation tables and that in this case i think they could try - and i ask them to try - to get this report out, which is not going to improve the quarrel with the council, because the council will still be able to use its blocking reservations in the future. and in the conciliation it's not going to be any better. i think that's an illusion that perhaps mrs savisaar-toomast's youth makes her think we can achieve it, but i think that's not going to be the case. i would therefore ask mrs savisaar-toomast and the liberal group to spare us the need to vote against the correlation tables amendment tomorrow. it will not improve anything and the victims, the victims' families and the citizens out there will not understand that, because of an interinstitutional complaint, we are stopping such an important instrument as this, which is a first but fundamental step in the right direction.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's security is not compromised by the threat of terrorism. the committee on transport and tourism therefore agreed by consensus to give me the mandate as rapporteur to have the report address a comprehensive view of civil aviation safety. in line with this mandate, the report covers protective scanners, the analysis of decisions taken on liquids, aerosols and gels, and security measures on cargo and mail. transport safety, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the main concerns in the fight against terrorism. regulation (ec) no 300/2008 currently describes the different aspects in which the points in this report are integrated. protection scanners: as set out in the explanatory memorandum, this report is based on a 2008 commission proposal for a regulation. this proposal - as you will recall - was rejected by parliament because it was not found to meet a number of requirements, such as respect for fundamental rights, health consequences or the protection of passenger data. the commission has therefore resolved - and i hope will continue to do so - all the doubts raised by parliament in the impact assessment, which i have identified and addressed in this report. as regards the protection of fundamental rights, the new generation of scanners meets all the requirements: human dignity, respect for private life, non-discrimination, guaranteeing a high level of protection of human health in the definition and implementation of all union policies and actions; all of them are enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the systems we have today are not the ones that the detractors of scanners often show in the news or in the newspapers. the systems proposed do not show the human body, but a standard figure, a doll, a photograph of the passenger as he or she is dressed or simply an ok in green, when the passenger passes without skipping the alarm. data protection: data protection, which is also under constant review, is ensured by new scanner technology. these allow for the guarantee that they will be destroyed automatically once the purposes for which they are collected have been fulfilled. there will be no more pictures, your honours. this is one of the basic consensus that the vast majority have agreed to, because it certainly affects privacy and privacy as a fundamental right that cannot be curtailed. health protection: the maximum guarantee has been agreed by parliament. ionizing radiation, because it is harmful, either because of its cumulative effects or because of its long-term effects, is overtaken by other technologies which do not affect the health of the passenger. parliament therefore sends a clear message and says no to the use of x-rays. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, protective scanners are not perfect but they are certainly more effective than those that simply detect metals. they add value and are used to detect dangerous objects and instruments that conventional detectors cannot. they constitute an instrument which provides measures proportionate to the risk they seek to avoid. they will be optional and not binding on states, but those who apply them will have to implement harmonised minimum standards for all. they will not be compulsory for travellers, but those who refuse to use them will be obliged to undergo alternative procedures at least as effective as protective scanners. as regards liquids, i will not refer to them because there will be a debate with the commissioner and there are already two commitments: 29 april 2011, which was not fulfilled - and we are waiting for an account to be given - and the guarantees that it will be fulfilled in 2013. the european civil aviation conference ensures that technology is in place to detect liquid explosives. the report therefore reaffirms that parliament's mandate is fulfilled if everything is in order. it is clear that the first part has not been fulfilled and we are therefore awaiting - i repeat - the commissioner's explanations. cargo and mail: the recent attacks on passenger aircraft have prompted the european union to develop a more ambitious plan and to act quickly to identify the additional measures needed. i support the idea that protection and control systems have to be proportionate and equivalent. goods carried on airplanes must be checked, especially if 70% of the cargo is carried on passenger airplanes. in this respect, i am grateful to all the groups for their support in raising the level of safety in the cargo i proposed. conclusions, mr president: all the matters covered in this report on aviation security are a response to a previous terrorist act, and therefore the european union's task in the years ahead is to seek to achieve security that prevents and avoids future attacks. i would like to thank everyone for their cooperation in making it possible for a very complex and difficult matter, which was rejected by parliament, to reach this plenary session today with a great deal of support and consensus thanks to the new attitude of the commission and the flexibility of the groups. i also thank the commission for its cooperation and dialogue. the commission has called parliament and the commission will receive the witness. the next steps are your responsibility. we await the commissioner's words.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to begin by wishing a speedy recovery to my colleague, mrs gesine meissner, who has been my group's alternative rapporteur on this report. an illness prevents him from summarizing here the great work he has done during these months. on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i would like to highlight six aspects of this legal report which are important to our group. firstly, we are talking about security measures and, as always, these pose a strain on the fundamental rights of individuals. we therefore want parliament to work with the commission and the council in regulating these matters. no more committee politics to legislate these issues. secondly, to say that security and fundamental rights are also the basic notes of the europe we want to build. only an approach at union level can ensure a uniform application of safety standards at all european airports. third, to say that body scanners associated with current equipment can improve the security of controls, provided they have some shared characteristics. safety must not endanger public freedoms or the health of users and workers. therefore, the use of x-rays is refused and the storage of images obtained from these controls is prohibited. the commission has also proposed that these should be sketchy and not reveal details of passengers' privacy other than those relevant to flight safety. fourthly, states and passengers should be able to choose between security scanners, but the latter should accept other types of alternative controls if they choose not to. the airport controls must also have better trained staff with a uniform code of conduct. the restriction on liquids in the cabin must be lifted by april 2013 at the latest, and i was pleased to hear the statement made by commissioner kallas. finally, the staff effort should also be applied to the cargo control departments. we must define risk priorities and ensure control of goods and baggage arriving from third countries at our airports.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on his rigorous work. the aim of the file is to maintain a high level of security at airports while guaranteeing the fundamental rights of citizens. air transport is a terrorist target, and security needs to be strengthened to protect people, infrastructure, cargo and mail. security scanners at airports are a useful tool in this regard. its inclusion among the control methods for detecting prohibited or dangerous elements is therefore necessary, but it requires a thorough prior assessment to determine which technology is the least harmful and what the level of non-accumulative emissions acceptable to health is. it is also necessary that such technology should ensure the protection of personal data and preserve the dignity of the person subjected to the test. i would remind you that member states may apply stricter security measures than those required by european legislation, and therefore have the power to introduce scanners at airports under their jurisdiction. it is therefore necessary for the community institutions to provide for common procedural rules on the criteria and means of detection. test information is an essential element of this instrument. airport staff shall be given appropriate training to enable them to adequately inform passengers about safety, voluntariness, alternatives and the removal of images. finally, i would like to stress that the refusal of any passenger to undergo the test does not make him a suspect and that the selection criteria for the scanning will be based exclusively on safety reasons, unrelated to any other issue such as race or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, religion, etc. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again.
mr. president, thank you for your understanding. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr luis de grandes, on his excellent report and, above all, on his ability to incorporate the proposals which were the most reasonable and which could improve or at least supplement the report. the truth is that we were beginning to be frightened to see scanners appearing in airports in an anarchic way, like mushrooms, and that it was absolutely urgent - and that was the position of parliament from the beginning - to give it a community framework which would set the conditions, without making it, therefore, absolutely obligatory. the health and privacy of both passengers and workers were paramount. i believe that in this respect your approaches and proposals respect and guarantee the main demands and demands of parliament. on the other hand, there is still one aspect, namely efficiency, which i hope we can improve as frequent travellers. however, in the face of such a thorough search as we suffer every day in airports, those of us who travel frequently, i certainly prefer a scanner, as long as it is safe and guarantees privacy.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for their comments and for this exchange of views. regarding liquids, i am deeply disappointed about what happened in april this year. of course this is a lesson for us, and also one for me personally and for the commission. what actually happened was that we had agreement more or less everywhere, despite some opposition from some airports and member states. however, the situation then suddenly started to escalate and member states took the opportunity to increase their security levels and actually to avoid this measure. we must consider what to do in 2013. one aspect which is a little more promising is the fact that, whereas in the past we did not have enough clear cooperation with the united states despite a great deal of contact, we have now signed a protocol with a view to cooperating. the united states has also committed itself to the 2013 deadline. of course there are many issues: money, testing of technology and so on. in relation to terrorist threats and aviation, one honourable member mentioned the fact that there are other threats as well: there have been the london and madrid bombings and attacks in shopping malls and elsewhere. however, according to the assessment of the competent authorities, aviation remains by far the most attractive target for terrorists. if you can create an accident with a big explosion in aviation, it is spectacular and will have major consequences. in the current situation, we have had the detroit incident, although in fact that was not an explosion; we have had an averted cargo attack; but we have had a major explosion in domodedovo airport in moscow. as the russian minister has told me, they now intend to introduce a 100% check at all airport entrances, including checks in metro stations. so when something really happens there is an immediate reaction. before the attack at domodedovo, all the authorities acted in strict accordance with the rules – they did what was asked of them – but of course an explosion in a cafeteria outside was not foreseen. there is no 100% security – 99.9% yes, but not 100%. we must therefore secure the front and ensure that terrorists cannot enter aeroplanes. with whatever technology we use, we must ensure that a person about whom there is some kind of suspicion, or about whom the security authorities have some doubts, cannot enter the plane. this is crystal clear. irrespective of the technology used, no one has a right to enter a plane if they do not pass the security checks. everybody must go through a security check. of course, security scanners are in use. some of you may have been in schiphol airport in amsterdam, where scanners are in use: they are very comfortable and there are no photos. i have also seen technology that involves photos or some kind of similar image. these systems are not very nice and we should definitely not accept them. this is another reason to have a harmonised approach and to avoid a situation in which airports and member states introduce different types of scanners with different rules. on behalf of the commission, i can assure you that we are definitely very interested in working out a harmonised approach and we greatly appreciate the report and the progress so far on finding common ground and a common understanding on this complicated issue. we will shortly put forward a legislative proposal for a harmonised approach.
the rapporteur. - mr president, in this case i shall try to be brief and follow your instructions. i thank you very much, commissioner, for your attitude and for your sensitivity to parliament's report. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i mean, i'm going to try to get that consensus until the last minute. mrs lichtenberger, we will accept your second amendment because i think it is favourable in the field of training. as for your first amendment, i will try not to have those reservations about the naming of scanners, because nobody confuses one with the other. i know that your intentions are good, but i would appreciate it if you would withdraw the amendment. if not, it's your right and i'll respect it. that's all there is to it. as for the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl group - i think it is necessary to make a small inroads into them - i am very sorry that i cannot accept the inspirational criteria of your amendments. these are amendments which are not substantive, and i sincerely believe that there is a latent intention to vote against them. i'm sorry about that. in any case, i do want to say solemnly to mr henin - and i am sorry he is not here - that in a democratic society there is no justification for any terrorist action. neither political nor non-political: terrorism must be rejected outright in a democratic society. as for the amendments by the ecr group - i am sorry that mrs foster is not here, who is always so kind - i think they are unnecessary, because what they intend to do with the profiles can be confusing. in paragraph 4, which we are also going to improve with a socialist amendment to include a greater emphasis on data protection, there is no need to talk about profiling because it can lead to confusion and make it appear that there is discrimination, when i am sure that no attempt will be made. we shall accept, and not just accept for consideration, the oral amendment of the socialist party because i think it is a good one and if parliament accepts it we shall vote in favour. and, for the rest, i think we will really fulfil the mandate that was given to us. commissioner, i think we've gotten this far, we've handed you the witness and i hope you're up to it. i am sure, because you are showing talent and courage, and i appreciate that you regret what happened on april 29 of this year. i know he is sincere and i hope that in 2013 we will meet all the objectives on the subject of liquids as we all intend.
mr president, if i am not mistaken, you are a pole who belongs to the minority of kashubia and perhaps for this double reason you can understand that i am speaking to you in italian, because i am not allowed to speak in catalan, which is the language of over ten million european citizens. poles and catalans are brothers in a way, because in 1939, the spanish fascist army called "poles" "catalan". because we too had been defeated by franco, as you had been defeated by hitler and stalin. and just as we were brothers in the worst defeat of the 20th century, we hope we can be brothers in the democracy and freedom of the 21st century. and in this sense we can work together for the rights of minorities and for catalonia, scotland or flanders, like poland and many others, to become new states of the european union.
mr president, the present crisis is the most serious since the european union has existed and the first since the creation of the euro. its complexity and depth force us to rethink the foundations of an economy and of a globalisation without control or accountability. it also strains the european social model and adds to the challenges of competitiveness, ageing and climate change. it will not be resolved spontaneously, not even on a national scale. it requires a political response and further determined and sustained action at european and international level. the creation of the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis demonstrates parliament's commitment to a democratic response to overcome a crisis that is not yet over. the berès report addresses sovereign debt problems, global imbalances and the construction of global governance, steps towards a new international monetary system, actions needed to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and criteria for rethinking the future of the european union. the common thread is that "unity makes strength". the european union cannot disappear when it is needed most, nor resign itself to irrelevance. citizens need to know that the european union will provide value for their future and member states need to know that it will support their reform processes. the european union must have a treasure to rely on, not rhetoric: a strong budget based on its own resources, the fight against tax evasion and the issuing of eurobonds. that is why i support the report, so that the european union can count in the world.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i will be very brief. i would like to thank the honourable members for having accepted my request, this time, to adopt this agreement as a matter of urgency at second reading, but above all i would like to convey to them the thanks of the associations of victims and relatives of victims of road accidents in europe, who have been waiting for this first step for more than three years, which is crucial to preventing hundreds more deaths each year. i am aware of the institutional generosity shown by the european parliament in this exceptional and unique gesture on a matter of vital importance for the proper application of european law, where the council has so far failed to show the necessary diligence and commitment. i therefore turn now to the presidency of the council to say that, having welcomed the positive indications from the new polish presidency on our just demand for the inclusion of the correlation tables, we hope and count on a rapid horizontal solution in both the council and the commission. i hope that the member states will ensure that this regulation is properly transposed and applied in the best interests of road safety and of all european citizens.
madam president, i have supported this report because it will improve the quality of food products and will also contribute to informed and responsible consumption. european consumers will know where the food we eat comes from, which is particularly important for meat and, even more so, for fish. in addition, it was mandatory to report on the nutritional properties of food. the price of food items is not the only important factor when shopping. spending money well means buying food that has been harvested, raised or fished sustainably and according to known standards, and it means being aware that spending a little more on foods that have less saturated fat, low salt or moderate sugar contributes to our health. the closing of the loop opened by this regulation therefore requires that we go further in the training that consumers need to take advantage of all the information that will be available to them. finally, i regret the lack of sensitivity to linguistic diversity in the report. euskera, catalan, galician and other languages also exist and are official in the shops where these new labels are to be read.
madam president, our motto should be: 'from speeches to deeds'. the 2020 agenda advocates equality to overcome the crisis. european companies have few women on their boards, although studies show that their presence brings innovation, management improvement and benefits to these companies. women are more educated than men and have better academic performance. however, men hold 90% of the board seats in publicly traded companies and 90% of board chairs. to balance these quotas, we need measures which have worked where they have worked, and the resolution adopted today will help to do that. i do not agree with the report's reference to competent and qualified women, because the small percentage of women who reach positions of responsibility are. and because do you know of any text in the world with this requirement for men, who occupy 90 and 97 percent of the quotas? are all of them competent and qualified? let's change the language and the paradigm if we want to achieve equality.
in writing. − in favour. in accordance with the convention implementing the schengen agreement of 14 june 1985, the decisions sch/com-ex (98) 56 and sch/com-ex (99) 14 concerning the compilation of a manual of travel documents enabling the crossing of external borders which may be endorsed with a visa. however, these decisions go back to the time of intergovernmental cooperation on schengen and need to be adapted to the eu’s current institutional and legal framework. the purpose of the list of travel documents is twofold: on the one hand it allows border control authorities to verify whether a given travel document is recognised for the purpose of crossing the external borders as set out in article 5 (1)(a) of regulation (ec) no 562/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 march 2006 establishing a community code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code); on the other hand it allows consular staff to verify whether member states recognise a given travel document for the purpose of affixing the visa sticker.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this initiative because the eu-wide provision of high-performance broadband will help to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, thereby boosting sustainable, inclusive and cohesive economic growth for the territory, job creation and competitiveness in europe. it will also encourage research and innovation so that all regions, cities, municipalities, social groups and individuals can benefit from them.
in writing. − in favour. very comprehensive (maybe overly so: it counts 77 paragraphs and it covers all aspects and all technologies) – even the impact of wireless technologies on health is included in para. 65. supports the commission – the core issue is the funding of the ngas (suggest an eu broadband deployment act to coordinate all the funds; funds can be equity funds, structural and cohesion funds, regional funds, state and private investments, eib), see part 3 ‘incentivising investment and competition’. sets ambitious targets for broadband coverage: 100% coverage delivered to all europeans by 2013 – at least 2 mbps in rural areas and much higher speed in other areas (para. 4) – note that the target in eu 2020 is 30 megabits by 2020. public funds are mentioned: broadband state aid framework, the nga recommendation, and the public-sector investments (para. h); the balance between private and public investments is well covered. the issue of net neutrality is included in para. 53. for information, stakeholders involved in the discussions include etno members (in particular at&t), ecta, beuc, and ses.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this initiative because of the content described in the title, that of the full commitment to a comprehensive approach to the protection of personal data in the european union, as well as the strengthening of the provisions already in force, such as directive 95/46/ec, the new principles and mechanisms that establish that more consistent and stronger data protection rules can be available in the new reality after the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights. in short, the guarantee of the fundamental rights of european citizens will be strengthened.
in writing. − in favour. this resolution: 1. strongly welcomes and supports the commission communication entitled ‘a comprehensive approach on personal data protection in the european union’ and its focus on strengthening existing arrangements, putting forward new principles and mechanisms and ensuring coherence and high standards of data protection in the new setting offered by the entry into force of the lisbon treaty (article 16 tfeu) and the now binding charter of fundamental rights, particularly its article 8. 2. emphasises that the standards and principles set out in directive 95/46/ec represent an ideal starting point and should be further elaborated, extended and enforced, as part of a modern data protection law.
in writing. − the purpose of the proposal is to recast the rules on general food labelling provisions. it consolidates and updates two areas of labelling legislation: the area of general food law covered by directive 2000/13/ec, and that of nutrition labelling covered by directive 90/496/eec. the dossier was affected by the extensive tabling of amendments at each stage of the process (up to 800) and two major groups within parliament: the rapporteur (partly supported by ecr) and the ‘opposition’ in form of s&d, greens/efa, gue and partly alde. ms sommer’s draft report was substantially improved by parliament. we supported the report both in plenary first reading and in envi second reading, as several of our key demands had been incorporated. the council common position partly showed steps towards the parliament position (e.g. country of origin), and, from a green perspective, was better than the parliament position on some issues (e.g. alcohol). the only ‘but’ is the inclusion of a text that says that member states may stipulate that the particulars shall be given in one or more languages from among the official languages of the union, which puts the non-official languages at risk.
in writing. − my vote against this report is due to one reason: that my language, catalan, which is spoken by 8 million europeans, is not well protected and will not be able to be used exclusively in food labelling if spain decides so under article 15(2). taking into account that spain has not defended the status of catalan in the eu institutions and the main parties of spain have repeatedly voted against the inclusion of amendments allowing the normal use of catalan in food labelling, there is little hope that catalan will be ever become a fully fledged official eu language. i understand that this is a very important report, but for me and my constituency there are some red lines that cannot be crossed.
in writing. − in favour. according to the rapporteur, this text should bring: a new technical annex which replaces the reference to the decision 2008/616/jha on the prüm convention. this new annex should be modified via the delegated acts procedure. some clarifications are introduced on the provisions on the software applications and on the information letter. the reporting obligations to be respected by member states should be reinforced with regard to timing and content. elements of the first reading of the parliament are reintroduced concerning personal data protection (article 7). the obligation to inform drivers is also reinforced, in line with the first reading of the parliament. the article 9 on the revision of the directive is reinforced and extended to elements other than the scope. it asks for a revision of the enforcement procedures, the harmonisation of traffic rules and the control procedures, as described in a second new annex retaining the main elements of the guidelines proposed by the parliament in its first reading.
in writing. - i voted in favour of refusing to approve the draft council regulation, taking into account that the instruments must be amended after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon and that the council has not shown the will to negotiate the lisbon package in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. moreover, its proposal was aimed at reducing the powers of parliament. the situation is unacceptable and i have therefore adopted the above-mentioned position.
in writing. − in favour. tfeu article 312 specifies that the mff regulation shall be adopted by council after obtaining the consent of the european parliament. tfeu 312(5) requires the three institutions to work together to find a solution ‘throughout the procedure leading to the adoption of the financial framework’ i.e. the consent procedure regarding the mff regulation is based on the assumption of prior negotiation. the european parliament set out its views on the commission proposal clearly in oral questions of 20 may 2010 and in its resolution of 22 september 2010. the council adopted its proposal on 21 december 2010 and asked the european parliament for consent to its proposal on 18 january 2011 without entering into any negotiations with the european parliament with a view to agreeing a common position.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because of the need to give a clear signal to the ec in relation to its work programme in view of the crisis situation we are experiencing. it is essential that the eu creates new own resources to help achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − abstention. we lost some key amendments (for instance, those related to liability for nuclear plants). we also regret delays in initiatives in field employment and social affairs, but we also had some good news, especially related to some amendments on hr.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this initiative, supporting, especially in view of the current protein deficit in the eu, the proposal to lift the ban on feeding processed animal protein to non-ruminant animals, provided that it applies only to non-herbivorous animals and with all the guarantees.
in writing. − against. the fact that paragraph 7 of the original text was kept (despite our negative vote) made some of us vote against in the final vote. the text says: ‘supports – particularly in the light of the existing protein deficit in the eu – the commission proposal to lift the provisions banning the feeding of processed animal proteins to non-ruminants, provided that this applies to non-herbivores only, and that: ...’
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament (ep) today adopted a report on the use of body scanners in airports (grandes report). the greens welcomed the outcome, after green proposals calling for stricter conditions on the use of body scanners were adopted, notably the exclusion of x-ray technology. the ep has today made it clear that citizens’ interests must come first in considerations on the use of controversial body scanning technology. the ep wants to ensure that member states will not be obliged to introduce body scanners. where they decide to use this technology, the ep has made clear this should only be done under restricted conditions: only for use in airports, and under the condition that appropriate rules are in place to safeguard the health and fundamental rights of passengers. there are serious concerns about the potential impacts of the widespread use of body scanners – in airports and beyond – both in terms of privacy and public health, and these cannot be ignored.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament has sent a clear message to businesses and member state governments on the need to increase the share of women in leading positions. meps have called on the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal on women in business leadership by 2012 with binding targets and quotas, in case steps taken by companies and member states do not work. if business believes in self-regulation, they will have to hurry up and prove that it is effective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which supports the need for future research into a eurobond system, the europe 2020 strategy, the possible financing of resources and the search for own resources and a tax system to combat fraud and tax evasion. the eu needs a budget of adequate size to accommodate the euro in a sustainable way.
in writing. − i voted in favour. by decision of 7 october 2009, the european parliament set up a special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis (cris). on 20 october 2010 the european parliament adopted its resolution on the financial, economic and social crisis: recommendations concerning the measures and initiatives to be taken based on the mid-term report of the cris committee adopted in committee on 29 september 2010. but bringing the special committee’s mandate to an end in the middle of the financial, economic and social turmoil would have given the impression that the european parliament considered the crisis as resolved, while financial markets were far from being stabilised and citizens and enterprises still struggling with increasing economic and social threats. the financial, economic and social crisis of the years 2007-2009 was fundamentally challenging the current governance system of the economic and monetary union. the eu was witnessing the most serious economic and social crisis in the eu since it was established and an unprecedented and harsh threat to the stability of the euro with severe consequences for the economic and social stability and the cohesion in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i think that its comprehensiveness makes it a very useful tool for europe to envisage a way out of the crisis. i would like to stress my vote in favour of an increase in the eu’s budget to reach 5-10% of the eu’s gdp and thereby make progress in the political and economic integration of the continent. i think that the foreign and defence policy should be run by the eu as a whole.
in writing. − the economic crisis in the eu and the decline in its global competitiveness are rooted in two key aspects: excessive national budget deficits in the member states and uneven internal competition. the eu has not met its own criteria for budgetary discipline; unequal direct payments to farmers and an incomplete cohesion policy, which has failed to close the significant economic and social gaps between member states in 12 years, are the first challenges to be overcome if sustainable development and a balanced increase in the well-being of people are to be achieved across the eu. the report makes a number of important proposals, including the containment of member states' budget deficits, the monitoring of financial transactions and support for smes. however, it places too much emphasis on the 'europeanization' of financial and economic policies, including the harmonisation of tax systems across the eu, which would deprive latvia not only of the ability to decide on these processes individually, but also deprive it of one of the main advantages of its tax policy attracting new investment. the rapporteur's proposal to increase the eu budget to a level corresponding to 5-10% of eu gdp, concentrating its revenues on vat and increased contributions from member states, which would not improve the economic situation in the eu but would, on the contrary, deepen the disparities between member states and impose a disproportionate burden on the smallest and most affected countries by the economic crisis, is also unacceptable. for these reasons, i voted against the report.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, the last time i spoke in this parliament in early may, i said that statements should, and could, be made but that the priority was action. you will remember that i announced my intention to establish a european union office in benghazi. the european union flag now flies above the courthouse in the newly-named freedom square: a symbol not just of our solidarity with its people, but of our practical commitment. the office is now up and running and experts are arriving each week, working to see how we can support the security needs of the people and build the capacity of civil society. last week my team was in new york, coordinating our work on libya with the un. outside the courthouse in freedom square, i met some of the people who have been bringing democracy to life in libya. they thanked me, they thanked you and they thanked the european union. they know that we will stay with them over time. today i am sure you join me in saluting again the enormous courage of the libyan people, whether in benghazi, misrata, the western mountains, tripoli or in the south. we have stepped up sanctions to stop arms and money reaching the regime. we have provided almost eur 140 million of humanitarian assistance to those most in need. we continue to work for a political resolution to the conflict, in the contact group – which will meet in istanbul this week – and in the cairo group, where at our instigation we continue to work with the un secretary general and the special envoy, mr al khatib, the arab league, the african union and the organisation of the islamic cooperation, where we prepare for the days, weeks and months after gaddafi leaves.actions must be rooted in strategy. the eu was the first to offer a serious response to the arab spring, with our partnership communication in march 2011. two months later, we launched a new and ambitious european neighbourhood policy. i am delighted to have stefan füle with me today – my close and trusted partner in conceiving this new policy and on ensuring delivery on our promises. you know the core principles of the policy: mutual accountability; individual approaches to individual countries depending on circumstances and aspirations and offering more support for more reform. in stefan’s words: ‘more for more’. it has financial backing to match, in the form of an extra eur 1.2 billion for the next two years, on top of the eur 5.7 billion already pledged – so, nearly eur 7 billion. to this we should add a sum in the region of eur 7-8 billion, the result of the concerted efforts i initiated to unlock new investment funds from the european investment bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development. the goal is clear: the promotion of what i call ‘deep and sustainable democracy’ and – with it – economic prosperity. we know full well that democracy is hollow without food, safety, and jobs. so now is the time for all of us – for the institutions and the member states – to deliver on those shared objectives. beyond the new policy, i have taken two further regional initiatives since we last met. first, to enhance our effectiveness, presence and visibility, i have appointed an eu special representative for the southern mediterranean: bernardino león. his task will be to assist us in strengthening the eu’s political influence in the region – in dialogue with governments, civil society and international organisations – and to cooperate closely with the european parliament. second, i have established a task force to draw together our work and bring in the european investment bank, the ebrd, other international financial institutions and other international partners, to turn commitments into reality, to synchronise and work closely together. that reality is about the democracy and the economy we wish to see on the ground. in tunisia and egypt we see the evidence of the economic upheavals of the last months. when i was in egypt a few days ago, i talked to shopkeepers, to people in the streets and to people running hotels. all tell me the same story: that revenues in tourism and foreign direct investment have fallen and that they need support to revive and sustain the economy. that is why, for instance, we are supporting a major egyptian social housing initiative, and why we are launching a major programme to support the poorest areas in the greater cairo region, as well as a eur 20 million programme to support egyptian civil society. we are ready to help egypt reform its security sector, and we have offered eu election observation and assistance and support for democracy. i talked with deputy prime minister el gamal, who is leading the electoral process and the drafting of the constitution. an eminent lawyer, it falls to him to sort out a constitution that, in my words, will be the ‘guardian for the people’. similarly, in tunisia, i met with foreign minister kefi on friday. support for civil society and for the preparation of october’s constituent assembly elections is well under way. we have been asked to deploy an election observation mission and will do so. security reform and regional development programmes are also in motion. the government in tunisia, meanwhile, advances its own reform agenda. we applaud the consensus that was reached on the date for the elections and the fact that the principle of male-female parity for the lists of candidates has been retained. i am concerned that the voice of women should continue to be heard and their engagement certain. there is a fear, expressed to me, that, having taken part in their revolutions, their place in their future is not guaranteed. we need to support them: practically, by offering our resources, and politically by making it clear that we expect to see their engagement. a few weeks ago we funded a conference with un women in tunisia to bring together women across the region to consult and gain strength from each other. there is of course more to do – and this morning i have issued a statement of concern on the recent arrests of women journalists, artists and women’s rights defenders in iran. but perhaps our greatest concern is for the people of syria, who are denied the right to play their part in the charting their country’s future. what began as small local demonstrations against corruption in the local communities has become a national outpouring, and it has been met with violence and repression. yesterday in homa 1l people died, adding to the total of over 1500 civilians and 350 security personnel who have lost their lives. ten thousand people have been detained. we condemn without reservation those acts of violence and repression. since we last met, i have increased our sanctions twice. i have continued to make our voice heard, worked with our international partners and sought action at the security council with the objective of sending a single message: to stop the violence, create the dialogue, and prepare for change. president assad’s promises of reform and dialogue remain weak. just recently he announced that a committee will meet to prepare the framework for a dialogue. but let us be clear: any dialogue has to be inclusive, and that means the opposition taking part and all participating without fear. our eu delegation remains on the ground in damascus, meeting every day with individuals and groups, working with other representatives and sending out our messages. our delegation in ankara has been visiting the refugees who have arrived over the border in turkey in their thousands. i have been in close touch with foreign minister davotoglu of turkey to offer support in the future, should they need that, and to discuss with him the political situation. that instability in syria has echoes in lebanon. we are following the indictments of the special tribunal and must now carry forward its work. that brings us to the search for peace in the middle east, between israel and palestine. the changes in the surrounding neighbourhood, the speech of president obama in may, the moves towards palestinian reconciliation, the approaching un general assembly: all those bring a renewed focus on the possibility of talks and a solution. i have worked tirelessly for this possibility – working closely with president abbas, prime minister fayyad and prime minister netanyahu and with many others in the region, with our quartet partners and with the arab countries – to look for a strong and ambitious consensus, in which the eu plays the leading role this parliament wishes us to play. the un, the us and russia responded to my letter requesting a quartet meeting, which will take place in washington on monday. that will build on the process that began with the quartet meeting in munich which i chaired in munich earlier this year. since then, the envoys have met intensively and, for the first time, with the negotiators from both sides. i do not underestimate the challenge, but my objective is absolutely clear: to try to find a way to adopt a statement next week that will help the israelis and palestinians to bridge the gap and allow for a return to the negotiating table. many look to september and the prospects for a resolution. we do not yet know what a un resolution might say and what reaction it might bring. but i am clear that my energies should focus on using this time to get the talks moving, and, on that, the european union is united. we have a strong position from which to move forward, based on the council conclusions, a united position. i also understand very well the concerns for the people of gaza, having visited twice and seen the situation for myself. i have consistently stressed the need for the crossings to open, to provide what people need, and to ensure the security that israel needs. it is there that our energies should lie. i am encouraged that, having spoken to the prime minister of israel in the last few days, meetings are now taking place on the ground. but i do not underestimate the fact that there is much more to do. i thank greece for its offer to route humanitarian aid to gaza, in coordination with the un. i now want to turn to two kingdoms, morocco and jordan, where the eu supports and encourages the strong commitment to reform. on 12 june 2011, king abdullah of jordan outlined ambitious reform proposals concerning political parties and the electoral process. i have been in regular contact with foreign minister nasser judeh with regard to this reform agenda, most recently during my last visit to jordan two weeks ago. finally, this past weekend, there was good news from morocco, with a referendum endorsing the new constitution on saturday. the reforms proposed are a significant response to the legitimate aspirations of the moroccan people. i now hope that moroccan citizens will remain at the centre of the implementation process, and that the dialogue will now widen and strengthen. we are ready to give morocco full support in this endeavour. in algeria, the state of emergency has been lifted, and the president’s promises of reform now need to become action – something i raised with foreign minister medelci recently when we met at the eu-algeria association council. in bahrain, we have continued to express concern at the persistence of human rights violations. honourable members will remember that i discussed this with the king of bahrain in the gulf a few weeks ago. we see trials lacking in due process, the handing down of death sentences and the disgraceful treatment of doctors who have tried to help those in need. there may be some steps in the right direction. i saw that an independent international commission of inquiry into the events of the past few months has now been established. that is in response, in part, to the calls that we have made. but we need to remain vocal and strong in order that the national dialogue can finally get under way. finally, i turn to yemen. crippled by political stalemate and worsening humanitarian and economic conditions, the only way forward – as i discussed with the president before he was injured, and as we continue to send messages from our delegation – is a truly inclusive political transition, in line with what the gulf cooperation council have put forward in their initiative. we will continue to work closely with our partners, with the united states and with the council, to try to unblock the situation and find a solution. as president saleh begins to recover, he must transfer power and follow through on his commitment to the transition.we have made it clear that we are ready, alongside our international partners, to provide further humanitarian, political and practical support. but i do not need to tell honourable members just how difficult the situation is in yemen and how concerned and alarmed we are by events on the ground. we are also ready to help prepare for elections and to establish a working parliament there. but there is no question that, if yemen is to move forward, that transition has to begin now. i would like to close by thanking this parliament for its steadfast support for the efforts to safeguard and promote these fundamental democratic values, rights and freedoms. honourable members, this parliament is unique in what it can offer those in search of democracy. you are the representatives of democracy: you demonstrate the power of the citizen, and the qualities of open debate and freedom of expression. many of you know only too well the challenges of building democracy, fighting for causes and working for people. you have much to offer the people that i have met all over the region who long for greater dialogue and for the opportunity to meet with as many of you as they can. in this way, they can find out some of the practical ways in which democracy has taken root in your countries and in this european union, and how you have overcome the challenges. i know that you will be generous in your support for those who are finding their own path to democracy and their own future. as it was put to me in benhgazi by one of the many young people i met, a young man who had been imprisoned by gaddafi for eight years as a political prisoner: ‘we want what you have: democracy as everyday life’. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, they say that when the famous thinker ortega y gasset was asked how far he had to take events to write history, he said: a distance at which you cannot appreciate the profile of cleopatra's nose. i bring up this anecdote, mrs ashton, not because egypt is a country affected by the arab spring, but because we are living in the european union at a historic crossroads: lack of confidence in our project, debt crisis, questioning of the fundamental achievements best valued by our citizens - such as the schengen area - and doubts about the capacity of nato. however, in the last two and a half years we have seen tangible progress: her own functions as high representative/vice-president of the commission and president of the foreign affairs council, the birth of the european external action service and the joint communication on the renewed neighbourhood policy. you said yesterday - and i share your opinion - that our neighbours will always be there. the question is, what about us? will we live up to the circumstances? will we live up to the expectations of our citizens, who see foreign policy as a telltale thermometer of the state of the european union? can we effectively accompany these transition processes in the countries which are the subject of the resolution we shall be adopting tomorrow? we're betting plainly, mrs ashton, that's why. we believe and wish you success in your work, but for that you must act with the highest profile. not physical profile, as in ortega's answer, but political profile, with special emphasis on finding the greatest common denominator and not the least common multiple.
mr president, mrs ashton, i share your view that the european union must give priority attention to the southern neighbourhood, which is going through a period of extraordinary change. i am very pleased that the recent referendum in morocco has approved the reforms promoted by king mohammed vi. it would be good if the changes at constitutional level were accompanied by economic and social reforms to reduce inequalities. contrary to what is happening in morocco, we are getting bad news from syria, and unfortunately the end of the gaddafi regime in libya has not yet been achieved. we must remain involved in these processes, and also in egypt and tunisia. it is very important that we follow the changes taking place in the region and we must ensure that the values of freedom, justice, democracy and respect for human rights, including freedom of conscience and religion, and also gender equality, prevail. positive conditionality, or what is the same thing, the strategy of more for more, should help this, as well as intensify relations with civil society. ladies and gentlemen, i'm finished. i also hope that the union for the mediterranean will finally be able to act after a period of paralysis. in addition, since yesterday it has a new secretary-general, to whom i wish success in his complex management. i hope that the projects identified three years ago can be put into effect and thus help to improve the economy in the mediterranean countries.
mr president, congratulations to mrs ashton, because the initiatives you announced in the last debate have been brought to fruition in a coherent strategic framework, ranging from the reform of the neighbourhood policy to real diplomacy on the ground, some of which you have already undertaken and of which i would like to highlight the appointment of your special envoy for the mediterranean, mr bernardino león, who has twenty years of active diplomatic activity in the area, his backing and support. i would therefore like to acknowledge the efforts made by you and your team, and by you too, commissioner füle, to adapt foreign policy to the new situation, to support with determination and respect the changes in the arab world, and i hope that the member states will accompany you on this path. for decades, the european union's approach to the mediterranean has been criticized for lacking the political will and the means to achieve its stated goals of peace, stability and prosperity. there is now political will and there are also means to support these reforms, because without economic reforms political reforms cannot be carried out. in the committee on foreign affairs we have supported these new funds for the mediterranean, but they must be allocated without detriment to other equally important dimensions of the european union's foreign policy. and in the context of conditionality, i think it is fair to recognise the peaceful reforms undertaken in morocco, jordan and algeria. in morocco, in addition to the referendum, we must note the release of 190 political prisoners, almost all of them islamists, but also some sahrawi human rights defenders. and of course, we should support turkey for its role in the syrian refugee crisis and take into account its capacity to engage with its neighbors, including iran, and the political and socioeconomic model it represents for many of the arab countries in transition. there are dictators who cling to power despite the risks of social fracture and even civil war. there will be no other scenario for syria like libya and we understand and share... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall refer to the case of libya in particular. of all the maghreb countries, i find the situation in libya particularly worrying, since it is at the doorstep of europe and has abundant oil reserves. we've been at war for a long time and the situation seems to be stagnant. i believe that the european union must do everything possible to achieve two objectives: that colonel gaddafi leaves the country and also that libya enjoys a stable situation and becomes a democratic state, and does not run the risk of becoming a failed state into which aqim can infiltrate, which would be a very dangerous and worrying situation for europe. in addition, an ungovernable state, the mass return of migrants to their countries of origin and, above all, of armed tuaregs, could provoke a conflict situation in neighbouring countries. libya is an arab state, but it is first and foremost an african state and i think it is very important to take account of the views of the neighbouring sahel states on the situation in that country. if we are not able to get gaddafi out and end this war, maybe these countries have proposals that we should listen to.
mr tőkés, i am sorry to interrupt this romantic scene, but you have the floor. you may resume afterwards but for the moment you must take the floor! do not worry, mr tőkés, we are all human.
mr president, i am very sorry, i just wanted to make a correction. my colleague listening to my speech in english caught my attention because one of my sentences may have been interpreted incorrectly. i just wanted to repeat this sentence: ‘russia is providing armenia with weapons and with military training as well’. everything else was correctly interpreted.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i will be reasonably brief because i think so much has been well covered in the contributions which have been made. the first thing to say is that i agree that it is time for me to go to the region. i would already have gone but for the number of issues that i have been dealing with in the recent weeks; however, it was a priority for me to send miroslav lajčák to ensure that we were sending the right messages. we are engaged in discussions with the foreign ministers of both parties and with the chairs of the minsk group. the second thing i wanted to say was that we are very happy to play a stronger role. france is very keen to continue in its present role and feels it has much more to contribute, so our role is to support our member state in its work and to make sure that we are able to offer our contribution as appropriate, and we will continue to do that. i agree with what has been said by honourable members that it is important to engage not only with the parties but also in the work we are doing on the ground, and that is why i mentioned earlier the contributions we are trying to make in people-to-people contacts. as honourable members have said, this is not really a frozen conflict; it is certainly warming up and a conflict which we are right to be extremely concerned about. i agree with what was said about the level of trust being extremely low. this is a very timely debate and i thank you for it, because we in the external action service are well aware that we need to focus attention on this area and work closely on it with paris, as well as ensuring that we collaborate with the other members of the minsk group. the reason for getting a new special representative is also to be able to take this forward with much more vigour and much more effort than we are able to provide with all of the other issues that are currently before us. so thank you again and i look forward to continuing this discussion.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the preparations for the russian state duma elections in december.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, this is a very important subject, so we have a prepared statement in which we would like clearly to announce that free movement is a defining principle of the european union. it is one of the most tangible and successful achievements of the european project. an area without internal border controls is central to the success of the single market and europe’s continued efforts to boost growth. we must ensure that the reintroduction of internal border controls by member states does not erode the freedom of movement and impede the realisation of the european union’s greatest achievements. attacking free movement jeopardises the internal market, solidarity among europeans and ultimately the european project. the european council agreed that there is a need for an eu-based mechanism to respond to exceptional circumstances which might put at risk the overall functioning of schengen cooperation. we are studying this idea, but let me be very clear: any such mechanism would need to operate in a way which does not endanger the principle of the free movement of persons. beyond such a mechanism, a series of measures could be envisaged at eu level to assist a member state facing heavy pressure at the external borders. these would include inspection visits and technical and financial support, including the participation of frontex. the commission is looking into how these support measures can be put forward. in the framework of this eu-based mechanism, a safeguard clause could be envisaged as a very last resort, allowing the exceptional reintroduction of internal border controls in a truly critical situation for a strictly limited period, geographically limited and for a minimal period of time where a member state fails to fulfil its obligations under schengen rules. the european union works on the basis of mutual trust, solidarity and responsibility. as such, establishing a coordinated, eu-based response would allow all european interests to be taken into account and limit unilateral initiatives by member states to reintroduce internal borders. the commission intends to take up the invitation from the european council to submit a proposal for such a mechanism together with the updated proposal on the schengen evaluation in september. given the crucial importance of free movement for the eu and its future, the commission strongly believes that the proposal for the mechanism should be based on article 77 of the tfeu. in this way, proposals will be subject to the ordinary legislative procedure, thus ensuring the full involvement of parliament, on an equal footing with the council. finally, a word on the topical issue of controls at the danish borders. the commission has conveyed to denmark its grave concerns concerning the respect of treaty freedoms and of the schengen acquis. since then, intensive and constructive contacts between the commission services and denmark have been taking place on a daily basis and at different levels. we will assess in detail the recent measures introduced by the danish authorities. indeed, the commission needs to know how the danish authorities will conduct checks at the border so that it can assess whether they are in compliance with the eu rules on free movement of goods, services and persons. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the free movement of people, goods and services is a central piece of the european construction and is guaranteed by the treaties that member states have ratified. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, will do its outmost to ensure that this is respected all over europe.
the european union has a duty to ensure that the schengen agreement is respected and that the schengen acquis is respected. and that is a context in which talk of changing schengen must inevitably be read as a wrong signal, in the wrong direction. i would therefore like to reiterate, in the time available to me, that the work of this parliament must first of all be to ensure that schengen is not reduced or curtailed, but strengthened. secondly, the problem in europe is not to re-establish internal borders but to ensure the common management of external borders, which is what the treaty of lisbon wants. thirdly, that the work of this parliament must complete the asylum package and the immigration package, and give substance, with the council, to the solidarity clause within the european union, which is also included in the treaty of lisbon. and of course we must ensure the full involvement and participation of the european parliament, in accordance with the codecision procedure provided for in article 77 of the lisbon treaty. that will be the best way to honour the area of freedom, security and justice and the objectives of the lisbon treaty, and to ensure that we do not take a single step backwards in guaranteeing and improving the free movement of persons.
mr president, schengen is a milestone in the construction of the area of freedom, security and justice. freedom of movement is also a fundamental pillar of the union, enshrined in article 45 of our charter of fundamental rights, and must be preserved and protected. we need more europe, not less europe. limiting the schengen agreement is not the answer. what we must do is to overcome, once and for all, the reluctance of some states to move forward in the field of immigration. the european union has the means to do so, but it lacks the political will. we can and must strengthen the mechanisms for controlling the external borders, improve and equip the capabilities and means of frontex, promote the creation and launching of eurosur, promote the implementation of the second generation schengen information system and the visa information system, encourage cooperation and the exchange of information between border, police, judicial and customs services, and move decisively towards the construction of a common policy on immigration, asylum and visas, with special regard to cooperation agreements with third countries. the action of states in the field of immigration should be inspired by article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, by providing solidarity assistance to those others who, by reason of their geographical situation, are forced to face extraordinary flows of irregular immigrants or applicants for international protection. the responsibility in this respect must be shared, mr president. i should like to remind you that the reintroduction of border and internal controls for reasons not covered by articles 23, 24 and 25 of the schengen code is illegal and seriously violates the provisions of article 77 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the community-wide evaluation mechanism proposed by the commission should be the only instrument, extraordinary and temporary.
madam president, the reality: 30 million people are malnourished and 79 million are poor; the drama: a court decision; the shame: that we allow this. the european parliament must make its unanimous and powerful voice heard. it is an occasion for us to demonstrate our commitment to the weakest. we must make the distinction between selfish rhetoric and true solidarity. we, madam president, must make it possible for the council to allow the blocking minority to be eliminated. we wholeheartedly appeal to the solidarity 'committed yesterday in this house' of the president-in-office of the council, of the polish presidency. ladies and gentlemen, parliament cannot abandon millions of people, the poorest of the poor, those who suffer most from the critical consequences of the crisis. we are talking about a budget heading going from 500 million to 113 million euros, we are talking about a reduction equivalent to 63%. parliament, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, must in one hour speak out unequivocally and say that, whatever the outcome of a court decision, the essence of the european union, which is solidarity, resides here, in this house, in the house of the people and of the peoples of europe.
madam president, madam commissioner, the judgment of the court of justice of the european union has dealt a severe blow to the european food aid programme for the most deprived. the judgment reduces from 500 million to just 113 million euros the money earmarked for food purchases that social entities can distribute next year. solidarity with the most deprived and the fight against social exclusion are cornerstones of the union and the europe 2020 strategy. that is why, at a time of economic crisis such as the present one and in view of our own commitments, this programme is all the more essential. we cannot forget those more than 18 million people without resources who benefit directly from this programme and therefore we cannot allow this ruling to end european aid. i therefore ask both the commission and the council to examine all the possibilities for this programme to continue, to seek other sources of supply or to replace the programme with another which will allow the needs of these people to be met. i ask you to do so urgently, because this judgment comes at the worst possible time, because we are facing a worrying situation because of the importance of this programme in the lives of more and more people who do not have the resources to buy food. i ask you to look quickly for a temporary solution, while you work on a permanent solution, a new program that can continue to help those who need it most.
madam president, in the last few days i have received, as i am sure many of you have, numerous urgent messages from many banks. but they're banks that don't speculate, they're banks that don't invest in wars, they're banks that help people survive. it would be outrageous - and indeed it is already outrageous - if the european union were able to save certain banks which are engaged in such speculative and investment activities and we were unable to help those banks which are precisely designed to help 13 million people to survive on a daily basis. we cannot afford that as members of parliament and i hope that not only today's vote but also the polish presidency will resolve the problem of the food programme so that this debate we have today will simply be an anecdote. it would be outrageous to 'insist' on the rescue of the banks and the financial sector on the one hand and on the other hand to prevent us from solving the problem of basic aid.
madam president, the treaty of lisbon gives this parliament the power to initiate a reform of the electoral act and that is why we have to do it. we must do so because, in addition, there will shortly be a new distribution of seats in the european parliament with the entry of croatia. the report by mr duff, whom i congratulate on his work, is therefore inserted in this line. the electoral register, as you know, is from 1976. it has been a long time since then, and therefore it must be improved. the debate we are having today is probably centred on the pan-european list, and i say pan-european, because my group has tabled an amendment to that effect which we shall be voting for today, all the more so in honour of the man who used the term 'paneuropa', the recently deceased archduke otto of habsburg. the pan-european list seems to raise serious doubts. some are telling us, "it's too soon". but i am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that on 8 may 1950 some councillor told chancellor adenauer or minister schuman: 'minister, chancellor, it is too early to make a franco-german declaration, putting coal and steel together'. for conservatives, it's always too soon. for those who don't want anything to change, it's always too soon. for those of us who are committed to progress, who want europe to move forward, we want to dream big, mr president. one of william faulkner's characters said in a very glorious way: "you have to have dreams like mountains so that, wherever you are, you can see them and pursue them". the transnational, pan-european list is part of that line of dream, of ideal, of poetry, of struggle. mr president, the epp group's style is to have the widest possible consensus. we'll find the consensus possible to bring him here. but, as paul valéry said of every poem, "it is never finished, it is only abandoned". we left today, but we will be back, madam president.
madam president, mr kožušník, who is no longer here, said of my speech that i was in the mountains. maybe, but i prefer to be in the mountains than to be in the past. mon amie mme auconie, tout comme m. kožušník d'ailleurs, a dit qu'elle avait des difficultés à expliquer à ses concitoyens pourquoi nous nous occupions des questions institutionnelles et non pas des vraies questions. c'est un français, jean monnet, qui nous a expliqué qu'il fallait des institutions pour faire de la politique. madame, aujourd'hui, avant ce débat, nous en avons tenu un autre: scheme for food distribution to the most deprived persons in the union; je tiens à dire qu'avec de l'intelligence et du talent, on peut tout faire. finalement, s'agissant du fait que la liste transeuropéenne jouerait contre les petits états, il faut rappeler que nous avons eu comme présidents de la commission gaston thorn et jacques santer; quant à m. juncker, il préside l'eurogroupe. viennent-ils d'un grand pays?
mr president, it is our duty to work for human rights and democracy, as founding values of the union which we must promote universally. these include equality and non-discrimination, which are recognised as vital in this initiative. i am glad to have incorporated the need to promote women's participation in decision-making at all levels, both in the public and private spheres, with equal representation of men and women in all decision-making processes, in governance issues, in cooperation and humanitarian aid, in foreign delegations, in political candidacies, in the protection of women and girls or in world trade. finally, yesterday i began by saying that we must move from words to deeds in the union. i hope that we will be able to demonstrate also with this initiative that the european union is involved in the democratization of the country and, as such, will work for equality. if it does not, we will not be working for the genuine democratization of the 50% of the population -women- who are attentive to what we say, but above all to what we do.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the european year of active ageing because it is one of the eu's most important challenges, but also one of its greatest opportunities. governments and public policies have to respond to this challenge in a number of areas, establishing framework conditions to address the consequences of population ageing. the initiative we have adopted today will encourage the efforts of member states, regional and local authorities, social partners and civil society to promote active ageing and to unlock the potential of a population over 50.
in writing. − in favour. population ageing is one of the eu’s most important challenges but also one of the biggest opportunities. the rise in life expectancy linked to ageing is certainly an extraordinary social achievement and a success of our time. europeans today are living longer and healthier lives than ever before, which is a positive and encouraging development. however, this success also confronts european society with a number of challenges, in particular in the area of employment and social protection. to illustrate this, eurostat’s demographic projections expect a decrease of about 6.8% (20.8 million) in people of working age in 2030. thus, only two people of working age (15-64) will have to support one retired person (over 65), compared to a ratio of four to one today. the eu will therefore experience a steep increase in the share of older people and a large decline in the share of population aged below 50, which may, in turn, increase pressure on public budgets and pension systems, as well as on the social and care provision for older people. in addition, old age is often associated with illness and dependency, and older people can feel excluded from employment as well as from family and society.
in writing. - i have supported this resolution because of the importance of the events taking place in this part of the world. syria, yemen, bahrain, parts of the arab world and north africa are experiencing times of great tension. i condemn in this connection any disproportionate use of violence by the regimes against peaceful demonstrators, and deplore the high number of victims that is being caused. i commend the courage that many citizens are having in their peaceful struggle and, in particular, the role of women who are at the forefront of the protests. on the other hand, i am hopeful about the democratic transition that countries like tunisia and egypt can have with a view to future fair and democratic presidential elections.
in writing. − in favour. the resolution stresses that the european parliament: 1. strongly condemns the disproportionate use of force by the regimes against peaceful demonstrators and deplores the large number of persons killed and wounded; extends its condolences to the families of the victims and wounded; calls for an immediate end to the bloodshed and the release of the people arrested; calls for an investigation into the killings, arrests and alleged use of torture; 2. praises the people for the courage they have demonstrated in their peaceful fight for democratic change, in particular the women, who have been and often still are at the forefront of the protests; 3. calls on the political leaderships of the arab countries to honour their commitments by engaging without delay or precondition in an open and constructive political dialogue, involving all democratic political parties and movements and representatives of civil society, aimed at paving the way for genuine democracy and the implementation of real, ambitious and significant institutional, political, economic and social reforms, which are essential for long-term stability and development in these countries and in the region as a whole.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it offers guidelines in line with the values on which the european union is founded as a basis for building its external action. i particularly share the commitment to supporting the processes of democratisation and to including specific clauses on human rights, democracy, governance and respect for indigenous peoples in all agreements, documents, memoranda and in all relations established with third countries. i also think it is very useful to alert the commission to maintaining a more forceful attitude when it suspects non-compliance with the conventions based on the gsp+ regulation. finally, i think it is right that this motion for a resolution is devoted to supporting civil society, because it is one of the keys to a healthy functioning of democracy to give it a boost, to take advantage of the knowledge it has and to integrate it into participation and accountability.
in writing. − in favour. the resolution stresses the european parliament: 1. believes that only democracies based on the rule of law can function as a foundation for balanced structural partnerships between third countries and the eu that are also in keeping with the needs and interests of both parties and their respective populations; 2. stresses that partnerships based on dialogue and consultation enhance ownership of democracy-building processes and elements of democratic governance; calls on all eu institutions to make greater efforts to use these dialogues in a more coherent, consistent and coordinated manner; 3. considers that the eu’s role as a ‘soft power’ in the international system can only be consolidated if protection of human rights constitutes a real priority for it in its policy towards third countries.
in writing. - i have supported the text of this resolution because i share the critical assessment of the democratic behaviour of the russian authorities. russia is a member of the council of europe, the osce, the united nations and a preferred partner of the european union. if their intentions to curtail pluralism by preventing the free participation of democratic choices in elections and passing a law to ignore the decisions of the european court of human rights were confirmed, we would be faced with an extremely serious case. both behaviours are an attack on democracy and the material content of the european convention on human rights. it is unconscionable that a country which persists in such behaviour should be able to sit in institutions such as the council of europe.
in writing. − in favour. the resolution stresses that the european parliament: 1. reaffirms its belief that russia remains one of european union’s most important partners in building strategic cooperation, sharing not only economic and trade interests but also the objective of acting closely together in the common neighbourhood, as well as at global level; 2. reconfirms its resolution of 9 june 2011 on the eu-russia summit in nizhny novgorod; 3. deplores the decision by the russian authorities to reject the registration of the people’s freedom party (parnas) for the forthcoming duma elections in december 2011; calls on the russian authorities to guarantee free and fair elections and to withdraw all decisions and rules that oppose this principle; 4. reaffirms its concerns regarding the difficulties faced by the political parties in registering for elections, which effectively constrain political competition in russia, reduce the choice available to its electorate and show that there are still real obstacles to political pluralism in the country.
in writing. - i have supported this resolution on changes to the schengen system because i share the view that the behaviour of some states trying to re-establish border controls is anti-european, as it is based on a lack of interstate solidarity and zero trust between neighbouring states with heterogeneous situations in the area of illegal immigration. it's ineffective because it's not going to fix the problems that you want to face. it is also unaware of the positive effects on the quality of life of hundreds of thousands of people and on economic developments of the principle of free movement. finally, it violates procedures already established in the border codes to re-establish internal controls, which are perfectly defined and specified in terms of causes and procedures in the current legislation.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament: 1. stresses that free movement of people within the schengen area has been one of the biggest achievements of european integration, that schengen has a positive impact on the lives of hundreds of thousands of eu citizens, both by making border crossing convenient and by boosting the economy, and that freedom of movement is a fundamental right and a pillar of eu citizenship, the conditions for the exercise of which are laid down in the treaties and in directive 2004/38/ec; 2. strongly recommends strengthening the schengen governance in order to help ensure that each member state can effectively control its section of the eu’s external borders, to reinforce mutual trust and to build confidence in the effectiveness of the eu system of migration management; firmly stresses the need for greater solidarity towards those member states facing the greatest influx of migrants in order to help them deal with extraordinary situations of this nature;
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that enhanced interparliamentary cooperation in the field of the cfsp and the csdp can improve the policies adopted in the european union. i would like to stress that i would have preferred an agreement, but i hope that during the polish presidency an agreement between the ep and the national parliaments will be possible.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament: 1. recalls that the european parliament is a source of democratic legitimacy for the cfsp and the csdp, over which it exercises political scrutiny; 2. is convinced at the same time that strengthened interparliamentary cooperation in the area of cfsp and csdp would reinforce parliamentary influence over the political choices made by the eu and its states, owing to the european parliament’s responsibilities for the common policies of the union, including the cfsp/csdp, and to the prerogatives each national parliament enjoys in national security and defence policy decisions; 3. regrets the lack of agreement at the eu speakers’ conference of 4 and 5 april 2011 and looks forward to supporting the efforts of the polish presidency to reach an agreement between the european parliament and national parliaments on new forms of interparliamentary cooperation in this field.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution because a sudden reduction in commission funding from eur 500 million in 2011 to eur 113 million in 2012, following the ruling of the ecj, may harm the most vulnerable people who depend on food aid. this situation may be aggravated by the economic crisis. i therefore believe that the commission and the council should be asked to make a special effort, at least for the 2012-13 funding period, and in the meantime to study the most appropriate formulas for the future.
in writing. - in recent days i have received urgent messages from a number of banks which are on the verge of bankruptcy. but these banks don't speculate, they don't make money, they don't invest in wars. these food banks, these food banks, help 13 million people to be able to just eat. it would be outrageous - indeed it is already outrageous - if europe were able to move quickly to save bankers and financiers and we were unable to guarantee the survival of a basic survival programme. it is outrageous and intolerable and we, as members of parliament, must not allow it. i hope that during this new polish presidency a regulation will be adopted which will establish a new, more stable food distribution programme, which will not be dependent exclusively on available agricultural surpluses and which will be able to continue to offer its aid, that of the eu, to those who need it most.
in writing. − i would like to express my deepest satisfaction at the approval of this resolution. ever since the crisis began, the poorest sections of our society have had major and ever-increasing difficulties. now they need all the help that our institutions can provide, and this is why i have voted in favour of this resolution calling for a transition phase for the fund to ensure that very necessary organisations have enough money to continue trying to find a way out of the crisis, particularly in 2012 and 2013. i would also like to welcome the continuation of the successful relationship between the cap and the fight against poverty and malnutrition in the union.
in writing. − due to the insecurity of the majorities on the report mr duff has asked for a referral back to committee. we have supported his proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour because so many atrocious experiences which have cost so many human lives must be brought to an end. i am glad that an increasing number of countries are being included. however, i am concerned that china and russia still have the largest arsenals of pbms, 100 million and 24.5 million respectively. i therefore also think it is a good thing that the negotiations with these countries include the destruction of the maps. it is necessary, however, to take into account the victims, who are marked forever, and to increase involvement and support for programmes to help these groups.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament: 1. applauds the progress that has been made in mine action over the past decade but emphasises that efforts need to be refocused and intensified if the apl threat is to be eliminated within a finite period; 2. strongly welcomes the fact that 156 countries have now signed and ratified the mine ban treaty, including 25 eu member states, but regrets that some 37 countries have still not signed; urges all non-party states to accede to the mine ban treaty and the convention on cluster munitions; urges, in particular, those eu member states that have yet to accede to the treaty to do so and encourages greater synergy between the various international instruments; 3. strongly welcomes the fact that 56 countries have now joined the convention on cluster munitions, including 15 eu member states; welcomes, also, the adoption of the 2010 vientiane declaration and its action plan; calls on the eu and its member states to promote the universalisation and implementation of both the mbt and the ccm.
author. − madam president, we have to remind ourselves that we are all responsible in different ways for what is happening because un resolution 1325 emphasises it is the responsibility of all states to put an end to impunity and prosecute those responsible for crimes against humanity and war crimes, including those relating to sexual or other violence against women and girls. the time has come to go beyond condemnation; the congolese government and the un should assume responsibility and take concrete action to end these atrocities. for the congolese government, for instance, it is necessary to make dealing with violence against women a national priority and put in place mechanisms such as establishing transitional justice to promote truth, requiring accountability for sexual violence; and organising a national campaign to heighten public awareness of the mass rape of women. for the commission: it is time to review the drc’s country strategy paper and the national indicative programme of the edf (2008-2013), with the objective of making the issue of mass rape and sexual violence against women a national priority to combat impunity. the eu’s development funds to the drc should be allocated as a matter of priority to providing medical, legal and social support for victims of sexual abuse and empowering women and girls as a way of preventing further sexual abuse.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, once again women are the main victims of conflict. in the congo, sexual violence has been revived as a weapon of humiliation and maximum destruction of the adversary. in this case, moreover, the economic interests behind a conflict are clear, in which more determined action on the trade and use of so-called 'conflict minerals' in products we use every day would be a real tool for peace. i therefore call for greater control and determination in this particular area, and i support this motion for a resolution, which calls for democracy to avoid violence and war. i think it is also good to remember that the european institutions are also called upon to show more courage in supporting the political processes which are always the ones that end up resolving these kinds of conflicts. i hope that's the implication of all of us.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, we are discussing a report which the commission presented on its day on the strategy for dealing with a particularly important issue, which is none other than the volatility of commodity prices and the increase in demand for them by developing countries, especially china. my group would like to thank the bütikofer report and say that we agree with it very substantially, because we think that it develops, that it uses an approach, a really satisfactory approach to raw materials and the strategy for their use, access and development. in this respect, we believe that the report under discussion strikes a balance with regard to access to raw materials - which are fundamental, which are critical - both within and outside the european union; that it appropriately emphasises the importance of the efficient use of raw material sources; and that it presents a number of proposals which are very interesting for the improvement of recycling practices in the european union. i would also like to point out, on behalf of my group, that we do not think that the issue should be tackled by reducing consumption, since it is essential to maintain growth; economic growth must be maintained and boosted, and therefore what needs to be put forward are policies for the efficient use of these raw materials and policies which really encourage a rational use of them. we also believe that the impact on speculation will be positive, because the transparency measures proposed by the commission will mean that we will actually have a more transparent market than we have today and therefore less speculation.
mr president, on 29 june this year, the 49-year-old majorcan pilot antonio planas was killed in a terrorist attack by the taliban, along with 20 other people in kabul. antonio was married and father of an eight-year-old girl, worked for a turkish airline and died outside the european union. i take this opportunity to point out that all those europeans who are victims of a terrorist attack outside the european union do not have the compensation they would have had if the attack had taken place inside a member state. imagine the situation of his daughter and the widow: being victims of terrorism, they cannot have the same rights as if the attack had occurred in spain. i would therefore like to ask for protection for all those europeans who are victims of terrorism when death occurs outside our territory of the european union. in spain a law is under way, the law on the comprehensive recognition and protection of victims of terrorism, which seems to be able to correct this grave error and to vindicate and protect all victims of terrorism equally, in favour of memory, dignity, justice and truth, which are undoubtedly the ideas underlying it.
mr president, the citizens of the european union should have the opportunity to express their views on the economic adjustment and all the budgetary adjustment that is being made in the european union, a predatory adjustment to the social model and to democracy itself. spain is the first country to have carried out an express constitutional reform, without submitting that reform to a referendum and breaking the constitutional consensus that took so much work to achieve in 1977, after the franco dictatorship. i believe that the time has come to give the people of the european union a voice and to put this whole economic adjustment, which is the subject of many things, to a consultative and binding referendum: the european social model and direct democracy which citizens are demanding in the streets, occupying squares and asking to be given the opportunity to express their opinion and to decide. the european union cannot be built without european citizenship.
mr president, i reject this report as inappropriate, wrong, uninformed, untimely and subjective. the fight against terrorism is very necessary and must be effective, deterrent and also preventive. although it must be valued, its costs should never be evaluated in economic terms. how much does a life cost? and how many cost three thousand lives? i support and trust democratic judges and police, and i believe in our democratic vitality to correct any abuses of power that may occur. i also quote psalm 46 in terms of solidarity: 'therefore we will not fear, though the earth should be removed and though the mountains be carried into the heart of the sea.' and the absence reflected in it is also shared by me; it is present in my heart and in my prayers, as are the victims, all of them: those in madrid, those in london, those in marrakesh, those in casablanca, those in bali: all of them. no, mr president, this owninitiative report is a bad initiative.
mr president, the debate on this own-initiative report comes at a time when we are commemorating the tenth anniversary of the attacks of 11 september in the united states, which make it clear that the threat of terrorism is a real threat, not a product of our imagination, and it is here to stay, so that the world in which we lived, in which humanity lived in the middle of the 20th century, will not return. we must therefore be very aware that this is the moment when a traditional competence of the states to 'provide security' is also a responsibility of the european union, and it is of all its institutions. it is the case with the specialised agencies - europol, eurojust - but it is also the case with the european parliament, which is certainly committed to transparency, to political scrutiny and therefore to the evaluation of security policies which the treaty of lisbon now entrusts, from this moment onwards, to the european union and also to the parliament. but it also has a commitment to security: it must not only ensure the rights to freedom, but also the rights to security, and send a message of solidarity with the victims of terrorism, with the countries fighting terrorism in europe... (the president cut the speaker off)
thank you, sophia, for your work, because we need targeted assistance for victims, because we need to know what we spend on fighting terrorism, what impact that work has on everyone's freedoms and how much it costs in human, social, economic and political terms. we owe that transparency to the public if we want to build trust and consensus. in my country, terrorism has killed almost 900 people, and that is an unjustifiable cost, in lives, in pain. some believed, moreover, that they were killing in our name, and we lived escorted while they accused us of collaborating with eta. political prejudice has prevented the basque police from participating in schengen, and that has cost lives. they even unjustly closed down a newspaper, and our parliament has lost its legitimacy because some judgments gave absolute majorities to those who do not have them at the ballot box. the independence movement and the defence of the right to self-determination are legitimate ideas; what is dangerous is eta, which fortunately is coming to an end. it is an expression of violent extremism like others; to repress it requires to stop them, but also we must strengthen democracy with debate, transparency and more respect for citizens.
mr president, i would like to say to everyone that there is only one kind of terrorism: there is only that terrorism which destroys the lives of innocent people, no matter where it comes from. the victims of terrorism, whom i represent 'because the terrorist organisation eta murdered my brother and his wife', have a common thread and, on their behalf, i want to say that this report, with its long title, could have been ambitious and it is not. the result is disappointing. this report does not represent us, it does not represent the aspirations for justice or that balance between freedom and security which we have talked about so much here. it does not represent us, and i think that a report which talks about terrorism should be appreciated by the victims of terrorism, who do not appreciate it. i therefore call for a vote against this report.
the rapporteur, mrs schleicher, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. audits are today hampered by the concentration and lack of independence of auditors and do not help to generate that much-needed confidence that will revive our economy. it would not be out of the question to consider eliminating the legal obligation to audit accounts. why not? - why not? if we want to regain the confidence of the markets and in the markets, we must carry out a profound reform of audits so that they represent real added value and not a mere legal burden. the large audit firms use audit services as a calling card for their future clients. once they are familiar with the company, they offer more expensive complementary services which often compensate for the low prices of the strict audit. we have a problem of price distortion in the sector. these ancillary services already account for almost 50% of turnover, so the large auditors do not want to lose audit services, but not for the audit itself, but to maintain and increase ancillary services. the second major obstacle to free competition in the sector is the oligopoly of the big four, which dominate european markets by over 90%. as such, they control prices and create barriers to entry for new competitors, using intangibles such as international brand image. it is true that this brand image can be based on certain advantages, but it does not always mean greater efficiency, given the legislative diversity in accounting statements which may be subject to special treatment in each member state. i agree with the aims of the green paper, the independence and decentralisation of the sector, and the means to be used: rotation, joint audits, tendering, strengthening professional scepticism, the prevalence of substances over form, the separation of audit services from non-audit services. i have tried to incorporate them into my report to the extent that the majority in parliament and the modest scope of the report have allowed me to do so. ladies and gentlemen, this is only a small step towards new legislation that will correct the errors in the field of auditing that have led to this terrible economic crisis. i'm not going to let you go. you may continue on this path and achieve a good result!
in writing. the objective of this report on audit policy, as stated in its title, is to analyse the lessons of the crisis. since one of the fundamental causes of this was the loss of the main value of the developed economies, trust, with this resolution the european parliament proposes to strengthen that trust through audit firms. this report is the result of a convergence of views which, although divergent at first, have succeeded in establishing clear rules to strengthen the role of auditors. however, instead of changing the structure of the market by penalizing some of the large companies, it has been decided to ensure free competition and to give more support to smes to establish themselves in this market. i congratulate mr masip on the work he has done in the committee on legal affairs. it is an ambitious report which will need extensive development to accommodate all that has been suggested here. the lessons of the crisis have been many, and this is a clear example of europe's willingness to draw from a crisis the necessary impetus to put in place the mechanisms that will give confidence to the global economy. and audit policy is one of them.
madam president, i thank mrs iotova for presenting this own-initiative report through the committee on fisheries, because it sets a point, a necessary example of the organization and harmonization of fisheries policy. a specific policy for the black sea is needed, which will harmonise and organise all the coastal countries - both within and outside the european union - apply scientific criteria to determine fishing capacity and use diplomacy as a tool for harmonising the different countries, defend small-scale fishing - because many families and many villages depend on it - and promote the recovery of the environment; and establish a regional fisheries organisation, an administration closer to the area and able to solve problems. all this, together with a budget, so that the sea is less black and much more hospitable.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! i'm not going to let you get away with this. the council welcomes the agreement reached on the amendment of council regulation (ec) no 2007/2004 establishing a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, known as frontex. the european council and the council have repeatedly called for the strengthening of frontex in recent years. recent events in north africa and the resulting increased flow of migrants across the southern maritime borders of the european union have further demonstrated the importance of strengthening the agency's operational capacity. in its declaration of 11 march, the european council called for a swift agreement on the strengthening of frontex's capacity, and in its conclusions of 25 march it called for an agreement by june. the fact that we have managed to meet the deadline for completion is the result of intensive work in both the council and parliament, as well as negotiations between our two institutions. both institutions had to compromise on many issues to achieve a satisfactory result. i would like to highlight and thank in particular the efforts of the hungarian presidency and the negotiating team on behalf of the european parliament, led by rapporteur simon busuttil. since its launch in october 2005, frontex has rapidly become operational and now plays a key role in operational cooperation at the external borders of the european union. the agency coordinates a number of joint operations and pilot projects at the external borders, focusing in particular on several high-risk areas such as the southern sea borders of the european union. amending the regulation is an important step. it extends the agency's remit considerably. in a number of areas, it better equips the agency to better carry out both existing and new tasks. it includes the establishment of european border guard teams as a common resource to be deployed during all frontex operations, previously referred to as joint support teams and rabit teams, i.e. rapid border intervention teams. it also contains strengthened provisions on financing and ensuring the availability of appropriate technical and human resources teams. frontex is also required to pay particular attention to member states experiencing particular and disproportionate pressure on their asylum systems. the amended regulation contains strengthened provisions on the protection of fundamental rights, including the establishment of a consultative forum on fundamental rights and the appointment of a fundamental rights officer. the code of conduct will guarantee respect for fundamental rights and frontex operations will have to be suspended or terminated in cases of human rights violations. in addition, provisions will be introduced on the processing by the agency of personal data collected in the course of operational activities. the risk analysis capacity of frontex is being strengthened to allow a faster response to emerging situations. in addition, new provisions are introduced for training and research activities. the coordination role has been strengthened with regard to joint return operations and the possibility to launch technical assistance projects and to second liaison officers to third countries. the presidency has no doubt that the change of mandate of frontex will significantly strengthen its operational capacity. i am deeply satisfied with the strengthening of the effective management of the external borders of the european union. i also welcome the commission's commitment to carry out a feasibility study on the establishment of a european border guard system. this will allow the process of strengthening the european union's border management policy to develop in the coming years. let me conclude, madam president, by thanking parliament again for its constructive approach to this regulation. i look forward to the outcome of our negotiations being approved in today's vote. thank you very much!
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr busuttil, for his work, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, and also the last troika – the spanish, belgian and hungarian presidencies – for the efforts made so that we can come to a vote today on this very important matter. without effective border management, the schengen system cannot function effectively and the security of the eu may be put at risk. we have seen increasing challenges in recent years. some member states have been exposed to considerable migratory pressures at their external borders, and this must be dealt with in a spirit of solidarity and common responsibility. at the same time, of course, we must make sure that people who turn to europe seeking protection are dealt with in a way that is in compliance with our values and with international laws and standards. the effective management of member states’ external borders must be continuously improved to respond to the new challenges. weaknesses at some sections of the border must be tackled. our citizens need to be reassured that external border controls are working properly. this is, of course, primarily the member states’ responsibility, but frontex and the european union can contribute substantially to achieving these goals, and we have seen increased demand by member states for the services of frontex since its establishment in 2005. frontex has also been involved in many very important projects and operations lately in greece and also, with the hermes operation, in italy, where frontex is helping to assist the authorities as well as actually saving lives at sea. based on a number of evaluations, but also on the desire of the european council and the european parliament to improve and strengthen the legal framework of the agency, we at the commission identify proposals, and submitted one almost 18 months ago now. it was also important for the commission to be very clear on the human rights responsibilities of frontex to ensure its continued legitimacy. the strengthening of frontex had different connotations for different stakeholders. member states are looking to increase financial resources, while parliament wanted to improve the availability of technical resources and strengthen respect for fundamental rights, so it took us some time to negotiate this. but now we have reached a high-quality compromise that, i think, stresses the correct balance between the different interests in play. i am confident that the new regulation will enhance the work of the agency, especially through the european border guard teams, which will consolidate the eu character of this work. the requirement for member states to honour their promises regarding human rights is being strengthened. i would like to thank the rapporteur and parliament for their support in ensuring that frontex should only carry out joint operations if the necessary guarantees are provided regarding absolute respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and the right to international protection of those in need. i think the requirement for member states to honour their promises regarding the human and technical resources they put at the disposal of the agency will also enable the agency to better plan and conduct joint operations. in addition, frontex-funded return operations will be monitored to ensure objective and transparent criteria. to that end, the commission is providing today, for inclusion in the minutes, a commission declaration on the monitoring of return operations. the monitoring of returns, the clauses allowing the agency to suspend or terminate joint operations, and the creation of a consultative forum and a fundamental rights officer are all major steps forward. the strengthening of the operation and capability of the agency, including the possibility for the agency to acquire its own equipment, will put it in a position to cope in a cost-effective manner with the ever-increasing demands of member states for it to coordinate border control activities and return operations. furthermore, the changes mean frontex will also have a mandate to process personal data obtained during operations coordinated by the agency to use in the fight against crime and human trafficking. controlling external borders is only one aspect of border management. cooperation with countries of origin or transit is another. this regulation will enhance cooperation with the relevant authorities in third countries, and the agency will have the possibility of providing technical assistance to relevant third countries to increase the level of cooperation. if a decision is taken today, i think all three institutions can be proud. we have achieved a framework and laid the ground for a more effective, more operational, more visible and more legitimate frontex agency. i would like to thank everybody involved.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, i would like to congratulate mr busuttil, the commission and the council. the creation of the area of freedom, security and justice is one of the union's greatest achievements, allowing almost 500 million people to move freely across its territory. the abolition of internal frontiers has meant that the peripheral states have been obliged to strengthen their border controls, a task which, as you will recall, falls within the exclusive competence of the countries concerned. the internal states enjoy the benefits of the area of freedom, but they sometimes forget that this is largely due to the efforts of the states with external borders, which must be strengthened in situations of migration crises. these situations increasingly require the intervention of frontex. however, the agency's capacity to react is limited, as it does not have sufficient resources to do so. this lack of resources is due in large measure to the lack of real commitment on the part of some states. it was therefore necessary and appropriate to strengthen the frontex regulation by clearly defining the agency's mission and by providing the legal instruments to enable it to have the resources and means necessary to achieve its objectives in full compliance with fundamental rights. the provision of economic, material and human resources cannot depend on the goodwill of only a few states, and solidarity must become binding and general. frontex will also have to coordinate its action with europol and eurojust to combat organised crime. cooperation with the european asylum support office is an essential element in ensuring access to international protection. the creation of a border guard system is an interesting proposal which could be implemented if it is implemented through the so-called mandatory solidarity clause. the adoption of the proposal for a regulation will ultimately lead to better management of flows, a more effective fight against the mafia and improvements to the common asylum system.
madam president, i join in the appreciation of the work of our rapporteur for the european parliament, mr simon busuttil, and the initiative to amend the frontex regulation, backed up by the work of the commission and the polish presidency at a time when we are talking about an agency whose seat is precisely in warsaw, and which is crucial to understanding the importance of the area of freedom, justice and security for a globally relevant europe at a time when so many events are taking place - especially in the mediterranean - which highlight the importance, not of restoring internal borders, but of defending and managing ourselves together at the external border. and we do this by strengthening the operational dimension of frontex, its material resources, its human resources and the mandate for states to contribute, in an implementation of the solidarity clause; but, above all, by strengthening its humanitarian dimension, to know who is responsible for operations on the high seas, to underline the importance of saving lives and the responsibilities in landing and in primary care for rescued people. it is therefore a positive message of commitment to the humanitarian dimension of frontex, the protection of vulnerable persons and unaccompanied minors and respect for the rules of international humanitarian law, especially the geneva convention and the principle of non-refoulement. so we have an opportunity to underline the external dimension of the european union, its humanitarian character, but also the internal dimension of the european union, the solidarity mandate which is a positive and binding right for all member states since article 70 of the treaty of lisbon.
madam president, events in north africa have unfolded much more rapidly than our discussions and our responses. that is why this instrument, frontex, has not been able to respond to this humanitarian crisis, even though the situation has been going on for many months and will continue to do so. it is clear that strengthening the operational dimension, strengthening the humanitarian dimension and establishing a higher rate of community involvement for this instrument can be well-intentioned. but it will not be enough, unfortunately, for all the events we are experiencing. and i am not going to put on the table, in this debate, what is happening and we are seeing every day on television. this tragedy has a response, it needs a stronger response from the european union and there will be no good system until these countries consolidate their democracy and establish a climate of cooperation with these third countries. building trust is much more effective than continuing our europe-fortress, but it is clear that this will take time. in the meantime, during that period, we have to look for answers that are more effective and that are much more in line with what our values are.
in writing. − in favour. this is a request to waive the parliamentary immunity of hans peter martin. the case concerns the inappropriate use of state funding to meet private expenditure.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the amendment will make it possible to apply the common rules effectively by increasing coordination and cooperation between member states. strengthening the agency's functions will allow for integrated policy management.
in writing. - i voted against the busuttil report because it goes into greater depth the current wrong approach of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the eu (frontex), an approach based on the idea of a 'fortress europe' without taking into account the harmful and inhumane consequences. the more than 2000 people who have died this year trying to escape the tragic situation in which they find themselves in their own countries, seeking refuge in europe as a last resort to survive hunger, poverty, misery, war, climate disasters or political persecution, are a good example of this. this report delves into the construction of the 'fortress europe', without taking into account that in many cases people trying to enter european territory do so by fleeing from situations caused by the eu itself, without addressing the main causes of migration, including the eu's nefarious neighbourhood policy or unsustainable neoliberal trade policy, and without ensuring that the human rights of all migrants are respected through a migration and asylum policy based on solidarity.
in writing. − abstention. like all other eu agencies and bodies, frontex has a duty to observe and uphold fundamental rights in all realms of its affairs. the rapporteur welcomes the numerous elements in the commission proposal which underline the importance of fundamental rights and which strengthen the ability and obligation of frontex to ensure that respect for such rights is an integral part of border management. however, we understand that not enough guarantees are provided to fulfil all these obligations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this initiative because i believe that there is a need to improve the eu's coordination and role in international control regimes and to ensure that the eu speaks with one voice. but it is also necessary that parliament, in accordance with its capacity for co-decision, should give its support to all matters falling within the exclusive competence of the eu. this will allow for greater control, more transparency in the operation of the system
in writing. − abstention. the eu dual-use export control system, as set out in council regulation (ec) no 428/2009, requires an authorisation for the export of dual-use items listed in the annex to the regulation. annex i of this regulation largely depends on decisions that are taken by consensus in international export control regimes like the australia group (ag) for biological and chemical items, the nuclear suppliers group (nsg) for civil nuclear items, the missile technology control regime (mtcr) and the wassenaar arrangement (wa) for conventional arms and dual-use goods and technologies. article 15 of the basic council regulation (ec) no 428/2009 specifies that "the list of dual-use items set out in annex i shall be updated in conformity with the relevant obligations and commitments, and any modification thereof, that member states have accepted as members of the international non-proliferation regimes and export control arrangements, or by ratification of relevant international treaties’. the current practice in the eu is, to say the least, too vague.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the various regulations need to be adopted to bring them into line with the treaty on the functioning of the european union and to improve the transparency of union law, a key element of the 'better lawmaking' strategy.
in writing. − in favour. this resolution on the repeal of certain legal acts that have become obsolete concerns a number of acts which were adopted over the last decades, have exhausted all their effects, but remain technically in force. they have become obsolete because of their temporary character or because their content has been taken up by successive acts. several measures linked to the accession of new member states provided for transitory measures immediately after their accession and have become obsolete by now. a number of legal acts are repealed under the current proposal, which is based on the inter-institutional agreement on better law-making (oj c321 of 31.12.2003). this agreement aims targets the simplification and reduction of the volume of legislation (point 35). according to the agreement, ‘legislation will be updated and condensed inter alia through the repeal of acts which are no longer applied and through the codification or recasting of other acts’.
in writing. - i have agreed to the adoption of this draft resolution because of the need to adapt and repeal certain council acts which have become obsolete in the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. − in favour. the commission’s proposal to repeal a number of legal acts, as presented to the european parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure, is driven by the european union’s policy commitment to improve the quality of law-making and simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses. many legal acts in the area of the common commercial policy which were adopted in the last decades have exhausted all their effects, but remain technically into force. these acts have become obsolete because of their temporary character (council regulation (eec) no 478/92, council regulation (eec) no 3125/92, council regulation (ec) no 2798/1999, council regulation (ec) no 215/2000, council decision 2004/910/ec, council regulation (ec) no 1923/2004), or because their content has been taken up by successive acts (council regulation (eec) no 1471/88, council decision 2007/317/ec) or resulted from an international agreement which was subsequently replaced by another agreement (council regulation (ec) no 2184/96, council regulation (ec) no 2398/96), or because they were meant as an interim instrument for the period prior to the entry into force of an international agreement which took place in the meantime (council regulation (ec) no 1722/1999).
in writing. - i have supported the initiative because of the implications of parliament's commitment to improve and simplify the quality of legislation for the benefit of enterprises. so what we have done is to repeal legislation that is outdated to improve transparency and legal certainty for eu citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the commission’s proposal to repeal this legal act, as presented to parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure, is driven by the european union’s policy commitment to improve the quality of lawmaking, and to simplify the legislation in force in view of creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses. its provisions became obsolete because decision no 1/95 of the ec turkey association council of 22 december 1995 on implementing the final phase of the custom union has eliminated customs duties for goods originating in turkey. parliament, the council and the commission agreed in their interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking that community law should be updated and condensed by repealing acts which are no longer applied. acts which have no continued relevance should be removed from the acquis communautaire in order to improve the transparency and certainty of union law. the proposed amendments are intended to establish more clarity and legal certainty for the union’s citizens and institutions.
in writing. - i have approved this initiative, which is not a substantial amendment but a codification of existing acts as determined by the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour. as this is a codified text, the resolution simply reads: ‘a. whereas, according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance, 1. adopts its position at first reading, taking over the commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission; 2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the national parliaments.’
in writing. - i voted in favour because the regulated public service is one of the essential services offered by galileo. the initiative establishes a detailed legal framework to regulate access to the system, user management and control to ensure system security and information powers. given that it will be operational in 2014, it is necessary to approve it in order to allow member states and other actors the time necessary to set the control mechanisms and to comply with the safety standards.
in writing. - i voted against this report, remaining true to my rejection of the european galileo programme because of its clear war aims and perspective. i do not support the fact that the european union is spending huge amounts of its citizens' money to develop complex programmes and systems which are useful only, or in most cases, for war purposes. my commitment to real and committed pacifism and, above all, to the necessary demilitarisation of the european union, makes it impossible for me to support any programme, mechanism or tool which, like the satellite resulting from the galileo programme, is largely intended to advance the militarisation of human relations and the techno-arms race. in recent years, the galileo programme has done little or very little to develop, innovate and advance civil and non-military issues. on the contrary, considerable amounts have been allocated to its development without this translating into an improvement in the quality of life of most european citizens.
in writing. − against. apart from the above issue of balance of power between the national and community approach to setting security standards, several points were not satisfactory for the greens. these include, for instance, the fact that until now the ec and council have firmly stated that military applications were not the main purpose of the prs system. however, a survey carried out by the commission in 2006, and finally published as background to the adoption of this decision, shows however that member states intend to make extensive use of prs in the defence sector (except for germany and the uk) – whereby more than 60% of the prs receivers are expected to be attributed to the defence sector. it is finally clear today, and no longer contradicted, that the main use and purpose of prs is defence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the international tropical timber convention that the commission should submit information on plans and programmes relating to this convention and a study on its implementation before negotiations on its renewal are opened.
in writing. − in favour. in line with the european parliament legislative resolution of 24 september 2008, where the ep considers that when drafting the negotiating mandate for the revision of the international tropical timber agreement, 2006, the commission should propose that the current text be revised, placing the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests and the restoration of forest areas that have been degraded at the heart of the agreement, stressing the importance of education and information policy in the countries affected by the problem of deforestation in order to enhance public awareness of the negative consequences of exploiting timber resources in an abusive manner. trade in tropical timber should only be encouraged to the extent compatible with these prior objectives. in particular, this mandate for the revision of the international tropical timber agreement, 2006 should propose a voting mechanism for the international tropical timber council that clearly rewards the conservation and sustainable use of tropical forests.
in writing. - i support this report because switzerland is the eu's fourth largest trading partner and the values of imports and exports of agricultural products between the eu and switzerland are very high. negotiations for trade agreements were opened in 1992 in seven sectors, including agricultural products. thanks to this addition to the agreement, eu exports of key agricultural products such as meat and dairy products will enjoy greater protection of their geographical and origin indications in one of our largest export markets.
in writing. − in favour. switzerland is the european union’s fourth largest trading partner and in particular the values of exports and imports of agricultural products between the eu and switzerland are very significant. in 2010, the eu exported to switzerland agricultural products to the value of eur 6.3 bn which made this country the third biggest export market for the eu’s agricultural products. therefore it is of the utmost importance that the european union continuously works with the swiss authorities to improve the conditions and terms of bilateral commercial relations.
in writing. - as a member of the eea, norway benefits from the internal market, but under the 1992 eea agreement, agriculture and fisheries were exempted from free movement. a further full liberalisation is now envisaged, representing about 20% of eu exports to norway as well as norwegian products in the eu. i support this report for that reason.
in writing. − in favour. as a member of the european economic area (eea), norway benefits from the internal market, but agriculture and fisheries are exempted from free circulation in the 1992 agreement on the eea. instead, article 19 provides for progressive liberalisation of agricultural production through reviews of the conditions of trade in agricultural products, carried out at two-yearly intervals, and decisions on a preferential, bilateral or multilateral, reciprocal and mutually-beneficial basis on further steps in that direction to reduce other types of barriers on trade in the agricultural area. the latest agreement between the kingdom of norway and the european community based on article 19 of the eea agreement came into force in july 2003. it comprised the arrangements for reciprocal trade in cheese and mutual concessions for a variety of agricultural products, including tariff quotas. from march 2008 to january 2010, new negotiations were held and resulted in the present draft agreement.
in writing. - like the other reports we have adopted today, i am also in favour of the adoption of this one on trade relations between the eu and liechtenstein, which are closely linked to trade relations between the eu and switzerland. this agricultural agreement will improve bilateral agricultural trade.
in writing. − in favour of the consent. eu trade relations with liechtenstein are closely associated with eu trade relations with the swiss confederation, which is the european union’s fourth-biggest trading partner. the eu and switzerland have defined their relations by establishing bilateral treaties in various fields. in order to minimise the negative consequences of the rejection of the eea agreement by switzerland in 1992, negotiations for commercial agreements were launched in seven sectors, including agricultural products. the ‘agricultural agreement’ was concluded in 1999 and has been in force since 1 june 2002. the new annex 12 to the agricultural agreement will improve bilateral eu-switzerland agricultural trade. therefore, amending the additional agreement is also a positive and necessary step.
in writing. - i have supported the convention for the conservation and management of high seas fishery resources in the south pacific ocean so that the commission works to ensure that member states with fleets with fishing interests in the convention region can be present in all forums, both international and bilateral.
in writing. − in favour. fishing activity in the south pacific has until now been managed by the two regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos): the inter-american tropical tuna convention (iattc) and the western and central pacific fisheries commission (wcpfc). since the objective of both, however, is to manage highly migratory species, the fishing of other types of resources in this vast area has been unregulated, other than in the exclusive economic zones (eezs) of coastal states that applied their own rules. to fill this gap, and given that there is fishing activity both in the eezs and on the high seas, in 2006 the governments of australia, chile and new zealand decided to launch a process of international consultation on the establishment of the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo), with the aim of cooperating in addressing the gap in the management and conservation of non-highly migratory species and the protection of biodiversity in the high seas areas of the south pacific, in a manner consistent with international law.
in writing. - i have supported the eu-brazil agreement to facilitate trade in goods and services, to limit as far as possible the duplication of assessments and to delegate the system of certification and mutual recognition of assessments. the agreement reproduces the structure of the existing bilateral agreements on civil aviation safety between the member states and canada.
in writing. − in favour. this recommendation concerns a draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and brazil on civil aviation safety (‘the agreement’). the agreement was signed on behalf of the european union on 14 july 2010 and is not provisionally applied. as the removal of technical barriers to trade in goods comes within the exclusive competence of the union, the agreement can be concluded by means of a council decision. only six member states currently have bilateral agreements with brazil covering product certification. those bilateral agreements will be terminated from the date of entry into force of the agreement. the agreement constitutes a net benefit for the european union, given that it will establish mutual acceptance of certification findings in all areas of airworthiness for all member states. it should be noted that brazil is not only the tenth largest economy in the world but also the eu’s tenth largest trade partner.
in writing. − the aim of this agreement is to improve the procedure for the surrender of persons between the member states and norway and iceland for the purpose of prosecution or enforcement of a judgment, taking into account as minimum standards the terms of the convention on extradition between the member states of the eu of 27 september 1996.
in writing. − in favour. insofar as this agreement merely extends to norway and iceland – at the request of these two countries – provisions that are already in place among the eu member states, the greens/efa group sees no reason to object. however, we are of the opinion that the european arrest warrant must be subject to evaluation in order to respond to public concerns about possible abuses or defects of this instrument (as most recently raised in a june 2011 plenary debate based on oral questions 111/2011 and 112/2011 raised by the greens (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getdoc.do?type=cre&reference=20110608&secondref=item-012&language=en" ) in particular, we are concerned about problems that the partial waiver on dual criminality may lead to. this waiver, as framed by article 3(4) of the agreement, creates the possibility of arrest and surrender for practices that do not constitute a crime in both countries concerned. a case in point is the possibility of waiving double verification of criminality concerning the ‘facilitation of unauthorised entry and residence’.
in writing. − this has to do with the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 521/2008 setting up the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking. consultation. we agreed on: 1. approving the commission proposal; 2. calling on the council to notify parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by parliament; 3. asking the council to consult parliament again if it intends to substantially amend the text approved by parliament; 4. instructing its president to forward its position to the council and the commission.
in writing. - i have supported this report on audit policies, as well as the green paper presented by the european commission. it is recognised that statutory audit has a social function and is in the public interest, being a fundamental component of the democratic economic and social system.
in writing. - while i welcome some aspects of this report, i did not vote in favour of it because it gives an unsatisfactory and empty answer to the most important issues that need to be addressed: the concentration and oligopoly that exists in the market for rating agencies, the lack of independence and transparency, the strict supervision and regulation that must govern the activity of these agencies, and the need to put an end to the financial speculation they carry out. it is nevertheless positive that the report addresses some of these problems, but in basing its response on the free market it does not take account of what has happened with the current crisis. thus, the solutions it proposes leave aside the necessary public intervention and it is fully confident that the free market will correct these problems. i have not supported this report because i do not share, and the basis of the present crisis shows this, that the free market can solve people's problems beyond enriching a small group. in this field, as in many others, public intervention is indispensable to prevent the enrichment of a few through speculation and the degradation of the welfare of the majority of citizens.
in writing. − in favour. in general terms, the resolution: 1. takes the view that the debate on the role of the auditor should go hand in hand with a strengthening of the role of the audit committee – now largely ineffective – and of the financial and risk reporting that companies are required to carry out; but 2. sees as yet no sufficient basis for a final assessment, and therefore reminds the commission that more use of regulations and a wide-ranging, in-depth impact assessment are needed, looking at the various political options, focusing on practical issues in line with the principles of ‘better lawmaking’, addressing the importance of accounting in providing accurate information about the sustainable economic development of companies and including an analysis of interest groups in order to clarify the segmentation of the impact assessment study for the various groups, such as smes, sifis and other listed and non-listed companies; 3. takes the view that an assessment should be made of the impact on the users of audit reports, such as investors and sifi regulators; 4. calls on the commission to analyse the added value generated by both the proposed regulation and the progressive harmonisation of auditing standards and practices in the european single market;
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on women approaching retirement age, as women represent 50% of the population in all eu countries, with europe having the highest percentage of elderly women on the planet. women have had a role as caregivers that has not been reflected in their retirements. i support any initiative to improve women's access to retirement.
in writing. − in favour. the ep resolution: 1. welcomes the commission’s decision to designate 2012 as the european year of active ageing and solidarity between the generations and calls on the commission and member states to take appropriate and effective steps to combat discrimination, including by tackling the stereotypes associated with gender and age discrimination and promoting solidarity between generations; 2. calls on the commission and the member states to ensure that multiple discrimination against women over the age of 50 is better reflected and effectively tackled in the open method of coordination regarding pensions, social inclusion, employment, changing gender stereotypes and inclusion of women on political and economic decision-making bodies;
in writing. - i have supported this report on the implementation of the mediation directive in the member states, as i regard it as a positive step towards the necessary steps to make progress in the implementation and 'communitisation' of the mediation mechanism and the promotion and improvement of this tool. the approach and the reading it offers on the process of implementing the directive in the member states, its impact on mediation and its acceptance by the courts are thus interesting. i share the need for increased processes to raise awareness of the figure of mediation and the demand for measures to help increase its acceptance. i also welcome the need for the commission to encourage national authorities to develop programmes to promote knowledge of alternative dispute resolution and to regulate and clearly set out the requirements for access to the mediation profession.
in writing. − in favour. the ep resolution, among other things: 1. observes that the requirement of confidentiality set out by the directive already existed in certain member states’ domestic legislation: in bulgaria, the code of civil procedure states that mediators can refuse to testify about a dispute they have mediated; in france and poland the laws governing civil mediation establish similar provisions; 2. notes that, among the member states, italy adopts a rigorous approach to the confidentiality of mediation proceedings, whilst the swedish mediation rules state that confidentiality is not automatic and require an agreement between the parties to that effect; 3. considers that a more coherent approach seems to be needed;
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to replace the traditional comitology procedure and the regulatory procedure with scrutiny by a two-tier structure based on delegated and implementing acts. the proposal is limited to amendments aimed at achieving such harmonization. it is simply an adaptation to the tfeu.
in writing. − in favour. not a contentious issue. concerns alignment post-lisbon treaty; amendments adopted in the agri committee and co-signed by us in plenary.
in writing. − in favour. most industrialized countries, including all eu member states and most emerging countries have at least one officially-supported export credit agency (eca), which is usually an official or quasi-official branch of their government. ecas collectively account for the world’s largest source of official financing for private-sector projects. ecas’ underwriting of large industrial and infrastructure projects in developing countries totals several times the combined annual funding of all multilateral development banks. the collective magnitude of the export credit guarantees provided in the period 2004-2009 by the ecas of the eu member states was in the range of eur 468 billion.
in writing. - european industry is facing an increasingly difficult situation in terms of raw material supply. i have supported this report because of the need to find solutions in this area. we must promote a strategy of industrial innovation to ensure raw materials and our competitiveness.
in writing. − in favour. in accordance with the definition of the own initiative report by the itre committee, the rapporteur (greens) took a targeted approach to ‘an effective raw materials strategy for europe’ focusing on non-energy and non-agricultural raw materials and in particular on critical raw materials such as rare earths. the rapporteur turned the 3-pillar approach of the commission on its head by placing primary emphasis on resource efficiency, reuse, recycling and substitution. the report insists also that domestic mining must not interfere with nature conservation targets (natura 2000). the report prescribes a new cooperative philosophy for europe’s raw-materials-related relationships with developing countries, as well as with resource-rich emerging economies such as china. the report addresses in a comprehensive way issues of rm governance at an eu level and in the international arena.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because of the need for sustainable management of fisheries in the black sea now and in the future. the aim is to create a framework for the medium- and long-term development of fisheries in the region, which has not yet been institutionally coordinated. this could provide tangible results in preserving fishermen's livelihoods, ensuring economic development in coastal areas and protecting the ecological balance and fisheries resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour. this report aims primarily to set the framework for the medium- and long-term development of fisheries in the black sea region. the report is of great importance, because until now the black sea has lacked coordinated action among all those involved in fisheries. institutionalised coordination could provide tangible results to protect the livelihood of fishermen, ensure economic development in coastal areas, and protect the ecological balance and fish resources in the basin. this applies not only to eu member states, but also to all other black sea countries. the black sea is an enclosed basin whose resources are, to some extent, shared among the six black sea states. the area is also of major economic, social and political importance. the report establishes that fisheries cooperation among the countries in the black sea region will be a considerable step forward in managing preservation and tackling issues effectively in the black sea basin.
in writing. − national oil and gas supplies make an important contribution to the eu's energy consumption and energy security. in the eu, 90% of oil and 60% of gas are extracted from offshore operations, mainly in the north sea. every effort should be made to promote dialogue and encourage joint initiatives between national competent authorities, taking as a model the forum of north sea sea states' competent authorities on marine facilities. safety and health training for staff should not be forgotten.
in writing. − i voted against. during the negotiations within and between the committees, the greens were successful in bring in some of their key demands. however, during the vote in plenary we failed to get majorities in favour of calling on states to not authorise offshore drilling activities until remaining gaps in legislation are closed and the highest possible safety standards are in place, and environmentally sensitive areas such as the arctic region are excluded from all operations.
in writing. − women in all countries and spheres still live in situations of inequality. the crisis has affected them more than other professions. it is therefore necessary to support women entrepreneurs and to provide them with greater financial, educational and training support. on the other hand, work is needed to enable them to access the opportunities offered by traditional business networks and information and communication technologies.
in writing. - while this report contains some proposals which can be considered positive in moving forward on the long road to gender equality, i have voted against them, as they all focus exclusively on favouring the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises by women, thus rejecting the effective and necessary public intervention in the economic sector in pursuit of gender equality. the report thus focuses on and overestimates the simple facilitation of the creation of small and mediumsized enterprises by women. the report, which is framed entirely from a liberal economic approach, does not take into account the validity of other economic activities, such as cooperatives or public economic initiatives, programmes and mechanisms that would represent real progress in gender equality.
in writing. − i voted in favour. by definition, entrepreneurs of both genders have to be focused on their enterprise and committed to success. in the business world those running their own companies are often far more dedicated than employees and put in longer hours, making personal sacrifices to succeed against the competition. for female entrepreneurs the stakes can be even higher as they may have to overcome discrimination in what has traditionally been a male environment. many have to juggle their own aspirations to succeed alongside their commitment to their families. even though we live in the 21st century, women are still very much at the forefront in the home, especially where there are children.
the following is the report by mr jorgo chatzimarkakis, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on energy market integrity and transparency (com (2010) 0726) (a7-0273/2011).
mr president, commissioner, as we have said many times, a truly competitive internal energy market requires further development of network interconnections, further harmonization of network guidelines and codes and the completion of the process of coupling all energy markets. the adoption of the regulation on the integrity and transparency of energy markets is therefore a particularly important milestone. we need to ensure that electricity and gas prices respond to an appropriate interaction of supply and demand, avoiding - as already mentioned - practices such as asymmetry in access to information, market manipulation and abuse, distortions that prevent the existence of genuine competition. given the technical specificities of these markets, it is now necessary for the european commission, acer and national energy regulators to move forward with the creation of a common framework applicable to all operators in spot energy markets. this common framework should provide harmonised access to the different national and regional markets for those involved in them today, thus promoting intra-european trade in electricity and gas and the convergence towards a single and competitive energy price in europe.
mr president, i welcome the efforts of the european institutions to increase their transparency and to improve the quality of their legislation, because both are essential to getting closer to the citizens. as regards subsidiarity, i would like to say that the report talks about the role of national parliaments, but the procedure does not ensure that regions with legislative powers can convey their positions to the european institutions. that needs to be addressed, and it can help to do so by increasing the time taken for the response. i would like to express my agreement that the committee on petitions should be the body responsible for handling proposals submitted under the 'european citizenship' initiative. i also think it is essential to improve the commission's consultation procedures, incorporating the criterion of proactivity towards the sectors concerned and with an intensive application of icts to achieve this. it is also essential to ensure that all proposals are written in accessible terms and have accessible structures. finally, i would like to remind the member states once again of the need to set up the correspondence tables. all this will contribute to control, transparency and quality.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members for a very good debate which once again demonstrates the importance we all attach to better regulation and implementation of the law for the proper functioning of the european union. i would also like to thank all of you for your strong commitment to better regulation, transparency and a reduction of the administrative burden. i would like to assure you that all these goals are fully shared by the commission. in reaction to some of the interventions and comments, i would like to underline that smart regulation remains a key priority for the commission. we have a very ambitious agenda with clearly defined priorities, many of which are reflected in the report. we are fully aware of the climate in which we are living, the serious crisis and the need for measures to make life for businesses, and especially smes, much easier. we know that in this way we can also contribute to a situation where we will return to a europe of growth and new job creation. with regard to smart regulation, i have already described some aspects in my introductory remarks. some of you mentioned the need to consult the final consumers – the citizens and businesses. we really do that. we have a very extensive programme of public consultations. we have even extended the period in which citizens or businesses can communicate with us and can comment on our proposals from 8 to 12 weeks. regarding smes and mr de jong’s comments, i would like to assure him and all of you that we are fully committed to following up on the june 2011 european council conclusions that requested the further reduction of the regulatory burden on smes. the sme test we have in the commission is very thorough, and we have suggested several proposals on this matter to the council. i have to say that some of them have been too difficult for the council to adopt, so we will further continue the discussion with the council on how to reduce administrative burdens for smes. i would like to assure mr kožušník from the czech republic that we will meet the target of a 25% reduction in the administrative burden. we will actually exceed it because, according to our calculations, we have already put on the table proposals which would reduce the administrative burden by 31%. for that, we need the collaboration of this parliament and of the council and, of course, we need appropriate implementation in the member states. we can make the proposals but the work must be done where the law is applied in the member states. we hope that we will be very successful in this indeed. regarding ms geringer de oedenberg’s comments and her reluctant position on the ‘one regulatory measure in, one out’ approach, here in europe we are overshooting this target. very often, through our legislation, we put one in and we get 27 out, because we are actually replacing legislation at the national level. very often it is much more efficient to legislate at european level, because it is much better and it brings many economies and a lot of coherence into the single market of the european union. we should look at each piece of legislation on a case-by-case basis, via a solid impact assessment. i believe that this would definitely be an optimal approach. many honourable members of the european parliament commented on access to documents. here i should start by clarifying what i see as a misunderstanding. the commission’s proposal on access to documents did not have the intention of decreasing the level of transparency. on the contrary, and to give an example on the topical issue of the definition of documents, the commission’s proposal has been misunderstood as limiting the scope of official documents mentioned in the public registers. this is absolutely not the case. the existing wide definition of documents is maintained, and is only being clarified. this clarification should help identify documents much more rapidly, and thus i believe deliver more transparency rather than less. another important point, mentioned by ms sommer, is the proposal to ensure space to think. all institutions and bodies must have the ability to reflect on the possible policy options before taking the decision. this was another proposal we made when we were presenting our proposal for this area. i would like to assure you that the commission invests a great deal in the examination of requests for information and in granting access when appropriate. we are promoting transparency in all our activities and each commission department has a dedicated member of staff in charge of coordinating the application of access to documents. to conclude on access to documents, i would like to invite parliament to consider a twin-track approach: firstly relaunching the legislative process on the recast regulation by concentrating on what really belongs to the fundamental substance of the regulation; and secondly, adopting rapidly the second commission proposal from last march extending the obligation in terms of access to documents to all eu institutions. i believe that we have to respect the lisbon treaty and we have to act quickly because our citizens deserve access to documents and information from other institutions as well. my last comment is on the proposal for the new procedural court. this is a very sensitive and very important legal question, because under the treaties it is the commission that oversees the application of eu law under the sole control of the court of justice. this view is confirmed by the court’s case law which we must of course all respect. thus it is for the commission alone, subject to the authority of the court of justice, to organise the way in which it manages infringement proceedings and related work to ensure the correct application of eu law. therefore, for legal reasons, a regulation based on article 298 tfeu cannot be used to regulate the specific responsibilities directly conferred by the treaties upon the commission in this area. to conclude, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the members of the european parliament for a very good discussion. we are very much looking forward to discussing with them further progress in this very important area.
acting president of the council. - mr president, the house, the commissioner! the debate on better lawmaking focused on three issues. but they all had one thing in common, they were all about better lawmaking. the debate was on three seemingly different issues. all the comments i had the honour to hear were extremely interesting and will certainly be taken into account in the work of the council of the european union. i would like to refer to the three points which were the subject of today's debate. i'll start with the issue of access to information. i naturally share your concerns about excessive access restrictions and your demands to make the european union as transparent as possible. however, it must be remembered that we must strike a balance between the transparency of the european institutions and their effectiveness. i fully agree with mrs sommer's comments on this point, which pointed out the need to ensure efficiency. it is clear and this has also been recognised by the court of justice of the european union in its case law that not all documents need to be publicly available. i can give as an example the issue of documents forwarded to the council by the member states. if we were to share completely the documents we receive from the member states, they would stop forwarding them to us, which would in turn affect the efficiency of the functioning of the council of the european union. when it comes to access to documents, i think we also need to focus on making public documents more accessible. mr de jong rightly pointed out that the websites of individual institutions are often so opaque that even documents that are fully accessible are very difficult for citizens to find. finally, i fully agree with the conclusion of european commission vice-president šefčovič that the work on the proposal to amend regulation 1049/2001 which aligns european legislation with the lisbon treaty should be accelerated. as regards better regulation, we all agree there is no doubt that the administrative burden should be reduced definitively, especially for businesses in the context of the economic crisis. economic growth must be seen as an opportunity for the union to enter a path of significant economic growth. in this context, i particularly welcome the report by mr karim. he also stressed the need to strengthen the role of national parliaments, as introduced by the lisbon treaty. this is a very important matter from the council's point of view. it is not just a question of increasing the legitimacy of the european union's actions by increasing the role of national parliaments, but we must also remember that the european legislation we adopt is implemented by national parliaments. the earlier we involve national parliaments in the process of drawing up european union law, the better we can expect to be in terms of the process of implementing that law in individual member states. i would also like to refer to the question of convergence tables. we see an opportunity here for a deal. i would like to thank commissioner šefčovič for his contribution. i think we can reach an agreement on this in the next few weeks. i would like to mention one last point which is essentially a matter for the commission, namely the application and enforcement of eu law by the member states. i would just like to add that you have, of course, often referred to the role of the infringement procedure, where the commission takes a member state to the court of justice. however, it should be remembered that the purpose of this procedure is not to stigmatize the state but to ensure that it properly implements european union law. in this context, programmes such as eu pilot and solvit are of particular importance. they shall also be implemented with the participation of the member states. the fact that many infringements are resolved before the procedure is opened is also a credit to the member states. mr. speaker, the house of lords! i would like to thank you all again for a very interesting debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by willy meyer, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the activities of the committee on petitions for 2010 (2010/2295 ((ini)) (a7-0232/2011).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, i also thank the secretariat of the committee, which, with its efforts and dedication, always helps us to carry out a huge amount of work. in this report, which we are debating today and will be voting on tomorrow, we have summarised the work of 2010 with a calendar of activities which does not revolve around the european commission's legislative programme, but which is set by the citizens themselves when they exercise their right to petition the european parliament. the report has three aims: firstly, to present in a clear and comprehensible way the activities of the committee on petitions in 2010; secondly, to highlight the role of the committee on petitions and the right of petition exercised by european citizens to denounce violations of community law, which should be a pillar of european citizenship; and, lastly, to make special reference to legislative changes such as the adoption of the citizens' initiative and the legally binding nature of the charter of fundamental rights. in its descriptive part, the report states that petitions have decreased by 14% compared to 2009, i.e. 1 655 petitions compared to 1 924 in 2009. the main issues raised in the petitions, from the most important to the least important, have been the environment, fundamental rights, the internal market and justice. the fact that most of the requests concern the environment means that appropriate procedures must be put in place to prevent further irreparable losses in the biodiversity of the european union. the languages most used for the submission of petitions were german, english, spanish and italian. the nationality of the main petitioner was german, followed by spanish, italian and romanian. and as for the country or countries to which the petitions refer, there is a marked change: the petitions concerning spain exceed those concerning the european union as a whole; then those concerning germany and italy follow in number. the format of reception, fortunately, is the internet - which clearly displaces paper - and we also highlight in the report the three research missions developed by the commission in 2010: research mission in the estuary of huelva (spain) to examine the management of toxic waste (phosphate and toxic ash discharges), mission in campania (italy) on the management of urban waste and mission in voralberg (austria) in relation to the transposition into national legislation of the environmental impact directive as regards a project related to skiing. on the relationship of our committee with other parliamentary committees, with other institutions such as the european commission, the council or the ombudsman and with the member states, the report calls for a reduction in the response times to inquiries by the european commission, as we did in the previous report presented by mr iturgaiz on the 2009 annual report. the european commission should provide regular information on the stages of infringement procedures related to petitions. i would like to stress that for the work of our committee, it is essential to have a fluid communication with this institution. the report also calls for the establishment of a european environmental monitoring system, which would be able to monitor the implementation of environmental legislation in the member states. at the same time we are pleased with the excellent relations between mr diamandouros, the european ombudsman, and our own committee. we also pointed out the need for more transparency in the handling of petitions. in conclusion, i would like to point out that one of the great innovations for our committee at the moment is the european citizens' initiative. the commission understands from our experience that we should be very close to this new instrument. and we also think that it is necessary to launch a debate on the limited application of the charter of fundamental rights because of the large number of petitions concerning violations by the commission.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i should like to say thank you very much for all the contributions by the honourable members and the excellent work done by the committee on petitions. allow me to respond to some of the comments. firstly, we all know that one of the commission’s very important roles is to be the guardian of the treaties, so we have to respect the law. we have to respect the division of labour between european and national levels and our stance must be always legally precise and correct. otherwise, every step we take, every act we adopt could be challenged in the european court of justice. therefore, sometimes an approach that you may find cautious is very important from the point of view of how correctly we apply the law because we are responsible for monitoring that european law is always correctly applied. we must therefore lead by example. i understand your preoccupations and that a lot of the petitioners who are unhappy with the results of their efforts then complain that they were not properly informed in advance. i therefore think mr jahr’s idea to improve communication on pieces of legislation that are particularly complicated – which is usually the case in the field of the environment – is very important. we particularly appreciate the fact that both ms mazzoni and ms auken participated in the seminar organised by dg environment because this is exactly how we would like to promote awareness on these very complicated pieces of legislation. another item which was highlighted several times by members is the element of fundamental rights. here again we have to respect the law, and the fact that the fundamental rights in the charter cannot be invoked outside the scope of the eu is, we know, a frequent source of disappointment for petitioners. therefore, again with your help and cooperation, we are going to organise a special conference on the workability of the charter early next month, on 6 october. i am sure that this will also help to raise awareness of what is applicable and what is not and how the eu charter can be applied and monitored by the eu institutions. finally, the european citizens’ initiative. we have been working very closely with the committee on petitions and ms mazzoni, and we have been going through the regulations. there is interest in the european parliament, and the number of rapporteurs proves how important the eci is for the european parliament also. i was therefore glad that in the end we could find a compromise where we agreed that the hearings would be organised at the european parliament because we in the commission also found it very important for parliamentary ground to be used for the deliberations at these hearings. i am sure that the committee on petitions will be properly involved, but of course it would be an internal european parliament decision to decide how the european citizens’ initiative will be treated by the european parliament and the respective committees.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. firstly, and for the second time, we reiterate the need to raise the level of demand when it comes to shortening the procedures for petitions that may put biodiversity at risk in the european union. i mean, many times, from the very beginning of the procedure, they go to the commission, the commission asks the member state for information and the member state responds... so much time passes that, in the case of a public or private project that may endanger biodiversity, by the time the letter of location or the action of the courts arrives, the damage is already done and it is irreversible. for the second time we are making this urgent call for the level of demand to be raised with the member states and for parliament, the european commission and the member states to act much more quickly. secondly, this committee feels that it is the best placed to follow up on citizens' legislative initiatives, which is a very important figure because it allows european citizens to make legislative requests to this house. we also wish to express a concern that has arisen in relation to the issue of property and that has not been raised concretely because we have chosen not to do a thorough development of the whole activity, except in relation to the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights: we believe that the lack of legal instruments has to be solved and, therefore, we believe that a debate is needed - which is open, which is in perspective - a debate so that, in fact, in that implementation there are legal instruments that we can have a guarantee that they will be applied in all the member states and in the whole of the european union. i would like to end as i began, thanking all my colleagues for their cooperation and also reiterating my appreciation of all the work of the secretariat. i therefore hope that tomorrow we will be able to vote on the final report for 2010 and i also hope that in 2011 we will not have to repeat the need to shorten the procedures for certain petitions that put biodiversity at risk in the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission is working actively to ensure that all member states transpose the directive adopted by parliament and the council as quickly as possible, because the faster it is transposed, the more money will be put into circulation. we estimate that some eur 180 billion will be put into circulation once this directive has entered into force in all 27 member states of the union. i have already instructed the deputy director-general, mr smi, mr daniel calleja, to urge the ambassadors of small and mediumsized enterprises appointed by all the member states, in response to the european commission's request, to urge their parliaments to transpose the directive as soon as possible, i.e. before the deadline. i should like to say that some regions, some local authorities have decided to bring forward on their own behalf - this is the case of the lombardy region in italy - the directive on late payment so that money can be put into circulation and small and mediumsized enterprises can avoid being choked by late payments, which in some member states are really biblical delays. it is my commitment to continue to insist on the transposition of the late payments directive at every opportunity, at every meeting i hold in the various member states on the subject of small and mediumsized enterprises. i hope that the parliaments and the member states will be quick to take up the message of the european commission.
madam president, commissioners, when we talk about new forms of work, millions of europeans are asking themselves whether these new forms of work will be with rights or with worse rights than the old forms of work. some of us are concerned to read your communication 'new skills for new jobs' and to note that it echoes debates in our member states about new forms of contract which, instead of seeking equality in protection, seek equality in precariousness. commissioners, do you not think that the time has come for the commission to take a strong stand, a clear stand before the european citizens, saying that the future will be equally responsible for the flexibility needed by companies and the security demanded by workers and companies, that there must be a balance between these two variables and that there can be no worse conditions in the future than in the past? mr commissioner, when will a framework directive be adopted, when will the commission commit itself to ensuring that the new forms will also be forms with rights?
member of the commission. − the commission is studying very thoroughly the consequences of the recent financial and economic crisis for the labour market and how the european labour market transformed compared with the previous decade. it is absolutely true that even before the crisis, not simply as a consequenceof it, the rise of precarious forms of employment were a major concern. some countries, especially mr cercas’s home country of spain, developed in a very unfortunate way, producing a large number of unprotected jobs especially in certain industries like construction. this is especially the case for young people and workers with a migrant background. these groups, especially where they overlap, find themselves in a very difficult situation. we are paying attention to this and this is also why in the europe 2020 strategy and the agenda for new skills and jobs we are putting forward a number of initiatives to address the situation. one such initiative, on which we had a tremendous debate in this house also, was the question of the single open-ended contract. this is because we want to bridge the gap; we want to abolish the segmentation of the labour market. we are not offering this as a kind of uniform solution because the reality of the labour market in various countries is quite diverse. there are actually some economies that are performing well, where the protection remained quite solid, and this type of segmentation, which is mainly a characteristic of the mediterranean countries, was not apparent. in some of the forthcoming conferences, including the 16 november conference on flexi-security, we intend to continue a thorough analysis of these developments and we will come back to this next year in various initiatives.
madam president, i must agree with the commissioner, because in my country, spain, we have the experience that 80% of new contracts, especially for young people, have been temporary; contracts that are extremely flexible, but very much out of touch with the reality of our society. we do not want, in the name of the absence of a dual labour market, to give everyone the same bad conditions as some have been given. avoiding duality, yes, but not by lowering protection for all to the level of those who are currently most vulnerable. we must give our young people opportunities with contracts that allow them to improve their capacity and their integration into companies, and not destroy the safeguards that already exist in our industrial relations.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i do not really understand what this has to do with the topic, but would nevertheless like to say that all the nominations which are made for heads of representation are made by the president in agreement with the commissioner speaking to you now after a thorough passing-through of all the rules and procedures for nominating heads of representation. this was done, very thoroughly, also in the case of tallinn.
madam president, this is a matter for vice president tajani. we all recognise the importance of professional mobility in developing a versatile and competitive workforce. in fact, two of the pillars of the europe 2020 strategy are innovation and entrepreneurship. mr vice-president, as you know, we currently have erasmus for university students, the marie curie programme for researchers and erasmus for entrepreneurs. i think it would also be necessary to design a programme that gives an opportunity to young innovators in a transversal way, so that they can materialize their projects both in universities and in companies, start-ups, laboratories or government agencies. we have made a proposal to develop a pilot project called 'young innovators mobility' which goes precisely in that direction. mr president, i would like to know whether we have the support of the commission for this initiative.
madam president, i know that the current economic orientation in the european union of worshipping the free market and containing spending has a result, which is millions of victims and the dismantling of the european social state, which is an objective to be beaten. in the united states, public investment has been chosen; here we do the opposite. and within this attack on the social, indeed, the homeless are a target, to which only good intentions are responded to. i will give an example from my country, spain. unemployment is striking in spain as perhaps in no other country; in this it is the first in the european union. there are people who are out of work, people who are mortgaged, who have to pay a mortgage every month and can't pay it; therefore, the bank evicts them, takes their house, but they have to continue to pay the outstanding debt with the bank. it seems immoral to me. i know that this is not the case in other countries of the european union, that is to say, that the payment of rent is legal: the house is given away and, when the house is given away, all the accounts are settled. i think what is being done in spain is immoral, and i urge the european commission to legislate to have a common legislation to give this protection to citizens who are mortgaged, who do not have a salary to continue paying the mortgage and who, despite being deprived of their home, are still forced to pay monthly a debt that makes no sense from an ethical point of view. i therefore believe that we should not be satisfied with good intentions, but should be aware that the fundamental thing would be to change this neoliberal economic orientation which is leading us to social ruin in the european union.
madam president, i do not think this is the first debate we have had in this parliament on this subject. we held it in 2008, 2010 was the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion and we submitted a written declaration, and now we are putting an oral question to the commission. i would like to say, as a first consideration, that this parliament has always been concerned about this problem, which is a real problem. because it is often said in this house that we deal with institutional matters which do not concern the people. institutional issues are important, but this is a real issue and here we show, those of us here tonight, that we care. secondly, it is true that the commissioner said that action plans are essentially national plans. that's right, i did. but it is true that we can also do things at european level. we did so - mrs berès will recall this - when we included in the charter of fundamental rights, thanks to the pressure of this parliament, the reference to social exclusion and, among the objectives of the european union, the fight against poverty. i think that very soon we will also have an opportunity to do concrete things. i am referring to the debate and vote on the budgets of the european union. they will be held very shortly and i think this is an occasion for us to demonstrate our commitment to them. the third point i would like to make, madam president, is that it is very important to fight against social exclusion, against poverty, but it is even more important to maintain the dignity of people. the poor are people who have all the fundamental rights, and we must recognize that. i recently saw a film about father brezinski which i would recommend to my colleagues, because it shows that the fight against inequality is also linked to the fight for dignity. and finally, madam president, i do not want to overlook a fact. it seems, according to some of the speeches, that the defence of the european social model is the heritage of some political group in this house. it's not true, man. the european people's party and all the groups attach great importance to the european social model, because it is what characterizes us, because it is part of our own identity. and so, i think that all of us together - and this question shows it and the resolution also - we will fight to keep it that way.
mr. president, something is wrong. economic slowdown, stock market crashes and financial stress are the costs of a weak response. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial stability of greece and growth are the immediate priorities. the greek government must receive the strong support of the union in its efforts to restore growth. the cacophony must stop and it is time to implement the agreements of 21 july, including a marshall plan worthy of the name. financial stability is vital for the euro. the european central bank has a special responsibility as long as there is no effective capacity in the union in the field of fiscal policy. the euro area is based on fixed interest rates, but not on exchange rates that respond to an unlimited spread. the european union must ensure that its financial institutions are not a source of systemic risk and that they complete their recapitalisation processes properly. the problem is growth. over the last decade, the euro area has been the least developed in the world. surplus economies need to expand demand. a low-interest-rate scenario over the medium term can provide debt relief and contribute to economic recovery. a european public debt system is needed to give coherence to economic union, to finance the union and the member states on better terms, to allow fiscal consolidation and investment to regulate the economy and carry out structural reforms, and to make the euro an international currency. it is time to act seriously; no one can meet these challenges with the wealth, cohesion, trade balance, fiscal space and the possibility of further integration that the european union has.
mr president, we are all part of a whole and no one is saved alone. the emergency requires joint efforts and sacrifices. the union is called upon to provide leadership and to ensure that the management and decision-making mechanisms are operational in real time. monetary union cannot survive without a unified political direction. we need economic governance, a common budget, some fiscal harmonization and a contingency plan. the first priority must therefore be to discipline public accounts, correct macroeconomic imbalances and stimulate competitiveness. no one should spend more than their economic growth allows. the intergovernmental nature of the financial stability mechanism is also regrettable. the european union needs a permanent crisis resolution mechanism under the community method, a european monetary fund. if europe wants to have leadership, ladies and gentlemen, these decisions must be taken by the european parliament and the commission rather than by the council, which is bound and slowed down by governments. the member states have a duty to contribute to the decisions of the union as a whole, and they must also devote themselves to the essential task of growth and job creation. in spain, more than a year ago, our leader mariano rajoy offered his willingness to make a specific amendment to our constitution in parliament. and last week the cortes generales, after the solemn offer of the president of the government, reached a consensus on these terms. the commitment to sound public accounts cannot be a temporary one; it must be, ladies and gentlemen, permanent.
in writing. − on 10 june 2011, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. the commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the ec treaty in respect of the aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a reduction in the aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a reduction in the aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a reduction in the aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a reduction in the aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a reduction in the aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a reduction in the aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a reduction in the aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a reduction in the aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a reduction in the aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a reduction in the aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a reduction in the aid granted to the steel industry in the form of a reduction in the aid granted to the steel industry.
in writing. − on 10 june 2011, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. in this case, the commission is concerned with 1180 redundancies - 356 of which were claimed for aid - in 54 enterprises operating in the metallurgy, manufacture of iron and steel products and ferroalloys division in the austrian regions of styria and lower austria.
in writing. − on 22 june 2011, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf. the proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 610 000 from the fund to cover ec technical assistance and for objectives such as monitoring, information, the creation of a database, administrative and technical support and the exchange of best practice with the member states.
in writing. − on 28 june 2011, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. it concerns 800 redundancies in 52 companies in the graphic arts and media reproduction division in the regions of south holland and utrecht.
in writing. − on 10 june 2011, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. it concerns 199 redundancies in 14 companies in the region of north brabant.
in writing. − on 10 june 2011, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. it concerns 214 redundancies in nine graphic arts and media reproduction companies in the oversijssel region.
in writing. − on 28 june 2011, the commission adopted a new decision on the mobilisation of the egf for the netherlands. the application concerns 551 redundancies in 26 companies. i support that report.
in writing. − in favour. the ep requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to improve procedural and budgetary arrangements in order to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf; appreciates, in this sense, the improved procedure put in place by the commission, following parliament's request to accelerate the release of grants, aimed at presenting to the budgetary authority the commission's assessment on the eligibility of an egf application together with the proposal to mobilise the fund; hopes that further improvements in the procedure will be reached in the framework of the upcoming reviews of the egf and that greater efficiency, transparency and visibility of the fund will be achieved.
in writing. - i support this report which aims to establish an eu-wide legal framework to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy sector. it requires a sectoral approach, which i agree with.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the commission proposal for a regulation (‘remit’ – regulation on energy market integrity and transparency) establishes an eu-wide legal framework to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy sector (gas and electricity). this framework must be specific to the wholesale energy markets, in addition to the already existing regulations for financial markets. the inherent characteristics of energy products, misconduct specific to the energy market (such as withholding energy production assets), as well as the different regulatory objectives require a sector-specific approach, while maintaining principles compatible and coherent with financial market regulations. in the context of the integration of national energy markets into a single european market, an eu framework is necessary.
in writing. − i support this report which assesses the monitoring carried out by the commission of the application of european union law in 2009. it focuses on the commission's key role as guardian of the treaties. it reiterates that an infringement procedure consists of two stages: the administrative (investigation) stage and the judicial stage before the court of justice.
in writing. − i voted in favour. this report evaluates the commission’s monitoring of the application of european union law in 2009. it focuses on the fundamental role of the commission as ‘guardian of the treaties’ and the commission’s power and duty to bring infringement proceedings against a member state that has failed to fulfil an obligation under the treaties. it reiterates that the infringement procedure consists of two phases: the administrative (investigation) stage, and the judicial stage before the court of justice. in the administrative phase, the role of citizens (complainants) in ensuring compliance with union law on the ground is of paramount importance. bringing europe closer to its citizens and embracing techniques of good governance are intrinsically linked. one of the areas of direct interaction between ‘europe’ and eu citizens is precisely the administrative phase described in article 258 tfeu, where citizens turn to the commission and parliament for help in order to benefit from their european rights. as such, it is vital that complainants are treated according to the principles of good administration. the report therefore calls on the commission to propose a ‘procedural law’ system in the form of a regulation with the new legal basis of article 298 tfeu in order to reinforce citizens’ rights and guarantee transparency.
in writing. - i have supported this report because transparency is the general rule and because, with the lisbon treaty, access to documents has become a fundamental right of citizens with a legally binding nature. the refusal of access to documents must be based on clear exceptions and supported by sound arguments. the eu has to offer a transparent reference model.
in writing. − i voted in favour. among other things, the resolution: recalls that transparency is the general rule and that, with the lisbon treaty (and accordingly, with the acquisition of binding legal force for the eu charter of fundamental rights), it became a legally binding fundamental right of the citizen, so that any decisions denying access to documents must be based on clearly and strictly defined exceptions founded on sound arguments and reasonably explained, allowing citizens to understand the denial and to use the legal remedies available to them effectively; considers that the eu should stand at the forefront, providing a model of institutional transparency and modern democracy for the member states as well as for third countries; and recalls that transparency is the best way to prevent corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest and mismanagement.
in writing. - i have adopted this report to clarify the system of hearings of european commissioners by giving greater weight to the coordinators of each committee.
in writing. − i voted in favour. according to the adopted text, parliament: reminds the commission of the need to revise its code of conduct for commissioners, and in particular the provisions thereof concerning financial declarations by commissioners, with a view to achieving for the european union the highest standards of governance; decides to amend its rules of procedure as shown; and points out that the amendments will enter into force on the first day of the next part-session.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because of the need for full commitment to the multilateral trading system and to the wto as the guarantor of a rules-based trading system.
in writing. − i voted against. the liberalisation of agricultural commodities markets has had a terrible impact on small-scale family farming around the world, including in europe. a free market has helped ruin millions of families. as most of our key amendments were rejected, we voted against.
in writing. − in favour. the smart regulation communication expands on the presidency conclusions from the spring 2007 european council on the renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and commission president barroso’s political guidelines for the next commission in which it was suggested to turn the lisbon strategy into the ‘eu 2020’ strategy, with emphasis on competitiveness and less administrative burden through smart regulation in order to make markets work for people, and with a clear focus on public consultations, impact assessments, comitology and simplification of existing legislation. while all of this could be described, on the face of it, as a mere rebranding of the existing better regulation agenda, the placing of these issues higher up on the agenda must nevertheless be welcomed, and parliament, together with the other european institutions and the member states, must now do its part to ensure that the momentum thus gained is upheld and that activities are stepped up in all relevant areas.
in writing. − i support the 2010 annual report, which aims to provide an overview of the activities of the committee on petitions. i also voted in favour of the new procedure for registering petitions launched by the presidency and home affairs dgs of parliament.
in writing. − in favour. the 2010 annual report aims to provide an overview of the activities of the committee on petitions, for which the calendar of activities is not fixed around the legislative programme of the european commission, but rather is set by the citizens who exercise their right to petition the european parliament. the annual report aims to offer a precise and full view of the work of the committee on petitions. this report presents a series of statistics on the number of petitions received, closed or dealt with by the committee, the countries involved and the matters raised. these statistics represent an important quantitative tool for assessing the committee’s work. additional aspects, such as relations with other european institutions and with national and regional authorities or institutional changes with direct impact on the committee’s activities, complete the picture. last but not least, the report examines the progress made in implementing previous recommendations aimed at improving the work of this committee.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution to urge member states to move towards the objective of solving the problem of homeless people on public roads by 2015.
in writing. − ending homelessness is possible and must be a trans-european priority. the ep has today sent a strong message to the other institutions to stop ignoring this core issue and to establish a european strategy to end homelessness by 2020. homelessness is not only a violation of fundamental rights, it is a violation of human dignity. clearly, the economic crisis is impacting poverty across europe, with homeless the most tragic and visible link in the poverty chain. there is a need to redouble efforts to tackle homelessness, rather than just recycling empty messages, and this means developing a coordinated europe-wide strategy that covers all aspects of public policy. we need to focus on social innovation - like the ‘housing first’ approach - as the beginning of a process of social rehabilitation. this requires adequate funding at eu and national level. an eu strategy must focus on five core elements: the prevention of homelessness, the reduction of its duration, the concentration of efforts on the most serious forms, the improvement of the quality of services for homeless people, and the supply of affordable housing. the ep has taken the first step to this end and the commission and council must now act.
in writing. − in favour. among other things the european parliament: 1. notes that european and international climate policies have focused primarily on long-term reductions in co2 emissions, for example, through increased energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, and other low-carbon strategies; 2. calls for a comprehensive european climate policy which can benefit from considering all sources of warming and all mitigation options; stresses that in addition to considering co2 emission reductions, it should place emphasis on strategies that can produce the fastest climate response; 3. notes that fast-action regulatory strategies are available to phase down production and consumption of hfcs and to reduce emissions of black carbon and the gases leading to the formation of tropospheric ozone, and that these can begin within 2–3 years and be substantially implemented within 5–10 years, producing the desired climate response within decades or sooner, in particular for some hfcs at a public price as low as 5 to 10 cents per tonne, whereas the carbon price is currently over 13 euros per tonne;
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i have the pleasure of representing here the high representative/ vice-president catherine ashton, who cannot be in strasbourg this afternoon. she is on a trip to the middle east, as you probably know, to prepare for the un general assembly next week, so she has asked me to speak on her behalf and report back to her as soon as possible. for poland it is also an important signal that we take part in this debate on behalf of the high representative, because poland has been staunchly and seriously involved in the efforts of the international community to help libya. you may recall that the first foreign minister who went to benghazi was the polish foreign minister, last may. it is almost seven months since the revolution in libya began. during this time the world has witnessed the extraordinary courage and determination of the people of libya. we should take this opportunity to pay tribute to them. throughout these months, the eu has stood by the libyan people and consistently demonstrated its support for their aspirations: democracy, justice and freedom to live their lives without fear. the eu has focused its efforts on three main areas: first, the political and diplomatic arena; second, immediate support for those affected by the crisis and third, support for libya as it moves into the post-conflict period. at the beginning of the crisis an extraordinary european council was called, on 11 march, as a result of which the eu was able to articulate clear messages to the regime: the violence should stop immediately and gaddafi should go. the legitimate aspirations of the libyan people should be respected. since then, the eu has adopted a wide range of restrictive measures designed to ensure that money and arms do not reach the regime. now that gaddafi has fled tripoli and many of his followers have dispersed, the focus today is on the progressive lifting of sanctions to allow the new authorities to meet urgent needs on the ground. the eu has played a key role in the various international initiatives designed to bring about a resolution of the conflict. the high representative participated in the various meetings of the international contact group on libya and those of the so-called cairo group of international and regional organisations, which was established on her initiative. the eu will continue to engage energetically in the friends of libya group established after the summit in paris on 1 september. in the past months we have also witnessed the considerable suffering of the libyan people as a result of the actions of the regime. we have followed with profound concern the siege of misrata, the violence in the streets of tripoli and the flow of refugees from libya into neighbouring tunisia and egypt. the eu’s response has been substantial, rapid and effective. as a whole, the eu has provided more than €152 million in humanitarian assistance since the beginning of the crisis. for its part dg echo has deployed teams to benghazi and to the tunisian and egyptian borders and, as from 28 august, to tripoli too. as a result, the eu’s assistance has included help in the evacuation of more than 24 000 third-country nationals, including from misrata, and the provision of assistance to those fleeing the conflict. it has also included emergency health assistance, help for the war-wounded, protection of the civilian population, including humanitarian mine action, and the provision of adequate logistics capacity, coordination mechanisms and air transport to deliver relief aid to the beneficiaries. as early as may, the high representative visited benghazi and opened an eu office there. the eu office has allowed us to maintain direct contact with the national transitional council (ntc) as well as to coordinate european assistance on the ground together with those member states present in benghazi. we also identified, together with the ntc, areas where early support could be provided: the strengthening of civil society and the media, capacity building for the new authorities and security sector support. these activities were launched rapidly. mr president, honourable members, events in the past few weeks have moved with breath-taking speed. the regime has collapsed and those around gaddafi have fled. colonel gaddafi has been ousted from power but he retains influence to destabilise the country. according to nato, he still represents a threat to civilians. we are following closely the negotiations between the ntc and gaddafi loyalists in the few pockets of resistance. libya is entering a process of transition. the challenges that the interim authorities face are huge: ensuring stability; restoring public services and the public administration; launching a process of democratic transition; support for the economy, initiating a process of transitional justice, disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration. the coming months will be critical. the eu has been planning its support for libya in the post-conflict phase for some time. we have been guided in this by a number of principles, including libyan leadership and the need to ensure close coordination through the un with all international partners. as in the aftermath of every conflict, the libyan authorities are in need of funds to satisfy the provision of basic services to their population. in order to support them we have already de-listed 28 entities subjected to eu autonomous sanctions. we are working, both in brussels and in new york, to obtain the release of remaining frozen libyan assets as soon as possible. we are already in close contact with the ntc’s stabilisation team and with the un through the secretary general’s special adviser on post-conflict assistance. we already have staff on the ground in tripoli and, together with partners, are beginning the process of assessment of needs in critical sectors identified by the ntc. good international coordination will be essential to significantly reduce the risk of duplication of effort, and the risk of the libyan authorities being overwhelmed during this important transition stage. i am pleased to say that we have already agreed a provisional division of tasks for the ‘first needs’ assessments in libya with our libyan and international partners. finally, madam president and honourable members, i should like to thank the parliament for its strong support in the past months. the statements made and the resolutions adopted by this house, as well as the concrete actions taken by many members of the european parliament, have been instrumental in developing europe’s thinking and making our position heard.
on behalf of the ppe group commissioner, if we take into account a period of six months to end a 42-year dictatorship, it might seem, in principle, that it is a relatively short period. if we take it into account and weigh it against the loss of human life, the suffering caused and the delays that will be suffered by several generations, i think we would make a substantially different analysis. in any case, with the fall of colonel gaddafi's regime, everything remains to be done: humanitarian aid, guaranteeing security, order and control at the borders, not only economic reconstruction but also a transitional process in very difficult circumstances, and also ensuring that impunity for the crimes committed does not prevail. the representative of the presidency-in-office said - and i agree with him - that both in the nato framework and in that of the european union, thanks in particular to the action of certain member states - as was the case with france and the united kingdom - and, above all, thanks to the determination and courage of the libyan people, it has been possible to bring this odious regime to an end. but it must also be said that the european union, after some initial hesitation and within its own sphere of competence, has acted quickly and acted well. and it is true, mr minister, that this parliament was the first to ask, at the invitation of the liberal group - i should say so - for recognition of the national transitional council. and it must also be said that france was the first country to recognize the national transitional council. there is the €154 million in humanitarian aid and the opening of the office in benghazi and tripoli, which must be rapidly upgraded to the status of a delegation and for which a head of delegation with powers must be quickly appointed to take on the important task of coordinating the action of the european union with its member states and also with the office which the secretary-general of the united nations has asked the full office, the security council, to have. madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, just three days ago we commemorated in this chamber, as elsewhere in the world, the tenth anniversary of the savage attack on the twin towers. the european union must make the arab spring one of its highest priorities for two reasons: firstly, to respond to the cry for freedom and dignity that is being heard in north africa and the arab countries, and secondly, to prevent radical islamic fundamentalism from taking root in our immediate environment, to frustrate the transition processes under way in these countries and, above all, to prevent freedom from being threatened again by barbarism and fanaticism.
madam president, fortunately the libyan opposition, with the help of the international community, has managed to stand up to the gaddafi dictatorship. now we need to catch the colonel and put him on trial for the crimes, human rights violations and even possible crimes against humanity he has committed. however, the most important thing at the moment is to focus on the reconstruction of the country and to work towards libya becoming a democratic state governed by the rule of law. the regular operation of infrastructure - especially water, electricity and oil - the maintenance of public order through a police force and an effective collection of weapons distributed throughout the territory are essential elements for the security and viability of the country. we cannot forget the importance of supporting the sahel countries either. on the one hand, to avoid the very serious consequences for their security of the return of mercenaries and the flight of forces loyal to gaddafi to their territories; on the other hand, to support their institutions, which are making possible an orderly return of the libyan displaced to their homes. finally, i believe that the deployment of a united nations mission on the ground would be key to achieving the objectives set.
mr president, commissioner, i will in fact repeat what has already been said here, because it is difficult to follow any other line and it is important that the european union as such intensifies contacts with the member countries of the united nations security council and with other emerging countries, so that the position on syria is more decisive. it is clear that some member states are making efforts, but the european union must be more visible in this work, it must have more impetus, because what is really at stake at the moment is to avoid armed conflict. and the situation in syria is calling for that security council resolution that we are calling for here, a resolution that not only condemns the regime, but also supports that population that is fighting with its life for democracy and recognizes that leadership. that is why we must press for these countries which have finally recognized the national transitional council in libya to do so before military interventions take place, because nobody wants anything but to promote this peaceful transition. the message we should be sending as a parliament is that not a single person should die, despite the passivity and inaction of governments which are not currently making a peaceful transition possible.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, may i remind you and the house, as i mentioned in the first debate we had this afternoon, that the high representative is actually in the region at the moment, ahead of the un general assembly next week. there have been a number of important developments in the middle east since high representative ashton briefed you on 6 july. the quartet meeting in washington on 11 july, which was held on her initiative, was an important step in this regard. it confirmed the central role that is being played by the quartet in bringing international legitimacy to the process. it was a constructive meeting where a substantial discussion was held on how to bring the parties back to the negotiating table. it was emphasised by all that the over-riding objective is the resumption of negotiations. the parties need to be committed to a meaningful process that will produce results. unfortunately the conditions remain such that this has not yet been possible, but all quartet members are striving to achieve this objective. in the weeks that followed that meeting the high representative ensured that the momentum was retained, both in contacts with the quartet partners as well as with the parties. to this end, on 27 to 29 august, the high representative once again visited israel and the occupied palestinian territories. her visit, the latest in a series to the region this year, was aimed at once again demonstrating her commitment, and that of the eu, to the peace process and continuing her efforts to help the parties resume negotiations. this was a message she reiterated in her meetings with prime minister netanyahu and ministers barak and lieberman, as well as with president abbas and prime minister fayyad. she also wanted to express the unity of the eu in its approach, as well as its openness towards any ideas and opportunities that may be helpful to the process. the eu has repeatedly argued that the changes that have been witnessed in the neighbourhood, including changes in the countries around israel, add urgency to the need to find a solution that will enable the people of israel and the people of palestine to live in peace and security together. it is useful to recall that the eu has adopted a comprehensive position on the parameters on which it considers that negotiations should be based. this is not an attempt by the eu to establish pre-conditions, but rather a framework to allow meaningful negotiations to resume. in fact, a basic tenet of the eu position is that it would be able to accept any agreement that is reached freely by the parties. although you will be familiar with this position, i think that it would be useful to briefly outline these elements once again. they are: an agreement on the borders of the two states that is based on 4 june 1967 lines, with equivalent land swaps as may be agreed between the parties; secondly, security arrangements that, for palestinians, respect their sovereignty and show that the occupation is over and, for israelis, protect their security, prevent the resurgence of terrorism and deal effectively with new and emerging threats; thirdly, a just, fair and agreed solution to the refugee question; fourthly, fulfilment of the aspirations of both parties for jerusalem. a way must be found through negotiations to resolve the status of jerusalem as the future capital of both states. of course you will be aware that the palestinians, with the support of the arab group, have declared their intention of taking up the issue of their status at the united nations. the eu’s consistent position has been, and remains, that all efforts should focus on the resumption of negotiations. we will base our reaction to any resolution on two basic elements. first of all, it is crucial that we maintain the unity that has characterised eu efforts on the peace process over the past months. it is clear that this has strengthened our position. the second factor is that any initiative at the un should be constructive and aimed at achieving a return to negotiations. if this is the case, we should be prepared to engage and to contribute in any way that we can. those basic elements were thoroughly discussed during the informal gymnich meeting of the foreign ministers in sopot, poland, on 2 to 3 september, which the high representative also briefed on her visit to the region. of course the ministers took this opportunity to exchange views on the various aspects presented by this situation, even though there is no proposal as yet. while it might be tempting to speculate over the repercussions of the various scenarios, it would be more prudent to react to a solid proposal. there was solid agreement on the fact that eu unity is crucial. ministers reiterated their support for the high representative’s efforts and gave their backing to her endeavours. since the gymnich meeting, the high representative has remained in constant contact with all the parties involved in this issue. she has decided, before going to new york for the un general assembly, to have another round of discussions in cairo – taking advantage of a special meeting of the arab league – and in israel, where she is now. with all her different interlocutors she has reaffirmed the urgency of relaunching the peace negotiations and underlined the need to find a way out of the present stalemate. in spite of the many difficulties that remain, the eu can still play a useful role in bridging the gap between the different partners and helping to define a possible compromise. the high representative has every intention of upholding the eu’s responsibilities at this crucial moment for the whole middle east. no-one can doubt that the process of reaching a compromise is going to be very complicated, but the eu cannot renounce what many have described as its moral obligation to strive for peace and reconciliation. irrespective of how matters evolve, i must express concern at the financial stability of the palestinian authority. the eu and member states remain committed contributors, but the situation is critical. other donors have not yet fulfilled their pledges; we should make every effort to encourage them to do so. the eu is on record as having recognised that the palestinian institutions have achieved a level of preparedness that is sufficient to support the obligations of statehood. this is the result of the vision and very hard work of palestinian leaders, who have been able to accomplish this with a great deal of support and expertise provided by the eu, among others. we are therefore duty-bound to ensure that what has been achieved will not be needlessly lost.
on behalf of the ppe group the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this issue can be approached from an external perspective - the implications that the outcome of the general assembly may have on the peace process and any change to the status quo matter, and matter a lot - and from a perspective of the internal dimension of the european union. as regards the external perspective, the peace process - as the representative of the presidency-in-office has just told us - is blocked. we are witnessing an increase in tension in the region - and one of the most tangible proofs of this has been the invasion of the israeli embassy in egypt - and also in a very particular circumstance of the us government, where president obama will have difficulty in fulfilling his purposes announced in the inaugural speech in cairo, because of the internal situation of the united states itself and also as a consequence of the electoral process that he will have to face shortly. mr president, in politics, what is not possible is false, and without prejudging the content of the resolution that is to be adopted, i think we must prepare ourselves for the adoption of a draft resolution that improves the status of palestine within the organization. and this brings me to the internal dimension of the problem: what matters is that the european union can speak with one voice on this sensitive issue. the experiences we have had within the organization have not been very glorious. it is true that we have revised our position in the light of the new mechanisms established by the treaty of lisbon, and i believe that we must concentrate all our efforts on three objectives: to make progress in the peace process and to unblock the status quo of no negotiations; to avoid compromises which would jeopardize the chances of making progress along these lines; and to avoid offending the dignity of either side in the conflict. on this point, mr president, i believe that the great strength of the european union is its unity and that our division is our great weakness. i would therefore ask the representative of the presidency - and i know that the commissioner and the high representative are making every effort to do so - that the european union, on this sensitive issue, should not once again show any signs of division and should instead appear united in making a positive and active contribution to the progress of this conflict.
the problem, mrs. ries, is that for the blue card and the answer, you have thirty seconds each. anyway, your answer was clear.
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the european parliament has a duty to protect the european union's citizens. today's debate, so rich in its many facets, demonstrates the importance of the middle east peace process. i am going to pass on the various issues that have arisen in today's debate to the high representative, because - as we all know - in the coming days and weeks, her involvement in these matters will be of the utmost priority. i think that in summing up this debate we can all agree that the european union cannot waste a day or any effort if it wants to support the peace process. i think it's very important that diplomacy becomes the tool that decides the future of this region. we hope that diplomacy will begin to bear fruit in the coming weeks. we also believe that the european union will play a very important role in this process. i would also like to point out that we have also spoken today about other subjects which have been directly raised by some members. i'd like to say a few words about the situation at camp ashraf. the high representative is fully aware of the situation in this camp. it has recently discussed this with member states, stressing the sensitivity and sensitivity of the issue and, above all, the crucial humanitarian situation. meps should be fully aware that the high representative is acting with determination and that she is fully mobilised with all the partners involved in this matter, namely iraq, the united nations and the member states of the european union. e high representative will seek to work towards a solution to this very difficult problem. thank you for this debate, but i don't want to summarize it completely because, as i said, there were many issues. i would also like to thank parliament for its strong commitment to the debate on the future of the middle east and the peace process.
this closes this spot. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the order of business for the debate on the oral question to the council on bridging the gap between anti-corruption legislation and reality, by ms monica luisa macovei, ms maria nedelcheva, mr simon busuttil and mr martin martin, mr martin martin and mr martin martin, between mr claude gonzalez, mr louis izcardo, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr martin, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr, mr
mr president, corruption is as big as the annual budget of the european union. four out of five citizens consider corruption to be one of the biggest problems in the member states. on 6 june the commission published the package of measures to combat corruption. let's hear it. these include the promulgation of updated community rules on public procurement, auditing and regulatory oversight of union companies, the preparation of a biannual report identifying corruption trends, measures relating to the confiscation of proceeds of crime, a strategy to improve investigations into financial crimes and the action plan to improve statistics on corruption offences. such proposals are welcomed. however, there are concerns about the different enforcement by member states, especially when we take into account the data provided by the oecd report, according to which, of the 27 member states of the union, 12 lack anti-corruption rules or have minimum and insufficient rules. we therefore doubt the commission's real ability, regardless of its best intentions, to enforce the measures it proposes, which is why it must go further and ensure that all the member states make a real commitment to fight corruption, something that is very necessary, beyond the group of experts, political will and the general public. we are asking for binding legal specifications. that is indeed what we are asking for.
mr president, i shall use my time to express my full support for the adoption of this resolution. this parliament is right to support the work carried out by the council at the time, and now by the commission, in promoting this important anti-corruption package, because this parliament is right to take seriously article 67 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which recalls that there is a mandate for the approximation of criminal laws in the face of transnational organised crime, and article 83, which reminds us that corruption is a very serious and clear case of transnational organised crime that is economically important, not only in times of crisis - although also and above all in this moment of crisis - because it amounts to 1% of the gross domestic product of the european union - €120 million as has been shown - but also politically important, because corruption undermines the precious bond of trust between governors and representatives, between governed and represented, and ultimately corruption is causing an unanticipated damage to the trust between the european union and its citizens, and ultimately to the political and political life of the european union. to take the fight against corruption seriously means, therefore, to remind those member states which have not yet signed the council of europe conventions against corruption in civil and criminal matters that they must do so; to remind those member states which have not yet standardised their legislation and their criminal and prosecutorial apparatus for the crime of corruption; and it also means to tell citizens very clearly that we want to recover, also through the fight against corruption, democratic politics and citizenship.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you to those of you who are left. i think it has been a most useful debate and it shows that we are taking seriously the concerns of citizens, to which many of you have referred. the vast majority of our citizens are very concerned about corruption and want europe to act more in this regard. as many of you have also said, there are clear links between corruption and organised crime; there are huge amounts of money involved – taxpayers’ money, citizens’ money – that could be used for other things, especially in these times of austerity. corruption also erodes the legitimacy of the political system of all of us, of our authorities and of our public institutions, and that is devastating for a democracy. corruption is also therefore a threat to our democracy. we have to remind many of our political leaders that they actually ran for election on a non-corruption agenda. i think it is time to deliver on that right now because, as i have said and many of you have repeated, it is not lack of legislation that is the problem: it is lack of implementation and it is lack of political will. the commission is of course not the police. we cannot send anti-corruption squads to different member states, but we can work with the existing networks, with civil society, with europol, with eurojust, with the experts’ group that we will set up and the groups that already exist in member states, in order to get a better picture of what needs to be done. we must push for implementation of what has been decided and ratification of international instruments. i do not think we are in a position, mr moraes, to make an intermediate report, but we will not sit silent until 2013. we will have hearings, we will have seminars, we will have different activities, public consultations with all of you involved and we will try to develop those indicators, those definitions that are so important, yet very difficult, and that we need to get right. in all this, i would like to work very closely with the european parliament. the report is of course not a magic wand, but we can describe the state of play in the different member states, we can identify shortcomings, we can make recommendations, and i would like very much to work on a thematic aspect. public procurement would, of course, be one of the most prioritised themes that we would highlight. we need to keep on pushing. mr ehrenhauser, i would like to say to you that protection of whistleblowers throughout the eu is very important and there is very uneven protection of whistleblowers in the member states at present, and this is also something we need to look at. there is a lot to do. one very important element is to keep the debate alive all the time, to keep on pushing, and i am looking forward to working with all of you in this very important area.
the president of the council in office. - mr president! - what are you doing? ladies and gentlemen! you have had a very interesting discussion which confirms the importance of the issue we are talking about today, not only in terms of financial impact but above all in something that is perhaps even more important: the loss of trust between the governed and the governed. what is necessary for any real impact on public life, not just the force of law, but above all the application of that law. i have twice stressed the need for transparency in areas where corruption is particularly prone. if we spread out into all the realms, we'll probably be less effective. focusing on what will clearly outperform this first report, on the dominant spheres and not just subjectively dominant, but with the participation of experts, scientists, measured and in a standardised way presented comparing member states in selected sectors exposed to corruption. the issue of the implementation of the anti-corruption law. this is indeed a shameful part of the backwardness of some member states and the council should certainly draw attention to the need to complement action in this area. on the other hand, i am realistic that merely transposing european law into national law is not the solution. the solution is to apply this law effectively. we know from the indicators we're using today that sometimes countries that have the full range of laws are not the least affected by the disease of corruption. effective law enforcement, and this in the context of interstate cooperation, both police and judicial, is essential to achieve significant progress. transparency of sanctions. if we are not equally transparent in enforcing the consequences of corruption violations, this dialogue between the governed and the governed will also not be complete. and there's one other very important point. sharing of good practice between member states. after all, not everywhere in the european union is this corruption so severe, and therefore there is the possibility of transferring good practices from one country to another, it is only a matter of persistence and consistency. and the last point, which i also emphasized to myself, is the taking of assets from corruption. this issue, which is not only about corruption but also about other forms of organised crime, is not the strongest point of the member states either, and it is known that the delay in the effect, which was expected much earlier, is still a matter of discussion. in conclusion, the council will seek to mobilise member states with a lagging legislative process to catch up and, by sharing their achievements, reduce corruption, especially in those areas that are particularly vulnerable to it.
the debate is closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) tabled in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
mr president, commissioner, we must admit that this debate is late. thirteen million people are now suffering the worst consequences of a famine whose signs began to be felt at the end of 2010 and to which successive warnings and appeals, including those from the un secretary-general himself, have been of no avail. i would like to acknowledge and thank the fundamental role played in this crisis by civil society organisations, in particular many european ngos which have a longstanding presence in the drought-affected areas, which have prevented us from the emergency and are the ones who, with limited resources, are assisting the victims of this catastrophe. as the united nations high commissioner for human rights has recently pointed out, this famine in the horn of africa is a violation of human rights. the objective of all must be to secure that basic right to water and food. this emergency also reminds us that it is more important than ever to respond to the global food crisis, caused in large part by the increase in food prices due to speculation in derivatives markets. we must be committed to strong regulation to prevent those who have less from falling victim to those who speculate on what is most needed, basic foodstuffs. we europeans have a moral obligation, madam commissioner; we must commit ourselves politically to a greater extent if we are to tackle together with the actors involved the real political, social and environmental causes of poverty in the region, and in the 21st century a humanitarian catastrophe like the present one can never, or should never, be repeated.
member of the commission. − mr president, what we are witnessing in the horn of africa is a huge tragedy. millions of people are affected and every day, every hour, as has been said, children and women are dying. it is likely to get worse. you are absolutely right to underline the need to combine immediate action with long-term action, and this is what we are trying to do. i referred in my initial speech to what we are doing immediately to alleviate the situation on the ground and in the refugee camps, but we are also preparing economically in the next budget – and also with those countries involved – more long-term issues. we are engaging in development programmes for agricultural capacity building, production capacity, nutrition, sharing of best practices and better preparedness for the future. this is very important. as you all have underlined as well, the security situation is very bad. we have al-shabaab in somalia and we have a very problematic situation in eritrea limiting access for the ngos to the affected regions. conflicts, failed states, lack of democracy are, of course, key issues here as well, and we must work together in the international community with the ngos, with the african union to see how in the future we can better coordinate our action and how we can ensure that the access is really there. the commission has acted quickly and we stand ready to do more. the challenge is huge. we need to work together – the european parliament, the commission and the member states – as the conflict will still remain, the famine will still be there when the pictures of starving children are not on the tv anymore, and these people will still be in desperate need of help, so we must make sure that the world does not forget and that we are still fulfilling our moral obligations to assist these people.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the commission statement on the eu's position and commitment in the run-up to the un high level meeting on the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases.
member of the commission. − mr president, behind the label of non-communicable diseases there is, as has been pointed out, a huge list of diseases that are influencing our health and our well-being and the costs to our societies, so there is a very important reason to act and to take preventive action. i would like to thank you for all your views; you can be sure that they will be communicated to commissioner dalli. i will try to answer a few of your questions. ms willmott asked about the tobacco directive. it is a complicated issue. we are working very thoroughly on that. we are making sure that there is the highest quality in the impact assessment and that we can provide a convincing evidence base; it will come before the summer. mr liese emphasised the issue of salt. as you know, member states have agreed to decrease the amount of salt in food by 16% in the coming four years. that is an excellent example of how member states can act without directives coming from the commission. mrs schaldemose, we are looking forward to working with the danish presidency, whatever form it takes, on the struggle against diabetes. it is a very important issue, as you so rightly underlined. madame grossetête, concernant le mandat de l'agence à stockholm, nous sommes en train de l'évaluer. l'année prochaine, toutes ces considérations seront bien évidemment prises en considération en fonction de nos ressources. il faudra revenir sur ce point plus tard. as you know, the council has asked the commission and member states to engage in a reflection process on how we can best respond to chronic and non-communicable diseases. we are working with member states, with stakeholders and with the european parliament in this reflection process and from that we shall see what further action we can take together. the united nations meeting is, of course, a very important opportunity for stepping up our efforts. we will pursue the challenge with determination and energy, and we will continue to be a strong ally and committed international partner in preventing and combating non-communicable diseases worldwide. i thank you very much for a very fruitful debate.
it was indeed a very interesting debate. it is remarkable, both from a statistical and a sociological point of view, that out of 18 speeches, 13 were made by women members, who, when we are dealing with matters of this nature and importance, seem to be more committed than their male colleagues in this field, and i should like to congratulate them for this. the debate was closed by two motions for resolutions, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the eu's political approach to the itu world radiocommunication conference 2012 by herbert reul, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000180/2011 b7-0429/2011).
in writing. − i voted in favour. this resolution addresses, in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the association agreement, the following recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service (eeas): (a) to base the eu engagement and ongoing negotiations with the republic of moldova on the assertion that the eu perspective, including article 49 of the treaty on the european union, which should go hand in hand with the implementation of structural reforms, is both a valuable lever in the implementation of reforms and necessary catalyst for public support for these reforms; (b) to apply in relations with the republic of moldova the principles of ‘more for more’ and differentiation based on the individual merits and accomplishments of the republic of moldova over the last two years; (c) to welcome the stable and progressive cooperation on the part of the republic of moldova in the ongoing negotiations on the association agreement and on the various elements of cooperation, including foreign and security policy, energy cooperation, human rights and trade, which has led to the successful and timely closure of most chapters of the negotiations.
in writing. - i'm with you. i am also one of those who are impatiently awaiting the end of the six-month conflict in libya, and we must applaud the fall, after 42 years, of the autocratic regime of muammar gaddafi, responsible for the long and immense suffering of the libyan people.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the european parliament:‘1. strongly condemns the escalating use of force against peaceful protesters and the brutal and systematic persecution of pro-democracy activists, human rights defenders and journalists; expresses its deepest concern at the gravity of the human rights violations perpetrated by the syrian authorities, including mass arrests, extrajudicial killings, arbitrary detention, disappearances and torture;2. expresses its sincere condolences to the families of the victims and its solidarity with the syrian people fighting for their rights, commends their courage and determination and strongly supports their aspirations to achieve full respect of the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms and the guarantee of better economic and social conditions’.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the european parliament:‘1. welcomes the adoption by the commission on 6 june 2011 of an anti-corruption package, which includes a communication on fighting corruption in the eu and a decision establishing the “eu anti-corruption report”; 2. calls on the commission to prioritise the fight against corruption in the context of its security agenda for the years to come, including as regards the human resources allocated to it;3. calls on the commission to address through its reporting mechanism the key concern of effective implementation of anticorruption laws, as well as dissuasive sanctions, including those imposed by law enforcement and judiciary;4. calls on the commission to address the transposition and enforcement of eu anti-corruption legislation, including dissuasive sanctions, and to take steps to stimulate the transposition and enforcement by the member states of relevant international and regional anticorruption instruments’.
in writing. − in favour. the ep resolution: 1. expresses its deepest sorrow at the loss of life and suffering in the region; calls for increased mobilisation of eu aid to areas where the famine is most severe to provide food aid, healthcare, clean water and sanitation supplies to the most vulnerable; 3. demands that all sides immediately end abuses against civilians, especially women and children, hold those responsible to account and ensure access to aid and the free movement of all people fleeing conflict and drought; strongly condemns the role of the islamist militant group al-shabaab in obstructing the efforts of aid agencies and the wfp to deliver food aid; reminds all countries in the region of the need to assist and protect refugees under international law; 4. calls for greater mobilisation of the international community, which should redouble its efforts to tackle this emergency in order to meet the growing humanitarian needs and prevent a further deterioration in the situation, bearing in mind the inadequate financing available.
in writing. − in favour. in particular, because it calls on the eu and its member states to endorse the following five key commitments and include them in the political statement to be issued at the un high-level meeting on ncds in september 2011: the reduction of preventable ncd mortality by 25% by 2025, as proposed by the who; the implementation of cost-effective and cost-saving interventions, including the speedier implementation of the who framework convention on tobacco control, better access to and the promotion of healthy diets, including action to reduce salt, sugar, saturated fat and transfat intakes, effective measures to combat the harmful use of alcohol, and access to and the promotion of physical activities, as well as a population-wide reduction in exposure to environmental pollution; the monitoring of trends in ncd mortality and the common risk factors for ncds; the development of global and national accountability mechanisms for all key stakeholders involved; the establishment in 2012 of a high-level partnership to foster the implementation of the recommendations and the organisation in 2014 of a high-level meeting to review the degree to which commitments have been honoured.
in writing. − in favour. this resolution: 1. welcomes the communication of the commission and agrees with the analysis of the importance of the impact of the wrc-12 on eu policies; 2. believes that the eu must speak with one voice in multilateral negotiations to promote its interests and to create global synergies and economies of scale in the use of spectrum; therefore, strongly encourages the member states to fully endorse these policy orientations and to actively promote and defend them in the wrc-12; furthermore, believes that, as long as the commission does not hold the right in itu to speak on behalf of the eu, the member states should closely coordinate a common union position on the basis of the rspp, together with the commission; and 3. draws attention to the 25 individual agenda items of the wrc-12 and their potential impact on eu policies and objectives.
author. − mr president, this is not the first time we have talked about belarus. we must express, once again, our deep concern about the increasingly deteriorating situation of human rights defenders in belarus. i am very glad we agreed that the joint resolution should stress that the belarusian authorities took advantage of international cooperation, notably of the financial information on bank accounts provided by the polish and lithuanian authorities, using the system of international procedures and agreements on financial transfers - meant to track terrorists and criminals - in order to take full control of the non-governmental civil society organisations and belarusian democratic opposition as well as to discredit the eu assistance to belarus civil society. this needed to be condemned and we regret the irresponsible action of the polish and lithuanian financial authorities. however, i regret that the joint resolution fails also to deplore the collaboration of the bank of scotland and some other european banks with the lukashenko regime in capital-raising work in spite of eu sanctions. i think that is very serious. it is true that they have taken the decision to finally end this activity, but still we should call on all european banks and financial institutions to stop all forms of financial cooperation with the belarusian authorities. i take this opportunity to remind us all of these important points and the need to stop doing ‘business as usual’, as we have done in the past with some dictatorial regimes.
madam president, i would like to thank mrs matias for her report. i would insist and say to mrs geoghegan-quinn a few things: first, don't forget the small projects; silicon valley was developed from small projects! europe needs many small projects to bring in small universities. secondly, i believe that what we lack in europe is human resources. the large projects should be linked to a scholarship programme so that the large universities and institutes have more scholars and we can train them. i think that both the structural funds and this system should give less importance to buildings (there are too many buildings in europe and, on the other hand, there is a lack of human resources). in the same way, i believe, madam commissioner, that you will find the full support of parliament if you require countries, through the european research area (era), to make their procedures also simplifying. the simplification and the effort that europe is making must be matched by transparent procedures on the part of the countries which, as they are going to receive money, must commit themselves. commissioner, you will find the full support of parliament if we seek that simplification and transparency of council procedures.
mr president, other days i regret our ambiguity, but today i am proud to be european. i am glad that we are approving this report, the ultimate aim of which is to contribute to the economic development of palestine. the approval of this agreement also comes at a crucial moment for the future of this arab nation, which has just applied for full membership of the united nations. this agreement is good because it will improve the lives and the prospects of many people who live under a triple oppression: first, the one that produces poverty. in addition, the absence of freedom and the permanent infringement of their fundamental rights. and this trade agreement is a way of turning the council conclusions on the middle east peace process, adopted on 8 december 2009, into more than words. we are contributing to peace and a solution with a little justice and for that we have to be proud.
mr president, the european union is taiwan's fifth largest trading partner, while the asian island is the union's 14th largest trading partner. trade between the two sides has increased by 800% in recent decades, reaching an annual volume of eur 27.5 billion. trade between the union and taiwan grew by 39% in the past year alone. this growth has been helped by measures such as the visa exemption, the bonus provided for in regulation (ec) no 539/2001. despite this and the fact that the europe 2020 strategy focuses on the need for the union to increase its trade relations with emerging and growing markets, relations with taiwan in this area have not reached their full development. the commission has already taken a number of important steps in this direction, including the establishment of a special committee to examine the situation in the taiwanese market, the establishment of a special committee to examine the situation in the taiwanese market, and the establishment of a special committee to examine the situation in the taiwanese market. the free trade agreement is necessary and will benefit the parties. it is not enough, commissioner, to have a good trade dialogue. we have to go much further. on the other hand, no one can veto our relations, and the ties between taiwan and the people's republic of china are getting stronger by the day, and we, the european union, are sovereign in deciding, without interference from anyone, with whom we negotiate our free trade agreements.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr fidanza on his report, which defends competitive and innovative tourism, which is true, but also ethical and sustainable. i am grateful to you for having taken up our demands on the special needs of the outermost regions. i also congratulate vice-president tajani on his willingness to make up for lost time in this sector. we will never be happy enough to have achieved a legal basis in the treaty of lisbon, but now we must secure the financial resources, the financing. i am particularly pleased that the need to draw on the excellent lessons of the calypso programme for social tourism is confirmed in order to unleash the sector's seasonality, because we need to promote tourism for all europeans, whatever their economic or social situation. and i welcome the agreements with latin america and i support their policy, which i hope will make it easier for these tourists to obtain visas. i think it is particularly important to specialise tourism in order to improve its quality: heritage, thermal and health tourism, gastronomic, sports, rural and even shopping tourism, why not? i also think that progress is essential in making tourists with reduced mobility more accessible, in improving tourists' rights and in establishing a strategy of training and employment excellence for workers in the sector together with the social partners. we need good professionals, because they are the guarantee of european leadership in this sector. but for all this, i repeat, financial resources are needed. the commission has already given its support to the debate on the financial perspective. so i ask you, mr tajani, to be as ambitious as the sector deserves. we'll support you.
mr president, commissioner, i shall support this report because i believe it embodies several of the principles which should always guide us in the construction of europe. the report recognises that our different traditions, customs and even languages are an expression of our diversity but also an economic asset that is most visible in the tourism industry. the report therefore starts from the basis of taking this diversity from the bottom up, enhancing it, using training, innovation and new technologies, and thus building a common european brand of quality tourism. it is the tourism implementation of the three keys of the 2020 strategy: smart, sustainable and inclusive development. an expression of these principles is the basque culinary center that is opening this week in donostia san sebastián. the university of mondragón and basque chefs have created, with the support of public institutions, the first faculty of gastronomic sciences and a centre for research and innovation in food and gastronomy: quality and training at the service of the values that should characterize the european brand of tourism.
mr president, i am a councillor from a small town in central spain and, while it is true that the tourism sector represents an opportunity for the whole of the european union, it is much more relevant for all our rural areas for three reasons: firstly, because it diversifies the economy, providing a new opportunity for women and young people, which also means a policy to fix the population in our rural areas; because they are activities that are also totally complementary to the activities of the primary sector, even reinforcing them in the case of agro-tourism, and because, unlike the coastal sector, there is not so much seasonalization, so it can also mean new jobs of longer duration and of higher quality. i would therefore like to stress that this report must not make the mistake of setting out a european strategy based, once again, on the coastal or urban sector, and of betting on the rural, especially in terms of its competitiveness, investment, training, innovation, its commitment to excellence and uniformity of quality criteria and greater visibility, also by incorporating rural tourism in a transversal way in all the actions carried out by the commission. i therefore congratulate the commission and the rapporteur on this initiative and on this report.
in writing. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, carlo fidanza, for his excellent report and the work done in incorporating the many ideas expressed in this house to make european tourism a vital asset in our economy. tourism is one of the union's main sources of income, and in my country, spain, a sound tourism policy is essential to continue attracting tourists from all over the world and to help foster economic growth in a time of crisis. for the first time parliament has expressed itself politically on this subject and has done so by supporting the work of the commission, but at the same time, by bringing in new ideas which enrich the future tourism policy after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. it is not a question of harmonizing, a matter forbidden by article 195 of the treaty itself, but of complementing national policies to improve the quality of services, to link the 'european brand' to the national one, to develop budget lines that reinforce national policies. in order to combat the seasonality of the sector, i have contributed to giving greater prominence to social tourism, paying special attention to elderly tourism from the spanish experience. i have considered it essential to support smes and to develop the entrepreneurial spirit of the sector as a source of employment. the aim is to consolidate europe's image and visibility as a collection of sustainable and quality destinations and to foster the competitiveness of the tourism sector. in a globalised world where new markets are opening up, parliament has an undeniable opportunity to keep europe as the world's leading tourist destination and to contribute to economic growth through the rapprochement of cultures.
mr president, on 19 october the commission will present a map of the priorities of the ten-t core network. we need more than ever a strong mandate from the commission in favour of efficiency in the investment policy-making process. we expect strong leadership from the commission to overcome pressures coming from some inefficient member states. the ten-t core network has to be compulsory for member states. it has to harmonise gauge width and the length of the trains. we need more than ever common european technical standards. we also expect from the commission a clear priorities map based on a cost/benefit analysis. the core network should maximise the macro-economic benefits in terms of economic growth and job creation. it is time to connect the main european ports and industrial regions with the main european markets. this is especially important in the case of the mediterranean nations and regions. the risk of economic divergence between north and south must be avoided.
madam president, the euro crisis is worsening in an alarming way and the measures taken so far have not succeeded in relieving the pressure on the single currency. it is vital that the european union gives clear signals of its soundness in decision-making. in this context, the decision on which projects will be included as priorities in the review of the transeuropean transport core network will serve to determine how far we are on the right path to exit the crisis. in this sense, the mediterranean corridor is a vital infrastructure for the future of the union, and to exclude it from the european transport priorities would be to acknowledge the lack of consistency in the measures taken by the european institutions. no one would understand that the decision criteria were not those of viability, efficiency and productivity, which are what justify the priority of the mediterranean corridor. only by making sound, reasoned decisions and with a clear economic sense will we be able to restore confidence in the future of the union and the euro.
madam president, on 29 june a group of taliban terrorists murdered my fellow spaniard, mr antonio planas, 49, married and father of a girl, in kabul. until a few days ago, certain spaniards who were victims of terrorist attacks outside the territory of the union were not able to access protection and reparation measures, but on 23 december the legislation was amended in favour of victims of terrorism and their relatives, regardless of the country where the attack occurred. the threat is not territorial and must be prevented at national, community and international levels by strengthening cooperation with third countries. the defence of victims of terrorism and their rights must be a priority policy of the union, and the institutions need to promote their public recognition. in this respect, we welcome the measures proposed by the commission, although more concrete instruments are lacking in favour of the victims of terrorism. the family of don antonio planas needs our help, and we urge the institutions concerned to provide it.
the commission's vice-president - the madam president, first of all i would like to thank mr cavada for his report and for his outstanding cooperation and support for the european schools. it's really very important... i am very glad that almost all the speakers today support the european schools system. it is very important for me and for the commission, and i am sure it is very important for the european schools, because parliament is a legislator. its voice will be very important when we discuss budgetary and other issues. the european parliament will be well aware that the european schools are of great importance to me and to the whole commission. i fully agree with mr cavada when he argues in his report that the european schools cannot be considered elitist and a luxury, rather than a necessity. they are essential for the european institutions and fundamental for a smooth-functioning public service with a large number of expatriate staff from all over europe. the commission welcomes this report on the european school system and is in full agreement with its main guidelines. first, let me mention the opening up of the system and the european baccalaureate. the commission fully supports the extension of the european curriculum in the member states via the pedagogical accreditation of national schools with a view to developing a european forum for schooling and improving professional mobility. in fact, pupils who have spent all or part of their school lives in the multicultural and multilingual environment which the european schools provide begin their working life with an enormous advantage. the holders of the european baccalaureate go on to study all over europe. their openness towards others and their ability to adapt to new environments single them out. this should also be the foundation stone of their future development as european citizens. last may, i went to the council to remind the member states of this opportunity, and i recently wrote a letter to the ministers for education to encourage them to open up their national systems. the commission also agrees that the system is currently experiencing some structural shortcomings, and has been for some time. we have to face several challenges in the near future concerning the governance of the system, the infrastructure to be provided by the host member states, the secondment of teachers by some member states, the budgetary constraint of the eu budget contribution, and so on. these difficulties can pose serious problems to some schools and parents. i am fully aware of that but we, together with the member states, and you, the members of the european parliament, have to address those questions and find the best practical answers. as regards the governance system, the commission stresses the need for a solution to the existing deficiencies, but bears in mind that a change to the intergovernmental structure was proposed during the last reform process and was unanimously rejected by the member states during the negotiations. with the recent experience of the member states' reaction to the concept of reform of the governance aspects, and in particular the intergovernmental structure, the commission is hesitant to reopen a fundamental debate with the member states on this issue, which could be very long and far from a guarantee for a constructive solution. the commission is convinced that the necessary adjustment, notably giving the eu institutions a weight corresponding to their financial contribution, can be made within the framework of the existing convention, even though this depends on the member states' commitment and goodwill as well. to give another example, under the current convention, member states which contribute less to the system than their quota of seconded teachers in relation to the number of national pupils can compensate for their deficit by way of a financial contribution. in the letter i recently sent to the member states' ministers for education, i drew the attention of those concerned to the obligation arising from the agreement on the european schools. the report also mentions alternative means of financing that could be explored. the commission agrees that this is an option to take into account. for example, we could take inspiration from the arrangements made by the european school in karlsruhe. as far as the general budget of the european schools is concerned, the commission has intensively supported cost-efficient solutions in order to keep the evolution of the budget under control. these include adapting seconded teachers' salaries along the lines followed for staff of the eu institutions in the 2004 reform and rationalising the practical organisation of studies within the schools, which was decided by the board of governors in april this year. it remains the commission's clear priority that the core curriculum should not be affected by these rationalisation measures. as mentioned in the report, the commission fully agrees that the quality of education must be safeguarded. it is absolutely essential for the pupils to receive the education required for access to higher education after the european baccalaureate. as far as pedagogical methods are concerned, the commission fully agrees with the rapporteur that the european baccalaureate must be recognised in all member states and that pupils must be treated under the same conditions as nationals of each country. the commission is following this process very closely. the report also mentions the importance of the support given to pupils with special educational needs, the socalled sen pupils. indeed, everything should be done to help sen children to follow the curriculum as far as they can be integrated in the european schools, while bearing in mind that the european schools are ordinary schools and not specialised schools. in the current context, i am very much in favour of the idea of an external evaluation of the schools' pedagogical performance. the best way to do that is to use the pisa study, which the oecd has been carrying out for many years. i am glad to say that one european school the one in luxembourg is already involved, with brilliant results. all the european schools should participate in this evaluation. the secretary-general and the directors agree that this approach is the most efficient way to make an evaluation. the commission proposed this last june. it should be discussed this autumn so that the board of governors can take a decision in december. in conclusion, i would like to thank you for showing an active interest in the european school system and in the future educational possibilities of more than 22 000 pupils and, hopefully soon, of even more european pupils.
madam president, despite the late hour and the late hour, we are discussing a fundamental issue: how to optimise the absorption of the structural funds and the cohesion fund in order to achieve the maximum contribution of the available resources of regional policy to economic and social cohesion. the main factors causing absorption problems need to be corrected and the simplification and flexibility of rules and procedures, the access of project promoters to european funds and the sound management of these funds by the administrative services need to be encouraged. we should also pursue and punish fraud rather than focusing on minor formal irregularities and promote greater synergy and complementarity between the funds. finally, i would like to stress specifically the importance of achieving maximum efficiency in the implementation of the european social fund in order to respond to the current employment challenges arising from the current financial recession. ladies and gentlemen, we must recover a sense of direction for the european project, because europe can be built on need, but it also needs ambition.
madam president, i very much welcome mrs gardini's report: there is a great deal of effort. however, i would like to see it studied the day after, in addition to prevention. one of the most serious problems we have in haiti, in lorca, for example, in the recent earthquake, and in l'aquila, is precisely that, at the moment when lives have already been saved, life has already returned to normal, cities have to be rebuilt, cities that took years and thousands of years to build, suddenly they have to be raised again. and we have to lift them up, and there's a science and technology to help them. you can't build after an earthquake on all floors. we'll have to see which floors are the most suitable. where is the unit in the european union that is responsible for coordinating all this knowledge that is in all the sections? they say new cities have to be energy-efficient, they have to be smart cities, but how do we take the step from a destroyed city to a smart city? europe, in that case, has abandoned its citizens. he has not taken any coordination measures. and, commissioner, we must coordinate reconstruction and genuine prevention in the event of floods. we need to see how the rivers can be regulated. other countries, such as spain, have largely succeeded. you can't stop talking about a disaster the next day. that is why i am much more concerned about the day after tomorrow, and i believe that europe must start working on this.
member of the commission. − i would just add that what really matters is action. i do not want to speculate on this, and would just refer members to the statement.
i would like to ask how the principles and objectives of the european union's development policy are being integrated into the reform of the generalized system of preferences, primarily to ensure that the coherence of development policies, as the treaty on european union requires, is compatible with this reform of the preferences system.
mr president, all the measures we have just adopted will help to reduce the number of injuries and deaths, especially two measures: zero tolerance in blood alcohol tests and the use of alcohol-locking devices. i regret, however, that the first of these rules applies permanently only to professional drivers and the second only to commercial vehicles for the transport of passengers and goods. and with a little tolerance. we must work in the future to extend both measures to all drivers and all circumstances, because we can all cause accidents, and we must also work to be consistent and to remove the margin of tolerance in the 'calcolocks'. we all cause accidents, and that is why we should not criminalise people in the transport sector either.
in writing. − in favour. the present revision of the existing eu-palestinian association agreement from 2005 provides for the removal of essentially all duties and quotas for palestinian agricultural and fisheries products originating in the west bank and the gaza strip. the revision was negotiated between may and december 2010. the result was signed in april 2011, in the form of an exchange of letters. the ep had to give its consent. the trade volume of products from palestine entering the eu is rather limited (in 2009, the amount of imports was eur 6.1 million, with an increase of 32.6 % in 2010). the elimination of tariffs and quotas would not significantly change the eu import landscape. accordingly, the inta battle was around the political approach.
in writing. − in favour. international aviation relations between member states and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements. the eu court of justice ruled in 2002 that traditional designation clauses in member states’ bilateral air services agreements infringe eu law. they allow a third country to reject, withdraw or suspend the permissions or authorisations of an air carrier that has been designated by a member state but that is not substantially owned and effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. this has been found to constitute discrimination against eu carriers established in the territory of a member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. this is contrary to article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which guarantees nationals of member states who have exercised their freedom of establishment the same treatment in the host member state as that accorded to nationals of that member state. there are also further issues, such as competition, where compliance with eu law should be ensured through amending or complementing existing provisions in bilateral air services agreements between member states and third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the fisheries agreement with cape verde because its content improves on the previous one for several reasons. firstly, it maintains the fees for shipowners per tonne caught (they do not increase), reduces the advances and improves the fishing capacity of tuna seiners, even if the compensation for the decrease in surface longliners is calculated in accordance with the use observed in the previous convention. it is also more demanding on the clauses that make the maintenance of the agreement conditional on respect for human rights in the area. finally, it improves support for the cape verdean sector and insists on responsible fishing by obliging the authorities in the area to install a satellite vessel monitoring and control system.
in writing. − against. on 19 december 2006, the council adopted regulation (ec) no 2027/2006 on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) between the european community and the republic of cape verde. this fpa, which is applicable for periods of 5 years, tacitly renewable unless either party terminates it, entailed the repeal and replacement of the first agreement between the ec and cape verde, concluded in 1990. the fpa was accompanied by a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial compensation originally for a 5 year period (from 1 september 2006 to 31 august 2011). however, the agreement and the protocol only entered into force on 30 march 2007. the current protocol expires on 31 august 2011, after a duration of 4 years and 5 months. a new protocol was meanwhile negotiated and initialled on 22 december 2010, covering a period of 3 years starting from 1 september 2011. its conclusion by the council is subject to the prior consent of the ep under articles 43(2) and 218(6) (a) of the tfeu.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament, – having regard to the draft council decision (09390/2011), – having regard to the draft memorandum of cooperation nat-i-9406 between the united states of america and the european union (06458/2011), – having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with articles 100(2) and 218(7) and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a), of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0141/2011), – having regard to rules 81, 90(8) and 46(1) of its rules of procedure, – having regard to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0301/2011), 1. consents to conclusion of the agreement; 2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of the united states of america.
in writing. − in favour. the purpose of the present proposal is to extend the scope of the proposal for a regulation on the cross-border transportation of euro cash by road between euro-area member states (the main proposal) to the territory of member states that are about to introduce the euro, since there is normally an increased need for euro cash transportation in the run-up to the changeover.
in writing. − abstention. some of the points were very good; others were a bit dubious or confusing.
in writing. − in favour. the ep: (...) 3. believes that this specific system of education enables pupils to study all subjects in a multicultural, multilingual environment, with qualified teachers, while retaining their mother tongues; 4. takes the view that the european schools, which constitute an excellent educational showcase based on a tried and tested teaching approach, should become an example of one of the best possible forms of schooling in europe, based on the dissemination of european culture, values and languages, and whereas incorporating certain elements of this model, such as the emphasis on foreign-language knowledge, into the national and regional education systems would assist professional mobility and help to foster multilingualism and european integration; 5. believes that european schools play a valuable role in their communities.
in writing. − i voted in favour. parliament highlights the efforts made to ensure an acceleration in absorption capacities and budgetary implementation of cohesion policy during 2010, despite the problems mentioned, and acknowledges the positive effect of the cohesion-policy-related interventions by the european economic recovery plan in speeding up implementation of programmes and accelerating provision of financing to beneficiaries. it also asks the commission to continue these interventions in the period 2014-2020.
in writing. − i voted in favour. parliament welcomes the communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council entitled ‘towards a stronger european disaster response: the role of civil protection and humanitarian assistance’ and its objectives. it emphasises that the proposals outlined in the communication should be further examined to fulfil the expectations for an enhanced, coordinated, consistent, effective, cost-efficient and visible cohesive and comprehensive european response. it underlines the need to rationalise and simplify the functioning of current european disaster response and to optimise the resources available for common benefit, whilst encouraging all member states to contribute and thus guarantee european solidarity. it considers, accordingly, that the eu’s reaction capacity should form part of an integrated multi-risk approach. moreover, it highlights the need to carry out ‘bottom-up’ delegated resources and information management. in other words, the initiative should come from the member states, which can provide voluntary resources and expertise;
in writing. − i voted in favour. although euro notes and coins were introduced as long ago as 2002, the market for transporting euro cash is still highly fragmented. widely diverging national rules make it very difficult for cash-in-transit (cit) companies to provide cross-border services. the purpose of this regulation is therefore to simplify the regulatory constraints so that euro notes and coins can circulate more easily between the member states that have adopted the currency.
in writing. − against. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and its clarification on the eu’s competences in the area of international trade provide a good occasion to reaffirm the eu’s role in these formations and the european parliament’s role, power and responsibility within the eu’s institutional framework for decision-making. the eu’s dual-use regime should be organised more transparent and democratic. full european parliament involvement, through the application of the lisbon treaty’s obligations and its joint interpretation agreed by the european parliament and the european commission within the new framework agreement, would be crucial to achieving this objective. however, with the content of the report we missed a good opportunity to better strengthen the control of dual-use items and technology.
in writing. − in favour. tourism is the eu’s third largest socioeconomic activity, accounting for 10 % of gdp and 12% of total employment figures. it is a crucially important sector since, in addition to furthering the integration and development of less-developed regions, it manages to combine growth with ethical and sustainable development in the eu’s member states. it is, moreover, a vital tool in boosting, spreading and promoting our global image.
in writing. − in favour. in recent years europe’s roads have become substantially safer. between 2001 and 2009 the number of road deaths in the eu fell by 36%, and the third european road safety action programme was instrumental in bringing about that fall. since 2001 almost 80 000 lives have been saved as a result of the progress made. although the target of halving the annual number of road deaths has not been met, the figures are very encouraging. above all, however, they are a call for further action. in 2009 the number of people killed on europe’s roads was still 35 000 and the number seriously injured was 1.5 million, with many of them being left disabled. the social and economic cost of these road accidents is huge (roughly eur 130 billion in 2009). the human loss involved, the grief experienced by the friends and families of the victims, the suffering of the injured and the dramatic changes to the lives of accident victims represent costs of a different kind.
in writing. − in favour. the ep: 1. considers that, globally, no other natural hazard has proved more destructive to property or cost more human lives than floods over the past century, despite the billions of dollars spent on flood management; 2. highlights that water is a scarce natural resource, which gives rise to equity consideration in its allocation; stresses therefore that rethinking the management of freshwater resources, in the context of climate change, is undoubtedly a key challenge facing the world; 3. points out that there has been a documented increase in the frequency of serious floods throughout the second half of the 20th century and that flooding will prove a critical issue in the coming decades;
in writing. − in favour. food insecurity is challenging the achievement of the millennium development goals, especially in sub-saharan africa and the least developed countries. at the mdg summit in september 2010, it was reported that progress towards the achievement of the hunger targets had clearly been insufficient. according to the fao, the estimate of hungry people in 2010 was 925 million, down from 1 023 million in 2009 but still more than the number of undernourished people in 2008 (about 815 million). there is strong evidence that food price increases during the last few months have already augmented that number even if there are still no official figures available from the fao. new challenges, including the growing threat of food speculation, climate change, global land acquisitions, bio-fuels, loss of biodiversity, land degradation and pressures on water, have contributed to further affect the state of food security in the world. in this context, the current problems around hunger and malnutrition have led to a rethink of the food security approach not only at an eu level but also at the global level.
in writing. − in favour. this report originates in a request by the conference of committee chairs addressed to the constitutional affairs committee in order to clarify the position of parliament as regards the meaning and legal status of unilateral statements entered in the minutes of council meetings. several committee chairs expressed their concerns about the proliferation of such statements, in particular in the framework of the codecision procedure where they could weaken the legal force and scope of the adopted acts, and so possibly affect parliament’s will as a co-legislator. it has to be stressed in this regard that the contentious statements are mainly originating from one or several member states, since they are in charge of the transposition of legislative acts at national level. an attempt to interpret those acts in a way that could diverge from the result achieved by common agreement of the two legislators would indeed undermine the necessary coherence of the application of union law.
in writing. − against. in november 2010, the commission issued its new trade strategy under the title ‘trade, growth and global affairs’, defining it as the ‘external dimension’ of the europe 2020 strategy. the paper replaces the ‘global europe’ strategy of 2005, under the then trade commissioner mandelson. the new strategy basically continues the approach of ‘global europe’, that is mainly the continuation of a free trade and market access policy through bilateral trade agreements, which go deep into non-trade issues such as public procurement, investment, regulatory cooperation and removal of non-tariff barriers. however the new strategy is a little more cautious in its overall tone. the happily drunken trust in global economic openness as the best way of stimulating growth in the eu has gone away a little. the new strategy puts emphasis on fairness and reciprocity principles in the market opening of partner countries announcing that violations of market opening commitments in third countries will be brought systematically to court. basically, it still fully defends full economic liberalisation and sees challenges only in the unfair practices of some partner countries.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i have to say something. i share the view of mr bisky, the chairman of the group of the european people's party, that the european central bank has done the right thing, and if i did not share that view, i would not be saying this, because i fully respect the independence of the bank. the european financial stability facility instrument - when we have it, and this will be in mid-october - will transfer to this european facility the task of what the european central bank has to do now. and this facility will work in this respect on the basis of a clear set of rules.
president of the eurogroup. − i did not say that greece has no problems; i did not say that. i said that, although greece is a member of the euro area, greece has deep problems, so do not take it the way round that you put it in the question or that you intended in putting the question. secondly, i do not think that it would be wise and useful for the president of the euro area to take part in all kinds of speculations of the nature of those you mentioned in the third part of your question. your second question was linked to my credibility, as far as i understood. i prefer mine to yours. (applause)
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i have to ask you to excuse me. because you quote a non-political newspaper, namely a german one, which wrote, i would have said, if it gets serious, you have to lie, i allow myself to quote you in the language of the newspaper, which you quoted correctly, but which reported incorrectly: i explained to them that in the past, when i was a small luxembourg finance minister, we were sent to brussels every two months to make revaluations and upgrades in the european monetary system. i then explained that if, as finance minister, you are asked on friday afternoon, before the financial markets close, whether you will meet in brussels on saturday or sunday to make up or downward revaluations, you cannot tell the truth. then i made a terrible mistake. i myself have used my poor english to offer you a formula that could motivate you to ask your supplementary question.
mr president, mr juncker, i would like to ask you why investment funds domiciled in luxembourg are not subject to any corporation tax. but what i am really going to ask you is this, in line with what other speakers have said before: do you not think that, as the president of the eurogroup and as the president of the council of ministers, you should push for the creation of a european economy ministry and strengthen the role of this parliament and the commission as the director of european policy? look, mr juncker, in europe we must be very clear that federal states can work well or badly, but a confederation never works.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, first of all, i do not see how the luxembourg taxation system for investment funds could enrich the debate. luxembourg, which is the country i know best, applies the tax rules as they have been coordinated or harmonized in europe. so the answer to the question you ask is to be found in the decisions taken by the european union so far. as far as the introduction of a european economy minister is concerned, i would not rule out that idea. my friend jean-claude trichet proposed a few months ago the creation of a finance ministry for the euro area. i am all for these ideas, except that i am really starting to lose interest in this game of inventing a new institution every day. (applause) i would like to thank
mr juncker, since you are against the creation of new institutions, i am absolutely puzzled by your support for the creation of another body, as proposed by mr sarkozy and mrs merkel, who are at the moment in europe a kind of duet in a badly represented opera.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i very much doubt that we can invent a discourse that will convince the financial markets. that said, you will understand, mr engel, that i have not been given a mandate by the eurogroup to speak about a more federal architecture in europe. the rest, personally, i have never believed in the united states of europe; it's not gonna work. but i have always believed that, based on a well-thought-out community method, which can evolve, we will succeed in making the member states of the european union appear not as an addition or an addition of member states but as a real european union. it is true that if the markets and other observers could see us as a solid and cohesive entity, the way we express ourselves would be more easily understood by the markets and by the observers.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr juncker, you are at the moment, if i remember correctly, the dean of the prime ministers of our european council. you have seen the evolution of my country, spain, from being part of the euro solution, from being a founding member, to being, unfortunately, today, still part of the euro problem, because of the management of the government. the spanish government has carried out some reforms, but they are clearly not yet sufficient to restore confidence in our country, confidence which it has shown in the past and will continue to show in the future. what would be your advice to the next prime minister after the next elections in spain? what would be the reforms that you think we should continue to carry out in spain to restore that trust within the eurozone that you preside over?
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, this year’s un general assembly took place at a time of enormous change and growing tensions in the world. the combination of the economic crisis, the arab spring and the stalled middle east peace process creates a strong mix. i believe that europe has to respond to the challenges, both at home and in the world. today, at your request, i am focusing my remarks on two issues: the middle east process and the arab spring. i did, however, just want to say to honourable members that during the week in new york i met with ministers from russia, china, the united states, brazil, india and mexico – our strategic partners – and participated in many key events: on counter-terrorism, and a very important women’s event led by the president of brazil. i want to turn first to the middle east peace process. as honourable members know, i visited the region seven times this year, each time with a single purpose: to promote a negotiated settlement of the conflict and to demonstrate the importance of europe’s role. over the summer period i have worked with the quartet envoys and with the arab league, and have been in discussions with the prime minister of israel and the president of the palestinian authority, together with prime minister fayyad. it is clear that these efforts have succeeded in demonstrating that the european union does have a role; that we are a player and a payer, with our financial commitment matched by our political strength. for too long we have been on the sidelines of the peace process. i have worked to achieve a greater role for europe because i believe we are ideally placed as a friend of both parties. i have said before that my vision for the european external action service is in a conflict prevention and resolution approach. we need to put that vision into practice. the dividends of peace are crucial for the future stability and prosperity of our neighbourhood. prior to arriving in new york, i participated in cairo at the arab league follow-up committee discussions as we considered how best to support our objectives: two states; peace and security for both. exploratory talks with the palestinians, with the israelis and with jordanian leaders at the end of august led me to believe that the way forward was to put together what became known in new york as ‘the package’, various actions with the key objective of getting the israelis and palestinians together in talks. during my september visit it became clear that a quartet statement and possible general assembly resolution, in addition to what president abbas was seeking to do, could be part of such a package. i met with many arab leaders and was impressed by the desire they stated to end the conflict and their wish to bring stability and normality against a backdrop of potential unrest sparked by lack of progress. i believe this is also understood by israeli leaders, who are fearful of seeing their country facing great uncertainty in the region, and fear for their own security. i have impressed upon all i have met that this is a time to seek peace between the israelis and the palestinians on the basis, as we know very well in this house, of a negotiated agreement that will lead to the establishment of a palestinian state as a core element of that agreement, and end the occupation that is so detrimental to the development of both peoples. the united nations speeches of president abbas and prime minister netanyahu certainly differed in rhetoric, but they both spoke about a desire for peace. both speeches when you read them back focused on the need to go to negotiations and the wish to end the conflict. in new york we worked to achieve a quartet response to this, immediately calling on both parties to enter into negotiations within four weeks, to agree on the issue of territory and security within three months and to have made substantial progress within six months, with an agreement by the end of the year. we do expect both sides to come forward and agree to negotiations. i believe that the european union, including this parliament, should play a central role in that process. we are well placed to do so, we are well respected in the region, and i believe we should have that commitment to stay closely involved, which, as i have made clear to all that i have met, i intend to do personally. the quartet has called for parties to refrain from provocative actions if negotiations are really going to resume and, more importantly, be effective. it is therefore with deep regret that i have learnt today about the decision to advance in the plans for settlement expansion in east jerusalem, with new housing units in gilo. this plan should be reversed. settlement activity threatens the viability of an agreed two-state solution and runs contrary to the israeli stated commitment to resume negotiations. we have also called for a donors’ conference to support further the impressive achievements of the palestinian authority’s state building and we will consult on additional steps that will quickly lead to greater independence and sovereignty for the palestinians over their affairs. facilitating palestinian trade is essential to support state-building and develop the economy. we propose concrete actions to open our markets to palestinian agricultural and fishery products. i am glad that earlier today the european parliament voted in favour of this important agreement, for which i thank you. gaza, too, remains a priority. as i have always said, the crossings must be opened to allow the flow of humanitarian aid, imports, exports and people. we need to enable children to go to school and ordinary people, and the younger generation in particular, to get on with and build the lives that they would want to have. i will continue to work to allow the economic recovery of gaza, while of course remaining committed to ensuring the security of the people of israel. my second issue today is the arab spring. since the demonstrations in tunisia, the arab spring has touched every arab state in the region. it is an event of truly historic proportions that will shape not only the future of that region, but our own future too. it is a revolution based on values: on justice, dignity and freedom. europe’s response to these events will speak more than any form of rhetoric about our real commitment to democratic principles. we have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to build deep and lasting democracy and prosperity in the southern mediterranean. doing so will require vision, perseverance and a team effort from all of europe’s institutions. i look at my partner in this effort, stefan füle, as i speak! we need to stay focused and committed. the scale of the challenge requires a joined-up eu response. what we do on trade and mobility is as important to the overall success of our strategy as what we do on election-monitoring and supporting development. six months on, we still need to match words with delivery, and that is why i believe we need to re-energise the process. last may i set out here my vision for north africa and the middle east, a vision of deep-rooted democracy, and the benefits of development that will come to it. my priority is delivery. after the revolutions, we face that growing sense of impatience and uncertainty, so we have to translate good intentions into results and assistance on the ground. the process of change was never going to be easy and never going to be fast. real change takes time and will be measured in years, not seasons. our response, which began with the communication of 8 march, is built on the need to acknowledge past mistakes and to listen without imposing. we are doing exactly that, and it requires perseverance and sustained commitment. success should translate into what i have called ‘deep democracy’. political transformation will only succeed with economic opportunity. in the short term the uprisings were motivated by economic hardships, and have perhaps made those hardships even more severe in some places. there is no single template for our support, there is no ‘one-size-fits-all’. we have to develop tailor-made policies in response to the needs identified by each country. engagement with arab partners, particularly with the arab league, is essential. we are working ‘with them, not at them’, which is why i was a prime mover in the establishment of the cairo group. but we are in a new era where dialogue between governments is not enough. success requires engagement with and between societies. the european parliament is unique in what it can offer to those in search of democracy in tunisia and beyond, particularly now that constituent assemblies will become the key institutional actors. building and sustaining political parties is essential. the experience in this house is unmatched. in new york i participated in a high-level event on women in politics. i firmly believe that the continued central role of women in the arab spring is a key test of the strength and the extent of the changes. women, together with the younger generation, were instrumental in the protests that toppled repressive regimes in tunisia and egypt, and they must remain central to shaping the reforms that follow. deep and lasting democracy has to be for all people, not just one gender. there was an encouraging signal on sunday from perhaps an unexpected place, saudi arabia, when king abdullah announced that women, as from next year, will be appointed to the shura council. they will also be able to vote and stand as candidates in elections in four years’ time. many of us would have hoped to see women voting in this thursday’s ballot, but this decision, if properly implemented, marks an initial step in advancing women’s participation in the political, economic and social life of that country. the future of the arab spring depends on tunisia and egypt becoming success stories. what happens there as they move to elections and build a system of civil rights and democratic values will send messages everywhere else. time is important: expectations are high, and we need to see visible results. tomorrow i travel to tunisia with stefan; we have set up a new eu task force for that country; it is taking place at a key moment to show our support just three weeks ahead of the first truly democratic elections, on 23 october. an eu election observation mission is already on the ground. given the highly political nature of the event and the key contribution from the european parliament to support countries in transition, i have invited a delegation from this house to join me in tunis tomorrow. i am extremely grateful that members of this house have agreed to come with me and participate fully in the work of the task force. i hope that this will be a model which we will replicate again in the future. the purpose of the task force is to focus on some of the key issues which will have a direct impact on the lives of tunisians: business, investment and the economy; social development and democracy. it will be unique in that it brings together not only our tunisian partners but also our international financial institutions and private sector representatives. it will be the occasion for strong political messages, with the opening of negotiations for a new privileged partnership which reflects our shared ambition. it will also be an opportunity to better coordinate european and international efforts to focus on faster, more effective support. this tailor-made approach, based on decentralised and coordinated use of all our instruments, will then be used with other countries in transition to better identify needs and accelerate support. in egypt, where we expect the interim authorities will soon confirm the date of elections, it is urgent that the ruling military council continues to engage with political representatives and civil society to get a new electoral law for the new democratic era. egyptian authorities have declined european and other international offers of involvement in direct election observation, but we will be working with them on other urgent measures, through the instrument for stability, to enhance the capacity of egypt’s high electoral commission and help judges and poll workers to manage and effectively oversee these first free, fair and democratic elections as well as laying the basis for the organisation of future elections. i know that many in this house are personally involved in strengthening the work of political parties in egypt and i will, if i may, pay tribute to that work. i had great pleasure in meeting people who are engaged directly and i think it is well understood in egypt how much this house is engaging there. in some other countries in the region the authorities have sought to respond to calls for greater freedoms by intensifying their reform processes, some of which were already underway before the arab spring. in morocco a new constitution has been developed and approved overwhelmingly. this promises increased separation of powers and greater public accountability as well as improved respect for human rights. these are important, but they now need fast and sustained implementation. in jordan the lower house endorsed 41 constitutional amendments, which included the establishment of a constitutional court and the creation of an independent commission overseeing elections. the new election laws and the political parties’ law will be debated by their parliament in october. we urge them to continue with their reform, and we pay tribute to the work which is going on to try and achieve that within jordan. in the case of both morocco and jordan we will continue to build on the advanced status. in morocco we are developing a new action plan focussing on the reform agenda. we will shortly launch a mobility partnership, and we will step up our financial and technical cooperation. i look to his house to help play its part in supporting the moves which are going on in both those countries. we want to accelerate ongoing trade negotiations and prepare mandates for deep and comprehensive free trade agreements in morocco, jordan, egypt and tunisia. approval by parliament to the eu-morocco agreement on liberalisation measures on agricultural products, fish and fishery products will send a signal of our desire to deepen our relationship in practical ways to the benefit of their people. we recognise today that fighting continues in sirte, bani walid and a few other pockets of resistance, but libya is transitioning fast from a crisis to the creation of a democracy. last week in new york i took part in the friends of libya meeting, where we were able to deliver a message of strong, continuing commitment. president jalil has pledged to build a society based on tolerance and reconciliation and to uphold the principles of human rights. the national transitional council and the international community also have to establish control over the large stock of weapons that the previous regime had amassed, to prevent them falling into the wrong hands. all this and more is essential for their transition. in addition to our office in benghazi, our new office in tripoli is working closely with other partners under the coordination of the un to determine the needs there. we know that libya is a rich country, but we also know that they need support to develop their economy back to where it was; to help bring back the workforce which left libya at the time of the crisis; to ensure that they are able to develop transparent ways of dealing with the resources that they will be receiving and the return of assets; to make sure that they have support in the security sector and to make sure that they are able to develop the links that they want to see, for example, the trade links they want to develop further with europe, and the links which can help them develop a civil society which deserves that name. we are preparing projects to support civil society and women in libya in particular. may i also take note of anna gomes’ excellent suggestions to organise a visit of libyan officials and civil society to the upcoming spanish elections. in syria and yemen we face crisis situations. i do not have to tell any honourable member here of the brutal regime in syria that remains unwilling to listen to its people and to change. we are pursuing our double- track approach by stepping up measures designed to undermine the regime’s support and, internationally, to achieve further isolation of the syrian leadership. we have made many rounds of sanctions, and i was delighted to see in the financial times this morning the recognition that those sanctions are having an effect. but we are very clear in our message to the people of syria, and during august all 27 member states joined in to send a very strong message that it was time that president assad stood aside and enabled the people of syria to move forward. finally, madam president, a word about yemen. we have been strongly supporting the work of the gulf cooperation council. you know that the unexpected return on friday of president saleh led to a very coordinated response out of new york from the gcc, the arab league, the european union, the united states and now the security council, all calling for violence to stop and for a rapid and concrete transfer of power. nobody will be satisfied with another open-ended promise. honourable members, i have tried to cover so much in this short presentation of the work which we are doing and the understanding that we have for the region. i look forward very much to your resolution and i continue to thank you for the support and advice that you have given as we move forward with what, i believe, is an increasingly clear strategy in uncertain times. we hope for real and sustained progress both in israel and palestine, across north africa and the wider middle east. further steps were taken in new york last week. we have to work together and continue to engage with all parties to make sure that we do have real cause for celebration when the general assembly meets next september.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam high representative, commissioner, a balanced approach to the problem should rest on three premises: the legitimate aspiration of the state of israel to its security, the frustration of the palestinian people and the state of blockade in which the peace process finds itself. and all this at a time, mrs ashton, when international attention is focused on the arab spring, when the united states is conditioned by its electoral horizon, when the israeli government is divided and almost without room for manoeuvre and when palestinian radicals are expressing their satisfaction in crescendo at the lack of results. the question in this situation, mrs ashton, is very simple: what can we do as the european union? and in this context, i want to tell you that this parliament, which has criticized you so many times - i am the first - must express its appreciation for the efforts you have made in cairo, ramallah, jerusalem, new york and washington, seeking solutions and asking the european union to speak with one voice. in politics, madam president, what is not possible is false. and in the face of the announced us veto in the security council, the president of france - as in the crisis in georgia in 2008, or this year in libya - has proposed a compromise solution, which is the vatican solution. mrs. ashton, what do you think of this initiative? do you think it can be supported by the member states? what can the european union do to ensure that the quartet solution can be accepted by the palestinians? madam president, if the european union is to be relevant and not declining on the international scene, it has to take a step forward, it has to move in the right direction and get out of its lethargy. i am not saying this for you, mrs ashton, who has moved a lot and moved well, but you must propose concrete, tangible, cash and sound solutions, with a precise timetable. and in that context it must do so - and this is the difficulty of the exercise - on the one hand, without affecting the dignity or undermining the dignity of both parties and, at the same time, recognizing the inalienable rights that assist them, some to live in peace and security and others to constitute themselves as a state.
madam president, this is your moment, mrs ashton, it is the moment for the european union to consolidate the political relevance and prestige which are recovering in the area and which have been deteriorating in recent years as a result of paralysis and blockades. it is time for the european union to step forward at the united nations and to express with a loud, clear, autonomous and unanimous - and if not unanimous, then ambitious - voice its support for the legitimate request of the palestinian authority to be recognised within the united nations framework. the palestinian authorities have in recent years met the conditions set by the international community for fruitful negotiations on the creation of a palestinian state. israel has not met the only condition that was put to it, which was to stop the settlements. this is the moment for the european union to take the side of the ambitious, not the side of the obstructionists, to take a step forward, to condemn the continuation of israeli settlements and thus to favour a future relevant role for the european union in the negotiations which we hope will be possible from now on.
mrs ashton, more than six months ago we had a debate here on the peace process. i insisted that it was very urgent to resume the negotiations because time was not in either party's favour. i understand that the blockade of the process has moved the palestinian side to take the initiative and to bring the question of its admission to the united nations. we're in a very complicated situation now. i suppose in the end the matter will pass from the security council to the general assembly. i hope that the european union and its member states will be active and that the twenty-seven will be united in their views on the resolution that will finally be voted on. there are no simple solutions: no simple yes or no. the resolution of the general assembly must be careful, it must not endanger the peace process or put the parties, or the other actors, who are the main drivers of the process, in impossible situations. but sitting still should not be an option. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, today, as six months ago, i cannot be optimistic about the progress of the negotiations. the news of new settlements in jerusalem today is, frankly, very bad. furthermore, i fear that some of the 2012 election consultations will not favour a solution. 2013 could be better, but i would regret that, coinciding with a new dynamic of change in the arab world, we lost a year. these are moments of historic responsibility for the parties and also for the entire international community.
madam president, mrs ashton, europe must take a common position in accordance with international law at this definitive moment in the conflict between palestine and israel. if we want an end to violence and human rights violations, all member states must support the aspiration of palestine to be represented as a state in the united nations general assembly. we must also denounce the illegality of israeli settlements and call for the wall of shame built by israel to be removed. both these issues violate international law and are an obstacle to peace. the palestinians must also be required to recognise the state of israel and to cease all armed attacks, which sometimes start from the gaza strip and head towards israeli territory. think how they would feel if we had to cross a checkpoint every day or live separated from family by a wall that turns 200 metres into 50 kilometres, work into a chimera, development into an impossible and arbitrariness and abuse of power into everyday currency. we are talking about justice and respect for international law, but also about humanity.
madam president, mrs ashton, mr füle, i would first of all like to remind commissioner füle that turkey does not accept arbitration because it does not recognise the hague tribunal; and that this is not an international arbitration, but threats from a candidate country to a member state of the european union. it is not a question of tensions between two countries, but of threats from turkey to cyprus, which have been materialized in the displacement of turkish naval vessels. and threats to one member state by turkey are threats to the whole of the european union. they are an unnecessary escalation of tension in the region, and the actions of turkey, in contrast to the government of the republic of cyprus, which is making every effort to achieve a viable, peaceful and lasting solution to the cyprus problem, are intolerable. i would like to highlight the speech by the president of the republic of cyprus, mr demetris christofias, at the united nations, in which he said that the full potential of hydrocarbon exploration in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus would benefit both the greek and turkish cypriot communities. and the european council, as one of the conditions for turkey's accession to the european union, stipulated compliance with and signature of the united nations convention on the law of the sea, which turkey has not done to date.
mr president, this debate on the state of the union is taking place at a critical moment, as has been said: the worst in the history of the union. the state of affairs is not good, but i join those who have expressed the conviction that the unrest in europe is not caused by what europe does, much less by what europe says - which is often applauded in this house - but by the lack of europe, by what europe does not do, by the contradiction between what it says and what it applauds and what it actually does. governments talk about making tough decisions: they're the ones they impose on citizens, but not the ones they impose on themselves. are they prepared to give up their short-sightedness, their 'short-sightedness', their strictly local or national interests for the sake of the necessary solutions, to do what needs to be done and not to do little, late, piecemeal and in the wrong direction? and i would add that it is not true that to do what needs to be done, the treaties need to be reformed. i'm not going! i join those who are convinced that there was a time when there were no instruments, but determination and will. now we have the tools, we just need the will and the leadership. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president of the commission, today was an important day and this was an important speech. i think you have done well, because you have put three c's: courage, credibility and confidence. it has been said here that the community method is an outdated method. the community method is what has given us many years of peace and many years of prosperity. the commission plays a fundamental role in this community method, it is at the heart of this community method. that is why it is very important that today, at a time of crisis, at a time of confusion, at a time when people are asking for someone to guide them, the president of the european commission has delivered a committed speech. you can be sure, mr president, that when these commitments are translated into initiatives, this parliament will give you political support. - i'm not going to the hospital.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it proposes to increase the budget for frontex by eur 41.1 million. in my group we have always been critical of eu migration policy. frontex is one of the main instruments of this fortress europe based on the persecution and even the criminalization of immigrants instead of working towards their integration. for this reason, increasing the budget for the frontex agency means raising higher walls to prevent the entry of immigrants. we cannot in any case be in favour of such policies, which is why i voted against.
in writing. − against. we firmly oppose the ever increasing funding for frontex.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) specifically for the 325 redundancies in six enterprises operating under division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment) in denmark. the egf shall provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to help them re-enter the labour market. denmark has submitted an application for egf funds for redundancies in the automotive sector which complies with the fund's own rules. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) specifically for the 778 redundancies in five companies operating under division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in arnsberg (dea5) and düsseldorf (dea1), germany. the egf shall provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and for their reintegration into the labour market. germany has submitted an application for egf funds for redundancies in the automotive sector in accordance with the fund's own rules. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) specifically for the 680 redundancies that have occurred in a company based mainly in the municipality of santa maria da feira, but which also affected the neighbouring municipality of ovar, in portugal. the egf shall provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and for their reintegration into the labour market. portugal has submitted an application for egf funds for redundancies in the automotive sector which complies with the fund's own rules. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. − in favour. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. according to the provisions of point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (1) and of article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 (2), the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million, drawn from the margin under the global expenditure ceiling from the previous year, and / or from the cancelled commitment appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to heading 1b. the appropriate amounts are entered into the budget as a provision as soon as the sufficient margins and/or cancelled commitments have been identified. concerning the procedure, in order to activate the fund, the commission, in the event of a positive assessment of an application, presents to the budgetary authority a proposal for mobilisation of the fund and, at the same time, a corresponding request for transfer. in parallel, a trialogue could be organised in order to find an agreement on the use of the fund and the amounts required. the trialogue could take a simplified form.
in writing. - with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the eu has enlarged its customs union. consequently, in accordance with wto rules (gatt article xxiv:6), the eu was obliged to enter into negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights on the schedules of any of the acceding members in order to agree on a countervailing adjustment. i have therefore voted in favour of regularizing this situation with argentina.
in writing. − in favour. with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the eu has enlarged its customs union. consequently, the eu was obliged under wto rules (gatt article xxiv:6) to enter into negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights in the schedules of any of the acceding members in order to agree on compensatory adjustment. such adjustment is due if the adoption of the eu’s external tariff regime results in a tariff increase beyond the level for which the acceding country has bound itself at the wto, whilst taking ‘due account of reductions of duties on the same tariff line made by other constituents of the customs union upon its formation’. the procedure set forth in article xxviii gatt(1), as elaborated in the guidelines adopted on 10 november 1980 (bisd 27s/26-28)(2) and in the understanding on the interpretation of article xviii of 1994(3) are to be followed.
in writing. - with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the eu has enlarged its customs union. consequently, in accordance with wto rules (gatt article xxiv:6), the eu was obliged to enter into negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights on the schedules of any of the acceding members in order to agree on a countervailing adjustment. i have therefore voted in favour of regularizing this situation with australia.
in writing. - with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the eu has enlarged its customs union. consequently, in accordance with wto rules (gatt article xxiv:6), the eu was obliged to enter into negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights on the schedules of any of the acceding members in order to agree on a countervailing adjustment. i have therefore voted in favour of regularizing this situation with new zealand.
in writing. the report proposes as a solution to the increase in the public deficit to control and limit public spending, as spain has already done with the "reformazo". the report also increases the power of the european commission by giving it the ability to impose sanctions on those member states that fail to meet deficit control targets. this is clearly unacceptable. this report is the mother of all the solutions that the eu is offering to get out of the crisis, austerity measures and cuts that will achieve the opposite result to what they expect: increased poverty, exclusion and inequalities. these are measures that go deeper into the policies that have brought us into the crisis. the control of public spending will lead to decline and recession, instead of promoting, as they should, measures to generate development and to protect the most disadvantaged, who are not the culprits of this crisis, but are and will continue to pay for it. this crisis, let those who are responsible for it pay for it, not the workers. i have obviously voted against it.
in writing. − against. the text downgrades some counter-cyclical waivers contained in the original commission proposal by introducing a more restrictive definition of what has to be understood as an ‘economic downturn’, allowing for a less stringent adjustment path in such situations.
in writing. the 'economic governance package' addresses some of the gaps in the eu's economic governance. it is a step in the right direction, and i, as a europeanist and federalist, support it. now, if the package does solve certain issues, it is still a timid solution, given the scale of the crisis we are experiencing. in this connection, we regret the slow progress in the regulation of financial markets (speculation in the debt of states, swaps, control of bank bonuses and speculative funds, etc.), the slow progress in a european fiscal policy which harmonizes at least the corporate tax and in a policy to stimulate job creation. we also miss the timid look at the source of the revenue which would be considerably increased if tax evasion and tax fraud were seriously combated and the remnants of tax havens which still exist among us were liquidated. the organization of an independent european rating service is also lacking. finally, we must strengthen the role of the european parliament in the budgetary control and correction mechanism which we are approving today.
in writing. the report is complementary to the corien wortmann-kool report and goes further in pressing member states to comply with the budgetary rigor demanded by the eu. and if they do not and do not comply with these european requirements, the report sets out the list of sanctions to be applied. again my vote was a resounding no.
in writing. − against. given the fact that there is a ‘mechanical’ link between the wortmann-cool report and the goulard report and given that the trialogue outcome deletes most of the good elements of the latter, including the review clause on eurobonds, it was logical to maintain the vote against of the econ committee. as a matter of consistency, green econ meps decided to table 6 amendments co-signed with s&d particularly on eurobonds, fiscal convergence, capping of the total amount of financial sanctions and other incentives for compliance.
in writing. - to correct macroeconomic imbalances, the commission's proposal consists of sanctions. i have already explained in the course of the goulard report why i do not believe that the way out of the crisis is to put the corsets on public spending, let alone the penalties and sanctions if this dogma is not respected. the stability and growth pact can in no way be the basis for creating employment policies, because it is based on the very principles that have led to the disappearance of jobs. the european semester was not part of the solution to the crisis, because it was a repudiation of the sovereignty of the states in favour of the commission and its neoliberal dictates. again, the vote is against.
in writing. − against. very much concerned with the measures in case of non-compliance with the excessive imbalance procedure a sanction of 0.1% of gdp due every year until compliance.
in writing. - this report is the 'preventive' part of the whole framework, i.e. it can detect in advance possible future situations similar to the present one. or put another way, create alert mechanisms that jump when a country is approaching a level of government deficit that is too high for the limits set by the eu. all this so that the prescriptions for adjustment and austerity can be extended before the problem erupts. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. − abstention. the commission acknowledges that ‘in the years preceding the crisis large internal and external debt positions were built up in some member states on the back of unsustainable levels of consumption and housing bubbles. at the same time persistent weaknesses in domestic demand nourished rendered some member states particularly vulnerable to external developments (...) these accumulated imbalances and divergences in competitiveness trends weakened the eu and the euro area response to the crisis and make economic adjustment more painful’. in order to prevent and correct such imbalances so far ignored in the current growth and stability pact, on the negative side the ep lost the demand to have the list of the scoreboard indicators to be defined by delegated acts. also and very unfortunately under the pressure of germany the council disavowed the compromise on symmetry reached with the hungarian presidency and in its last version came back to a version without the word. in the end the word 'symmetry' got lost in the last negotiations. even though the symmetric rationale is still present in the text is has been weakened by the trialogues given that in the final text action is deemed more urgent and pressing in deficit member states than in surplus member states.
in writing. - this report sets out the steps to be taken and the timetable for reducing the public deficit, provided, of course, that the basis is austerity and cutbacks: for three consecutive years the public debt will have to be reduced by 5% in the states where it exceeds 60% of gdp, including those states where the deficit is below the 3% of gdp barrier. again, this report proposes, in order to create growth and development, the limitation of public spending. this, in my view and in the view of my group in this parliament, is a contradiction in itself. so i have again voted decisively against this report.
in writing. − against both amended proposal and legislative resolution. even though the council accepted the ep wording (green suggestion) that due account should be taken of the influence of the cycle on the pace of debt reduction and that other relevant factors should be taken into account in the edp, the rule in itself remains pro-cyclical and as such is hardly credible.
in writing. − this report focuses on the national and european agencies that must ensure that national budgets are budgetary in nature and in line with the eu budget. while it would seem to be a harmless report, it is again based on creating the mechanisms for member states to meet the requirements of controlling government deficits through spending cuts. so i have again voted against.
in writing. − abstention. the commission’s legislative package released last september has in this perspective the explicit aim of strengthening surveillance of economic policies and ensuring effective compliance with fiscal consolidation on the one hand, as well as taking proper account of macrofinancial imbalances such as excessive levels of private debt or weakness of internal demand on the other hand. these macrofinancial imbalances have been largely ignored in the framework of the current growth and stability pact, which solely focuses on public deficits and public debt ratios. although the report as it stands increases transparency and accountability of the budgetary process at the member state level, still many question marks remain on how member states are going to interpret it.
in writing. - i would like to express my satisfaction that the steps taken recently in the united nations and other international institutions, and the one we are taking here today by adopting this resolution, are helping to enshrine sexual orientation and gender identity as a specific human right. we are helping to reduce the violations that still occur in many countries, such as the criminalization of homosexuality, discrimination at all levels or the persecution of those who are different. the economic crisis and the problems we have in reacting firmly to it threaten the european model. yet we all know we need it. europe is useful for the economy and the well-being of its citizens, but also for the enhancement and protection of their rights, here and around the world. today's resolution on sexual orientation is a good example of this and a demonstration that europe is bringing freedom and human values every day to a world which will only emerge from the crisis by appealing to these principles.
in writing. - unfortunately, there are still many human rights violations and widespread discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, both in the european union and in third countries. the resolution condemns this and calls on the member states and the high representative to put in place all the necessary mechanisms to end and tackle this situation. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament: 1. reiterates its concern regarding the numerous human rights violations and widespread discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, both in the european union and in third countries; 2. acknowledges and supports the work already undertaken by the human rights council, the un secretary-general, the high commissioner for human rights, un human rights treaty bodies, special rapporteurs and other un agencies to ensure that international human rights standards apply fully, regardless of a person’s sexual orientation and gender identity; 3. welcomes the adoption of resolution a/hrc/17/19 on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity by the human rights council.
we shall conclude with the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 1.35 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the free food distribution programme 2011/2845 (rsp).
mr president, this morning the president of the commission, mr barroso, raised this issue in the debate on the state of the union. that gives you an idea of the importance the commission attaches to it. he spoke of hope, inclusion and solidarity. in a time of economic crisis, such as we are in, where more and more people are sitting idle, more and more people are hovering around the poverty line, this blockade manifested by some member states is the most absolute example of lack of solidarity. those countries which oppose it, the richest in the european union, may jeopardize the maintenance of a programme which, with 1% of the budget of the common agricultural policy, helps eighteen million people. the commissioner is right when he takes the colours out of those council members who are unable to show solidarity at the moment. i would encourage the polish presidency to continue to support this programme until the end of its presidency. he deserves it. and all the people who need it deserve it, and this european union also deserves that vote of confidence and, above all, that response to its citizens. the union's council of ministers should also take account of parliament's view that the programme should not only be maintained but even improved, as this house has already asked. i would also like to remind the heads of state and government that we hope, that we trust that at their next summit they will take these matters seriously and unblock this situation in a political way.
mr president, mr commissioner, the judgment of the european court of justice makes it clear that this programme should be maintained. moreover, the new financial perspectives 2014-2020 endorse its continuity by framing it in the objective of poverty reduction. we must tackle the amendment of the existing regulation so that, while maintaining the fundamental elements of the regulation, a mechanism for implementing the programme can be articulated to improve its planning. it is essential that, within the framework of our agricultural policy, these basic foodstuffs continue to reach the more than 18 million socially excluded citizens of europe. parliament must call attention to the council's blocking minority. we have heard the term 'solidarity' many times this morning and this afternoon. we believe that this is a fundamental value of the union, starting with the basic right to food of all citizens. we must not allow the blindness of a few to throw away a tool that is needed today more than ever, and we must not forget that sometimes the greatest benefit is in the conscience and not in the wallets.
mr president, we have a duty to respond to the plight of the poorest people who benefit from the spd. and we are particularly committed to the sustainability of this programme, which is an expression of european solidarity. three messages: to the presidency first. i mean how much the council will be watched on this point, that it must prove worthy of the founding values of europe to break up a petty blocking minority. i would like to say to the european commission how logical it is to follow your proposal, commissioner, to link the pead to the european social fund. but the european social fund is the first instrument of social integration through occupational integration. i therefore ask that it be preserved in its entirety and that the food aid needed by the most deprived be increased; we will be extremely vigilant on this point. finally, the third message to the members of parliament. the parliamentarians are all fully mobilized here. but i want to address those in the blocking minority countries. i want them to take the message to their governments today, today, that they must stop this miserable european position which is staining europe. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, yes, we are talking about solidarity, about the poor. at the agriculture council, a blocking minority opposed the amendment of the regulation governing food aid for the most deprived. the argument has already been made by minister sawicki. but the council must be reminded that 60% of the funds are needed to feed the 79 million people in europe who live below the poverty line. these funds are provided by national, regional and local governments and ngos. the european union, until last april, was contributing 40%. the position of the blocking minority means that aid will be drastically reduced next year and will disappear completely in 2013. we condemned him. i thank the polish presidency and the commission for their determination to maintain the programme and i strongly condemn the position of the blockading countries. and i ask the blockading countries: where is the compassion? when have you heard of compassion? mr cioloş, take heart! and, mr president-in-office of the council, take heart!
mr president, mr commissioner, i am here to join my voice to that of all the colleagues who on 4 july and here today, in such a massive way, want to help you in that effort to wash away this shame that is falling on europe with that incomprehensible decision of a minority of five countries in the council. it is absolutely unacceptable that countries, even outside the programme, should be preventing europe from moving forward in its solidarity and in its support. not those who are fighting poverty, because this is not an anti-poverty program. let us not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen: this is a programme to combat hunger. there are 80 million poor people in europe, but 13 million need this to eat. and there can be no argument, neither legal nor budgetary, because if we ask the members, we ask the citizens, it can be cut anywhere but here. please, commissioner, go on ahead. change that council decision. please let the press, let the european citizens know that their members do not want this shame to fall on us. and look for a solution of solidarity that is not of the poor with the poor, look for a solution of solidarity of those who have more with those who have less. but in any case, let this programme not be stopped and let the shame be lifted, temporarily and definitively, that in this europe of opulence and waste there are people who are hungry.
member of the commission. − madam president, the situation of the refugees stranded in north africa is of course an issue of major concern. when the crisis began, the commission immediately called for a meeting between member states, the commission, the iom and the unhcr to discuss the situation of the refugees stranded in libya and to get an assessment of the resettlement needs. as you know, the european union tried to evacuate – and succeeded in evacuating – thousands of people from third countries and bring them back to their countries of origin. we also called for the member states to pledge resettlement places for refugees coming from the region. several member states announced their readiness to consider resettlement or to rearrange their annual quotas in order to be able to resettle urgent cases. in parallel, the commission financed humanitarian assistance to be provided to all refugees leaving the country. that also included an evacuation process from places such as misratah, the establishment of refugee camps and assistance with registration and reports. in may this year i organised a meeting with the ministers, a pledging conference on resettlement of the stranded refugees. further pledges were made. in total, eu member states pledged 408 places for refugees from north africa. in addition, norway pledged 300. this is good but is clearly not enough. the commission is, as you know, not directly involved in the process of resettlement itself. that is jointly run by the unhcr, the member states and the iom. the information i have on the statistics there is based on the figures i got from the unhcr. so far, eight eu member states have agreed to consider 374 cases submitted by the unhcr. of this number so far, seven member states have accepted 303 refugees for resettlement; 155 have already departed: 25 to belgium, 130 to sweden. we are very aware that the need for a settlement is much greater. however, that decision rests with the member states. what the commission can do is quite limited. we can encourage member states through financial support from the european refugee fund, particularly for the regions where there is a regional protection programme in place. as an incentive, member states can receive eur 4 000 from the refugee fund per resettled refugee coming from any of these countries. the regional protection programme in north africa includes egypt, libya and tunisia and is run jointly with the unhcr. at the commission’s request, the programme has an important resettlement component financed from its eur 3.6 million budget. this is intended to speed up the sometimes very slow process. it is not yet possible to assess how many of the 3 083 of the settlement places pledged by the member states formally within their quotas for ref funding for next year will be allocated from this region, but i hope that the urgent need in north africa will be considered and that the member states will use large parts of their quotas to resettle refugees from egypt, libya and tunisia. the regional protection programmes in north africa were created to increase the protection space in the region. it is our long-term goal to build up an asylum capacity together with these new governments so that the improved international standards can be in place. this is also part of the mobility partnership that we are seeking with these countries. as for the joint eu resettlement programme, there is disagreement over the procedure. i very much regret that the compromise proposals so far have not been able to gain support. the european refugee fund is, as you know, quite a large and complex mechanism and is run according to well-defined rules. the pledging of resettlement places must take place by june each year, and that means that any amendment to the refugee fund decision must be finalised very soon to ensure a smooth operation. i can assure you that the commission is working hard to develop better and more flexible ways to fund eu resettlement, and that will be part of the post-2013 financial instrument. we hope that increased funding, combined with new flexible rules, will result in more resettlement from eu member states. ladies and gentlemen, this year we are celebrating the 60th anniversary of the geneva convention. during the commemoration in geneva in december this year, state commitments will, hopefully, be made. the unhcr has expressed hope that the eu member states will come forward with new resettlement pledges, and we will continue to call on the commission to resettle the most vulnerable refugees from north africa and the horn of africa. today, before this parliament, i would like to ask you to join us in urging the member states to do more and to show solidarity with those countries where there are people in extreme need of help and resettlement. together maybe we can achieve something so that new commitments could be made. this would be a true commitment for solidarity and responsibility, sharing and also showing european union values at their best.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, on my initiative, from 13 to 16 july we visited tunisia, the camps on the border with libya and the sousa camp: four and a half thousand people from darfur, eritrea, somalia, sudan, ethiopia, the ivory coast, the palestinians and iraqis in subhuman conditions, suffering from extreme heat at 50 degrees. disease, violence, the field burned down three times, poor hygiene and scarce water and sometimes salt. a great job by unhcr, the red cross, the red crescent, doctors without borders, and others. tunisia has been in solidarity with the displaced and refugees from libya. he's taken in 90,000 libyans in his private homes. but no one is taking care of the people in sousa, except for the emergency. there is a big difference between a europe that gives and a europe that does not receive. solidarity is outward, but it does not exercise solidarity in its territory. today we are making a passionate appeal for the resettlement of the four thousand in europe. it's not difficult or expensive. there are commitments, as the commissioner has said, but more is needed than will and declarations of intent. we must re-establish as soon as possible these groups who are suffering so much in sousa and who could find hope in europe for their destroyed lives. europe must not abandon us, we have been told many times, and desperate voices. others said, "my son has lost ten kilos, he's malnourished, i need medical attention, we can't go anywhere". the bids to receive add up, would add up to be made seven hundred and eighteen, but there are three thousand seven hundred and seven left. i would urge the council and the commission to commit themselves to resolving this grave humanitarian problem as soon as possible.
madam president, mrs malmström, i believe that our main concern in this matter is to help tunisia, given the difficult situation it is experiencing, until its democracy is consolidated. it is clear that the immense effort it has made to welcome all those who have come from the libyan war can destabilise, and is in fact destabilising, an entire area, with these five thousand who are still coming from this country and coming from the war. it's a shame for all of us that this continues to exist. and it's not that europe has done nothing. it is true that the number of refugees has reached 700,000 at the most critical moment, and that europe has helped to mobilize its countries. but that it is true that something is wrong cannot be denied. because if, on the one hand, we are proposing a mobility partnership with these countries on the southern shore and at the same time we are modifying schengen, what is the real message we are conveying? what message are we sending even to the member states? commissioner, do what we asked mr barroso this morning: take action. really, get in that trouble. because, in the end, five thousand people who need to improve their quality of life and solve their situation is not so much for the european union. so try to make a more community policy; give more strength to the asylum office in malta; solve all those disputes that are pending and that the polish presidency wants to promote. but above all, in this problem, let's help tunisia, which is not so difficult. i try to make a real european policy of truth. it is no longer heard in the member states, because something will happen when we are not able to solve problems like this. there's something else. analyze what's going on in the background.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, libya is coming to the end of a painful civil war which has brought to an end the reign of the satrap gaddafi, who was so close to berlusconi and josé maría aznar. we want the libyan people to live in peace, freedom and democracy. many foreign workers have contributed and will contribute to libya's prosperity. the war has cut short the lives of many who have had to flee. tunisians and egyptians have taken in thousands of refugees. i call on europe and on my country in particular, and also, in accordance with what the commissioner has said here, on behalf of the whole political spectrum represented here - mrs guillaume, mr claude moraes, mr papanikolau, mr tavares, mrs matias, the whole political spectrum - i call on the countries of europe to show the necessary generosity and openness to receive these refugees! norway has offered 250 extra places, as mr claude moraes said earlier, a figure almost comparable to that of the european union as a whole. ladies and gentlemen, enough of paternal lessons of freedom to the eager youth of the so-called "arab spring" and a minimum of responsibility!
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, ten years after the events of 9/11, the risk of terrorist attacks remains real and aviation is still a preferred target. airport security scanners are a valid alternative to existing screening methods because they have good detection performance, in particular to deal with the major risk from non-metallic threat items. the commission’s draft measure does not impose the deployment of security scanners at eu airports, but allows member states and airports wishing to do so to deploy security scanners at eu airports under strict minimum eu operational safeguards and detection performance conditions. it only allows the use of non x-ray security scanners. failure to adopt the rules at european level will mean unilateral actions, and very possibly the us standards being imposed. where privacy and data protection are concerned, the use of security scanners raises important issues of privacy and data protection. the commission fully agrees with parliament’s objectives in this regard. our draft measure imposes strict conditions for the use of scanners. these conditions are in line with the advice given by the fundamental rights agency and the european data protection supervisor, and provide all the necessary safeguards for the protection of fundamental rights, privacy and data protection. passengers must be fully informed about the technology and of the conditions of the security scanning. hand searches, which are performed today to detect threat items, are perceived by many to be quite intrusive. the commission’s draft measure aims to offer passengers and staff an alternative, by going through a security scanner. two types of scanners currently exist. both systems ensure compliance with security standards and respect fundamental rights. for example, security scanners shall not store, retain, copy, print or retrieve images. one type of scanner, which is currently more common, makes use of a human reviewer to determine where possible threat items are to be found. to protect personal data in the use of such scanners, our proposal stipulates that no image can be seen at the security screening point, but is instead remotely analysed by a security officer located elsewhere. in addition, the image cannot be linked to the screened person and must be blurred or obscured to prevent the identification of the face of the passenger. the human reviewers analysing the image cannot see the screened passenger, nor do they have any access to personal data identifying the person. these safeguards address fundamental rights concerns by protecting the person’s dignity and privacy, and guarantee the protection of personal data. moreover these are minimum conditions and member states can impose stricter ones. the second type of scanner is able to recognise threats automatically. these machines do not produce a real image, but a stick figure which is marked with possible threat items. the commission shares the view that automated threat detection is the preferred method. it is therefore committed to working closely with the industry and member states to make sure that as soon as possible only such scanners are used. however, if today’s scanners were limited to models using stick figures, the market would be severely restricted giving undue advantage to a few manufacturers. finally, regardless of the type of scanner used, the draft measure gives passengers the possibility to choose not to go through a scanner. no passenger will be forced to use the scanner, as parliament requested. regarding the procedure, while we understand your interest, the commission does not believe that this draft measure should be adopted through the ordinary legislative procedure. amendments to the methods of screening fall within the scope of the comitology procedure as established in the existing framework regulation on aviation security. let me recall that before presenting this draft, an open and transparent consultation process with all parties involved was conducted, including a public consultation and an impact assessment. the commission exchanged views regularly with parliament. we waited for parliament’s resolution on aviation security of last july before finalising this draft. the current draft measures reflect parliament’s opinion to the greatest extent possible. moreover, in a field like aviation security, decisions need to be taken quickly to respond to a security threat. this is in the passengers’ interest. the ordinary legislative procedure would not be appropriate to achieve this objective. the result would be that member states would take national measures. the role of the european union in aviation security, and the ability to set common eu standards, would be diminished. it is important now to move forward on this file. parliament, passengers, member states and the aviation industry have been waiting for a clear position for a long time. a common eu approach to the use of this equipment is the only way to ensure both the highest level of aviation security and the best possible protection of eu citizens’ fundamental rights and health. common eu rules also overcome the existing fragmented situation.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, as you know, parliament rejected the motion for a resolution in 2008 in a very strong manner. the report i myself presented to the house was then adopted by a large majority in the same terms, with a great deal of consensus and with the efforts of the commission and the groups. what were the reasons for this change in parliament's attitude? the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the scanner is used in accordance with the requirements of the directive. the scanner was thus established as the appropriate one to ensure the safety of passengers and to preserve their rights. scanners will not use ionizing radiation, they will not be mandatory for either states or citizens, and all will protect the rights described above. the commission has taken up all these concerns in its future legislation, it is true, but it includes, in addition to the standard figure scanners, the possibility of another modality which, while guaranteeing the same set of rights, allows the inspection of an image, however blurry, of the passenger. we accept the reasons why this alternative has been forced to be included as an authorized control method. parliament also stressed the need to ensure fair competition and thus avoid any temptation to monopolize. however, today we are asking the commission to maintain all the principles we have defended in my report, all the guarantees of preserving fundamental rights. in addition, it is encouraged to work with industry and member states to ensure that in the near future only automatic protection scanners are used and no image viewing inspector is needed.
mr president, this is a debate that has already been held, but i am making comments with reference to new scenarios. after the failed attack on an airliner on 25 december 2009, more effectiveness in protection and detection technologies had to be sought. scanners at airports increase security levels but raise problems, especially with regard to the protection of fundamental rights. the council and the commission accepted mr de grandes' proposal that protective scanners should not use technologies based on ionizing radiation. and now we have to decide whether the scanning mechanism will use real images of the passengers or standard human figure templates, which is the most appropriate to protect the privacy, health and dignity of the passengers. but the standard template raises a free-competition problem, as today only one company has this technology. although other companies in the sector announce that they can introduce the algorithms needed to adapt the exploration machines, the time for the configuration of the machines can work against them. that is why the commission must examine the timeframe for the implementation of the rules on body scanners, avoiding a situation of possible monopoly and firmly supporting the report of this parliament and the report of mr de grandes, which are the same thing. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
ma'am, thank you so much for your interesting question. in order to avoid what you and i regret, what i say and repeat is that the commission should look very carefully at the time-frame for the implementation of the rules on body scanners and so that everyone can participate on equal terms but subject to what parliament and mr luis de grandes' report have said.
mr president, after listening to the debate, i want to confirm the position of our group and the committee on transport. we are all convinced and we want security against terrorist acts now. and we want to have scanners, because the commission has said so. but the transport committee made it clear that the scanners had to guarantee privacy as well and therefore a certain type of figure had to appear. my question to the commission is whether it has sufficiently analysed this possibility, the possibility which the committee on transport has agreed to, because it gives the impression that at the heart of all this, for the option which the commission is presenting today, there is an exclusively commercial issue. i'd like to ask you if you've done enough digging on who or what companies... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, this debate shows that the issue of security scanners is not without controversy, but on balance, the advantages prevail in terms of increasing security for our passengers and aircraft in non-intrusive ways. the proposal carefully balances considerations of privacy, health and public security. i recall once more that scanners are voluntary; they are voluntary for the airports that use them and, what is of particular importance, they will be voluntary for passengers. this means that if a passenger does not want to be scanned, he can opt for another form of screening. there was a question as to whether we put much thought into this issue; i think in this proposal – which was developed after very careful analyses and attempts to find a balance between privacy issues and security issues – that the right balance has been found. we consider it particularly important to have harmonised eu rules in this field, because if we do not have harmonisation then member states or airports will start doing this on their own. we could have a much more chaotic situation without harmonisation, as each member state and each airport could take any decision they like. i think that harmonisation is key in this particular area. as it will be approved under comitology, adjustments that would better preserve passenger rights can easily be made following, for example, technological developments. in my introduction i said that the commission is also in favour of moving as fast as possible from the present situation to that of stick figures, but it takes time and we have to preserve competition on the market. by having comitology procedures, action could be taken very fast. when we look at developments in this area, changes in the rules could be made rather quickly. to summarise, we consider that the proposal is well-balanced, carefully thought through and i think that with this proposal we will ensure both the privacy of passengers and – what is also extremely important – security. i would like to thank you once again for giving me the possibility to explain the commission’s position in this house.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
i would like to express once again my surprise at the fact that the pressure and blackmail of the moroccan regime has had its impact on many colleagues in this house. we did not ask our colleagues to vote for or against a government or a cause, but for legal rigor and international law. the european commission rushed to negotiate an extension of the eu-morocco fisheries agreement without consulting the european parliament, even though the lisbon treaty required it to do so. the current agreement de facto allows the european union fleet to fish in the waters of western sahara, which is an autonomous territory according to the united nations. a lot of people consider this illegal. in addition, various legal opinions, including some issued by the services of this house, at least support this legal uncertainty. we therefore felt that it was necessary to bring the matter before the european court of justice in order to have its opinion and that it would help us to take the right decision on an issue which has important political, but also economic, ecological and social consequences. i therefore regret that the majority of our colleagues did not understand it that way and that by voting against, they are contributing to the prolongation of a situation which is politically unsustainable and legally unacceptable.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament, – having regard to the commission proposal to parliament and the council (com(2011)0336), – having regard to article 294(2) and article 175, third paragraph, of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, pursuant to which the commission submitted the proposal to parliament (c7-0161/2011), – having regard to article 294(3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, – having regard to rule 55 and 46(1) of its rules of procedure, – having regard to the report of the committee on employment and social affairs (a7-0308/2011), 1. adopts its position at first reading, taking over the commission proposal; 2. calls on the commission to refer the matter to parliament again if it intends to amend its proposal substantially or replace it with another text; 3. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the national parliaments.
in writing. − in favour because, among other things, parliament calls on the high representative/vice-president of the commission and the governments of the eu member states to continue their efforts to find a common eu position on the request by the palestinian authority for un membership, and to avoid divisions among member states; parliament supports and calls on member states to be united in addressing the legitimate demand of the palestinians to be represented as a state at the united nations as a result of negotiations to be concluded during the current 66th session of the un general assembly; parliament calls, at the same time, on the international community, including the eu and its member states, to reconfirm their strong commitment to the security of the state of israel; and parliament reiterates its strong support for the two-state solution on the basis of the 1967 borders with jerusalem as capital of both states, with the state of israel and an independent, democratic, contiguous and viable state of palestine living side by side in peace and security.
in writing. despite the conservatives' desire to weaken the text, i welcome the excellent resolution adopted by parliament today. this ambitious, voluntary and responsible approach is the lever needed to overcome the ecological and social crisis. i welcome the signal sent by parliament on the concept of the 'green economy' on which the earth summit will focus: 'no' to the commodification and privatisation of the commons, 'no' to the reproduction of the models that have brought us to where we are today; the european parliament has voted in favour of a more resource-efficient, more equitable economy, which is environmentally sustainable and socially just. as sandrine bélier, member of the environment committee, put it: "20 years later, what will we have to answer severn suzuki? what will we say if another child stands up in rio in 2012 and expresses to us his fear of the future, his incomprehension of the inequalities on the planet and begs us to act before it is too late?" the resolution we have adopted today is a start to respond; parliament has been up to the challenge.
in writing. − in favour. especially because of the adoption of one amendment which deletes the call for a separate budget line.
in writing. − today’s vote represents a sorry chapter for the european parliament. a centre-right led majority has voted to muzzle the democratic process by blocking the referral of this controversial agreement to the european court of justice (ecj). the consent of the european parliament is required to conclude this agreement and, given the considerable concerns with the legality of the eu-morocco fisheries agreement, exercising this new power of the ep to refer the agreement to the ecj was a common-sense step to take. the failure to do so reflects badly on the european parliament and its role to defend democracy and basic rights. politically, the agreement is a blot on the eu’s foreign policy, but its compatibility with international law is also highly questionable. it is nothing short of scandalous that the eu is wilfully seeking to extend this agreement, under which the moroccan government grants fishing rights to the eu fishing fleet to fish in the waters of western sahara, where it has no right to do so. ultimately, the only responsible course of action for the commission is to revise this agreement with a view to excluding the waters of western sahara for which the government of morocco has no responsibility.
mr president, europe is in a very bad state and this parliament is expressing its bad mood. debate after debate insists that in this crisis there are many crises. the first is that of the divorce between the single currency and the lack of instruments to defend it from a fiscal and budgetary point of view. the second expresses the divorce between the productive economy - the real economy - and the global financialized economy, because the financial economy has become the enemy of growth and employment. but the third is the one that exposes our glaring problem with response times. too little, too late: too late, always dragging your feet. and there are many people in europe who want someone to say clearly at the next council that this is not about trickle-down loans or impossible deadlines or indefinite deadlines, but that what needs to be done now should be done: a new strategy to condition growth, employment, productive investment to get europe out of this hole that has put european citizens in a situation of despair such as we have not known since the project was launched more than fifty years ago.
mr president, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the european parliament's plenary expressed their support for romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen acquis because they have met the criteria laid down (police cooperation, data protection, visa system and schengen information system) as regards the external maritime and land borders, so that the council's refusal to endorse this compliance with the technical criteria and its indefinite postponement sends a message of concern to us, and this parliament clearly states this in its resolution. it is worrying, firstly, because it means the imposition of a double standard, a double standard, which conceals prejudices, not factual data, in relation to the reliability of compliance with the criteria, but, secondly, because it casts a shadow that undermines the credit, the prestige and the reliability of schengen as what it is and as what it should remain: an area of free movement of persons, and even more, the best expression to date that europe is citizenship, that europe is free movement of persons, that europe is more than the euro and the internal market and that europe has a political dimension. that is schengen.
mr president, religious freedom is recognized in the universal declaration of human rights and also in the international covenant on civil and political rights. egypt has been a party to the covenant since 1982. we also know the importance of freedom of assembly and expression. the seriousness of what happened in cairo on sunday is that disproportionate force was used against a minority of protesters who were demanding protection of their freedom of religion. we must have a thorough investigation of what happened and punish those responsible, as mr pöttering has rightly said. freedom of religion must be protected and respected by the states, as this parliament called for in its resolution of 20 january, mrs ashton. we want an egypt of freedom, justice and peace, an egypt far removed from facts like the ones that have happened. and egypt is a big country, a leader in the arab world, so what happens there has a huge impact. the events of sunday cannot be repeated. egypt must be an example of tolerance and harmony, not of violence and violation of freedoms. the union must pay the utmost attention to the respect of freedoms in the processes of change in the arab world which we want to encourage and accompany. in recent months, christian religious leaders and also representatives of civil society in some of these countries have conveyed to me their concern about the situation of religious freedom in their countries. i would like to know, mrs ashton, what measures you are going to propose to strengthen the european union's action in this field, as the foreign affairs council asked you to do last february.
madam president, our british colleagues in the house of commons, in honour of their country's admirable historical parliamentary and democratic tradition, have highlighted the intolerable practices of the murdoch group. the guardian's courage is also commendable. but murdoch's aberrant tentacles reach out to other latitudes. in spain, he has on his payroll a millionaire's salary, josé maría aznar, former prime minister, who wants so much to continue to influence spanish and even european politics. we're going into the election campaign. the people's party and its leader, mr rajoy, should make it clear to all europeans, before they start campaigning, how they are supported by mr murdoch and his cabinet, what the tycoon demands in return for supporting mr aznar and his foundation financially and whether this plot has anything to do with what happened in the uk, which has been commendably exposed.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the members for their support and interest in this decision. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, ms bowles and her super-sub mr schmidt, for the very constructive work on this important issue. the points mentioned today are in line with those which emerged from the discussions we had in the context of the interinstitutional negotiations. i believe the amendments introduced by parliament already factor in most of these ideas in a balanced way. it is now essential for the union to subscribe to these additional shares in proportion to its current share in the capital in order to preserve its influence in the bank. the deadline for subscription is the end of this year. i would like to thank you once again for your support for our proposal and for the rapid and effective legislative work. we see this as clear support for the activities of the european bank for reconstruction and development in helping countries to implement economic transition.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would first of all like to thank all the rapporteurs for their excellent spirit of cooperation and the hard work they have put into this report which is being presented today. the report on insurance guarantee schemes responds to the need to ensure that policyholders are protected against the insolvency of their company, regardless of where they take out the policy. the guarantee schemes currently in place in the member states contain different elements reflecting the respective national markets. the report supports a minimum level of harmonisation to respond to this diversity of systems in the different member states. the report calls on the commission to present a cross-border standardisation directive, consistent with country of origin principles, which provides a consistent level of consumer protection across the different types of insurance products. the commission is also called upon to carry out detailed impact assessments and public consultations on the inclusion of different types of insurance, so that there is a level playing field between european insurance markets. the report also calls on the commission to establish a single model for the financing by insurers of systems for the protection of insured persons in the event of insolvency. we welcome the commission's announcement that it will be presenting a draft on this subject. mr skinner wants me to convey his commitment to work in the same spirit of cooperation on the other insurance legislation currently being discussed in the european parliament.
madam president, commissioner, building europe means integrating, adding and really believing in federalism, but also in the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. houses start from the ground up, from the bottom up, and that is why europe must greatly improve its institutional relations with the regions. this protocol was a first attempt to move forward and it has not been taken advantage of. the regions are close to the people and their problems and have much to contribute. the committee of the regions recommends that the regions' views be included at least in the subsidiarity reports and that their views be conveyed to the community institutions. the council, in a written reply dated last month, tells me that it has no information on how the states are taking up regional concerns. that's what they told me back in 2010. nor is he aware of the recommendations made by the committee of the regions on this matter. the commission says the same, but it believes that the system is working well. do you agree with this answer or do you have something new to add?
in writing. − in 2002, the court of justice of the european union ruled that certain provisions of the existing bilateral agreements between the member states and third countries in the field of air services conflicted with article 49 tfeu on (non-discriminatory) freedom of establishment. those provisions needed to be brought into line with eu law to allow all eu air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the eu and those third countries. in its decision of 5 june 2003, the council therefore authorised the commission to open negotiations with those third countries with a view to replacing the provisions in question with an eu-level agreement (‘horizontal mandate’). the eu has sole competence in this field. the resulting agreements satisfy the criteria of effectiveness, proportionality and subsidiarity. they also meet a basic objective of the eu’s external policy in the field of aviation. in the case in point, cape verde has signed eight bilateral agreements, the relevant provisions of which must be replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a single agreement at eu level.
in writing. − in favour. parliament: 1. recognises that the new supervisory regime and the forthcoming solvency ii framework will further enhance consumer protection; 2. calls on the commission, with regard to the rules and definitions set out in solvency ii and the new supervisory framework, to come forward with proposals for a cross-border standardisation directive establishing a coherent and consistent cross-border framework for insurance guarantee schemes across member states, providing only last-resort protection to consumers when insurance undertakings are unable to fulfil their contractual commitments owing to insolvency; 3. calls on the commission to put forward rapidly the proposal for a directive on insurance guarantee schemes to complement deposit guarantee schemes, investor compensation schemes and solvency ii.
in writing. − value added tax (vat) constitutes a major source of revenue for the national budgets of the member states. the vat system, which is based on legislation adopted at european level and applied at national level, suffers from numerous shortcomings which do not make it fully efficient and compatible with the requirements of a true single market. on 1 december 2010, the commission launched a green paper on the future of vat. the aim of the green paper is to generate a broad-based debate with all the stakeholders on the evaluation of the current vat system and the possible ways forward to strengthen its coherence with the single market and its capacity as a revenue raiser whilst reducing the cost of compliance. the green paper covers in particular the treatment of cross-border supplies, as well as other key issues, addressing tax neutrality, the degree of harmonisation required in the single market and reducing ‘red tape’ whilst ensuring vat revenues for member states.
in writing. − in favour. the general objective is, on the basis of the findings of the mid-term review, to ensure the continuation of the eu guarantee for eib external financing for the remainder of the current financial perspectives 2007-2013, whilst introducing a number of new elements into the mandate. the new elements are the following: 1. activation of the eur 2 billion ‘optional mandate’, which was placed in reserve. this optional mandate is to be activated not as an increase of individual regional ceilings, but as a mandate dedicated to projects which contribute to the fight against climate change across all regions covered by the decision; 2. replacing the current system of regional objectives for operations under eu guarantee with horizontal high-level objectives covering all regions under the external mandate; 3. development by the commission, together with the eib, and in consultation with the european external action service (eeas), of operational guidelines for each region under the external mandate, reflecting eu regional strategies in order to strengthen the link between the implementation of eib activities in line with the general high-level objectives under the external mandate and eu regional priorities.
in writing. − in favour. the ebrd board of governors decided a capital increase on 14/15 may 2010. the authorised capital stock of the bank will increase by 50 % from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion. the purpose of the proposed legislation is to allow the european union to subscribe for additional callable shares in the ebrd, in proportion with the union’s current share in the capital (3.031 %).
in writing. − in favour. the regulation transposes into eu law the implementation of article 10 of the un firearms protocol (unfp) against the illicit manufacturing and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components, and their ammunition. the protocol was adopted in the un in 2001, entered into force in 2005 after its ratification by 40 un member states, and is the first binding agreement relating to small arms at global level. the regulation on the implementation of article 10 unfp covers the trade in and transfer of non-automatic firearms, their parts and ammunition for civil (not military) use to third countries, including countries not signatory to the unfp. it requires authorisation for export, import and transit of such items through third countries. an export authorisation can only be granted if the importing country has issued the relevant import authorisation. for third-country transit, a ‘no objection’ certificate will be required from the transit country.
in writing. − in favour. these ‘exceptional trade measures’ with the partners in the western balkans under the eu stabilisation and association programme are indeed preferential tariff measures, which guarantee duty-free access for most of the partner countries’ exports into the eu market. they need to be notified to the wto. the trade preferences were originally granted for a period ending on 31 december 2010 and currently apply to bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and kosovo (albania, the republic of croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, and montenegro fall under a different scheme). the present dossier extends the validity of these measures by five years, until 31 december 2015, and makes certain adjustments due to the entry into force of bilateral agreements with bosnia and herzegovina, and serbia.
in writing. − although there were enough proposals and policy content to agree on the text, i wish to stress that, if we were in a majority position, the resolution would have looked different and would have taken up, inter alia, the following points: stronger wording on the regulation of the financial industry and making a link to safeguarding the social and political stability of the eu; a call for an investment plan (avoid the term ‘growth plan’) with project bonds in order to foster the ecological transformation of the economy (europe 2020 strategy); emphasising the role of the commission as the core of the ‘economic government’ and clearer language as regards the democratic accountability of this ‘government’ (to the ep); harmonisation of corporate and energy taxation and the establishment of an eu financial transaction tax.
in writing. − we support the common resolution submitted by the epp, s&d, alde, ourselves and gue/ngl. joining schengen is conditional – a state has a right and an obligation to join it as soon as the preconditions are properly met. we are against additional preconditions not stipulated in the schengen acquis.
madam president, eighty million people, 16% of the population of the european union, have some form of disability. so this report by mr kosa has been a very timely report, a great report, which deals with and goes into the european disability strategy. i would like to highlight three ideas from this report: firstly, inclusive education, which is necessary to take account of the particular needs of each student, as stated in article 24 of the united nations convention; secondly, the need to open up the labour market to people with disabilities, in order to achieve precisely what the europe 2020 strategy called for, namely to reach 75% of employment rates; and thirdly, the economic crisis must never be seen as a disadvantage for people with disabilities. finally, other ideas which are also highlighted in the report: a unified european mobility card, so that all benefits and rights in the member states are mutually recognised, and a unified travel card, so that we can go further and work for this group.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this weekend i listened to a spanish writer whom i admire reflecting on learning in life; he called it 'the life understood'. today i would like to speak for a few minutes about politics, politics understood, so that my first words may be words of congratulation to spanish society and its representatives, to the state security forces and bodies, to the judges, to the former minister of the interior, alfredo pérez rubalcaba, and to president rodríguez zapatero, for having made possible the most awaited news of spanish democracy: the end of terrorism. a new era of hope is beginning for spanish society, which will never forget its victims. and now, on the subject of the rühle report, the comprehensive policy on public administration, we know that the modernisation of public procurement is a key part of the single market, a fundamental instrument for ensuring efficiency. that is why we are calling for a review, with a transparent report, so that smes can access the engine of the economy.
mr president, commissioner, so far, when we have been dealing with the subject of smes, we have been insisting on financial interventions, on the lack of liquidity and the difficulty of access to credit, because that is really the first problem. it is the case for governments, for smes and all companies, for banks and, above all, i would say, to a very large extent, for each and every citizen. but let me stress one aspect which i believe is strategically fundamental and which has only been partially touched upon: the internal market. in recent weeks the european institutions have stressed the importance of making decisive progress in developing the internal market as a strategic element or factor in overcoming the crisis. if we look at the relationship between the internal market and smes today, we see that only 23% of them have crossborder trade, and only 13% trade beyond the borders of their own territories, which gives us an accurate idea of the enormous deficits that still exist in this respect. it is very difficult to deal with the fragmentation of legislation on basic matters which the internal market has today. smes, when they put cost and benefit into perspective, really have a hard time financing the fragmentation of the internal market today, and that needs to be solved.
mr president, eta's terrorism has acknowledged its failure and is over. on these days of joy, let us remember that we basques and basques never accepted that they killed in our name. on october 28, 1978, we called the first demonstration against the terrorism of eta. that has always been the majority opinion of the basque citizens: eta, no. today, in better conditions than then, i ratify my request of 15 june 2010 for a peace programme for euskadi. we need your help. this will make it easier to strengthen peace, improve coexistence, work towards reconciliation and use memory to avoid repeating mistakes and to repair their consequences. peace begins by repairing the suffering of the victims, recognizing their civic courage, their renunciation of revenge. we owe them justice, solidarity and respect. so i propose that we change the sign of so many minutes of silence and pain for the lively, supportive and hopeful sound of the applause they deserve. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, as rapporteur for the report on the drafting of a directive on the rights of victims of crime, including terrorism, and as a spaniard who has suffered directly from the cruelty of the terrorist organization eta, i would like to thank president buzek for his support for my country and its victims. i understand the satisfaction of many people with this new eta statement, but i must remind them that we cannot yet throw the bells in the air, because, to date, they have not handed over their weapons, nor have they disbanded, nor have they apologised to their victims. it is also important for the honourable members to know that in spain we do not have to achieve any peace between two sides, because there has been no war. my brother, alberto jiménez-becerril, who was killed by eta in seville, along with his wife, was not returning from the war: he was going home, where his three children were waiting for him, who would never see him again. we have an obligation to explain to my brother's children that their parents were better than those who killed them. if we accept an end with no winners or losers, we'll be teaching these children that killing is a means to political ends. i therefore ask for the support of this house so that it will not be deceived by the terrorists of eta and their accomplices and will listen to the sincere voices of the victims, who want nothing more than peace born of justice. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, 'final cessation': two simple words that we have been waiting for so long. there have been too many murders, too many kidnappings, too many wounded, bombings, threats, insults and burned-out people's houses, and too many times we have had to endure it alone, misunderstood, singled out, discriminated against, ignored and sometimes forgotten. but we held on, because we knew we were going to get it, we knew that one day we would finish off eta, that terrorism would never get anything done. they are the only ones responsible for these 50 years of terrorism, the ones who have not allowed euskadi to live in peace and freedom. that is why we owe them nothing: neither to eta nor to those who have supported them. on the other hand, we do owe a lot to all those who, despite the tragedy, continued to defend freedom in the basque country. these days many feelings are mixed: the peace of mind of not being threatened again, the pride of knowing that we were where we should have been and, above all, the memory of the victims. his memory will help ensure that this never happens again. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the creation of an integrated and developed services market is not only one of the cornerstones of the european project, it is essential for growth and employment. the peer review process provided for in the directive has proved to be a useful tool. first, to clarify certain ambiguous situations which still persist; secondly, to assess whether the measures have been adopted by the member states and are being applied in accordance with the spirit of the directive; and thirdly, to facilitate and make extensive use of good practice. but it has become clear that there are still many national barriers, particularly to the growth of professional services between firms, and that it is necessary to ensure the full and proper application of the provisions of the directive. ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the services directive was a milestone in the construction of europe, but the process of mutual evaluation has shown us that we still have a long way to go.
madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate mr preda on this report, which once again confirms that development aid contributes to the fight against poverty and inequality and to the promotion and exercise of human rights. the european union is the largest international donor and so our sense of responsibility for aid effectiveness must remain the top priority on the european development agenda. busan will not only be the moment to reach legally binding agreements, but it will also be the moment for the european union to defend an ambitious stance in favour of an inclusive strategy, driven by all the countries concerned, pursuing the establishment of robust monitoring and transparency mechanisms in the fight against tax havens, and supporting the promotion and implementation of alternative sources of financing - such as a tax on financial transactions, the mobilisation of domestic resources or the strengthening and promotion of south-south and triangular cooperation. a key issue for spain will be the prioritisation of gender equality as an inescapable element in the aid effectiveness agenda. we therefore promote the creation of a gender indicator and i ask the european commission to support this proposal and also to support the involvement of civil society in the negotiation, monitoring and evaluation processes on aid effectiveness.
madam president, i will begin with a spanish saying that is less caesarean, but i think more in keeping with what the citizens are asking of us in these times of european turmoil: 'the best is the enemy of the good'. that is, we are asked to cooperate, to put forth effort, not to try to gain advantageous positions or notoriety. i think that the path we have taken is, frankly, the wrong one, and i even see the two amendments tabled by mr rivellini as very eloquent in this respect, since they go backwards in relation to the first proposals which, let us say, i consider too risky. in the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament we have debated this thoroughly and we continue to demand transparency and clarity in all accounts, as we have been doing and continue to do, but we regret that the path that has been chosen involves a renunciation of most of the institutions. i understand that a high-level group of the two institutions - as my colleague mr geier has proposed - was the right way to mature, if you, mrs gräßle, do not like the officials - i think they are doing their job. and, of course, to finally give the court of justice the last word is a sad solution. i think that the maturity of both institutions required a little more strength, a little more rigor.
member of the commission. − in the commission we exercise all the powers that we have to make member states adhere to the directives that are on our statute book. as you know, enforcement is a competence of member states. this is a border-line which is quite difficult because the commission is often held responsible for the final implementation in every corner in europe, but we know that we cannot cross borders. member states, in fact, have the full competence of enforcement in their own areas. what we do is try to coordinate the enforcement aspects. on food safety for example, we have systems such as rapex and the rasff that i would say are working very well in all member states, and in the health sector also the information on health security. all these work, but we are constantly monitoring what is happening. as i said, we are in constant contact with the various agencies in the member states at grassroots level to try to assist in whatever way possible – by training and also sometimes by subsidising initiatives that would ensure general safety for the whole of europe and the protection of the food chain in europe. the food chain in europe, i believe, is one – if not the only – sector that has a real single market in operation. that is also due to the efforts that are made by member states and by the commission to keep safety at the highest level of importance.
madam president, i thank the three commissioners for their presence here today. we are in a crisis which can only be resolved by re-launching trade. smes are undoubtedly the pillar on which the european economy rests and we undoubtedly need more europe and less market fragmentation. the digital revolution offers us many possibilities, and one of them is undoubtedly e-commerce. more and more consumers are buying online, but they do so only at national level; the situation is more complicated at european level. market barriers are not helping and e-commerce is almost non-existent at this level, at the pan-european level. in my opinion, the way out of the crisis - i have said this several times - is in digital format and the time has come to move from poetry to prose. we have to act. our smes need concrete measures to facilitate their pan-european opportunities and develop their full potential in a market of over 500 million consumers, and consumers need a pan-european market that offers sufficient guarantees to trust in a true digital single market. a true digital single market where consumers can consume products for which all their rights are guaranteed, with freedom of choice and at a good price. the consumer rights directive is a good first step. i would like to know what the commission's next steps are in terms of copyright, data protection, vat, accounting rules, single domain for online transactions, dispute resolution, product shipping, etc.
member of the commission. - mr arias echeverría, i appreciate your commitment and i have not forgotten the quality of the report you have written, which will also be a good illustration of the work we are doing. in the next few weeks, again before the end of this year, you can see that our agenda is very busy, i will present a communication on the strategy on e-commerce that i mentioned earlier. to be absolutely clear, we are not going to revise the e-commerce directive because in our analysis and following the consultation of our services and the member states, it has become clear to us that there was no clear demand for a revision of this directive. we're going to clarify and cover a number of fields. i would like to take the example of payment infrastructures, which you mentioned. this is a very important issue, because it is clearly one of the obstacles to the development of e-commerce, both for consumers and for traders. we will propose a regulation for the migration to pan-european payment instruments through the single area of payments in euro, which concerns transfers, direct debits. these are very specific but very important topics. i see that this proposal is currently moving forward in the trilogue and i hope that it can be adopted before the end of this year. we are also preparing a green paper on an integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments. it will address issues such as payment security and transparency, payment fees for consumers and merchants that you mentioned, market access for payment providers and standardisation issues. i would also like to see everything in this strategy and in this communication that concerns the fight against abuse and litigation, of course in good agreement with my colleague mr dalli, who will present very shortly - as we said earlier - his proposal on alternative dispute resolution.
madam president, i just wanted to refer to the working group on electronic commerce. i am very grateful for your answer, commissioner. in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), we have a working party on electronic commerce in which we would like to have your presence, to continue to discuss these proposals and to discuss them in greater depth, and thus to be aware of the concrete measures so that they can be well explained within the imco committee.
member of the commission. - as is normal and as you can see, mr arias echeverría, the commission is ready to cooperate. i know the efforts and studies carried out in this working party. of course, i'm available to meet with you anytime you want.
member of the commission. − i am very pleased to see that support for the rights of consumers is quite prevalent in this parliament and i am very comforted by this. what i can say is that you are completely correct: unless consumers know of their rights and unless they have full access to exercise those rights, whatever rights that we put on paper are meaningless. therefore the directive has to consider issues of how consumers are going to be facilitated into exercising their rights of redress without abusing them. we are not here for abuse. we are here for exercise of rights. in this context we already have organisations within the european union. we have the consumer protection centres; we have the european consumer centres that are organised in all member states to give advice to consumers on their rights, and also to assist them, even today, to exercise their rights, even for redress across borders. this is a function that we can consider: expanding the scope to maybe develop it into being the advocates of consumers when it comes to exercising their right of redress.
member of the commission. - the task of european commissioner is both exciting and difficult because i am asked - and i understand this very well - to give this directive on services its full potential to facilitate the development of the service economy in europe - and this directive covers, i repeat, 40% of gdp - and to deal with the problems that arise in this or that country when we try to do so. mr morganti, i know the sensitive issue of the beach concessions. the legal analysis we are making, in application of european law, of this directive - which has long since ceased to be called bolkestein, and which has been greatly improved by parliament, which, moreover, adopted it by a large majority - leads me to say that renewal of these beach concessions cannot be granted without a call for tenders. that's the problem. i understand the difficulty this poses for small concessions, but we must prevent large companies or large companies from having such monopolies. on this issue, mr morganti, i am in constructive dialogue with the italian authorities. we will be as pragmatic as possible, as flexible as possible, while respecting european law. that's all i can say. i am in constructive dialogue with the italian authorities on this matter.
member of the commission. - mr morganti, i think we should not mix different subjects. i was minister for the environment, i was also minister for fisheries in my own country and i know what the monitoring of the seas and coasts means. these are issues that are often dealt with by public authorities or by volunteer professionals. we are talking about a different subject when we talk about beach concessions and seaside concessions, which in some cases involve safety issues. but, mr morganti, at least give me credit for the fact that, as a commissioner, it is my task, in particular, to be the guardian of the treaty, together with my colleagues, and to ensure that european law, as it has been established by the work of the co-legislators, is applied rigorously, fairly and objectively. it is a matter of principle that the council of ministers should be consulted on the matter. i am aware that other professions have been excluded, which are covered by specific and specific texts. but the one you are referring to and which is a problem for you has not been excluded from the services directive. the only thing i can say is that i will try, as intelligently as possible, in my dialogue with the italian authorities, to find pragmatic solutions, but in compliance with the european law to which i am bound.
member of the commission. - mr kelly, thank you for your question. to continue the debate we had last night on public procurement - which, i remind members, represents 17%, perhaps even 19% today, of european gdp - the text we are going to present in december will cover both the simplification of public procurement, the specific subject of concessions, and, as you know, a tool which i am preparing with my colleague, mr de gucht, on the reciprocity we expect from other countries for the parallel opening of their markets in return for our own opening. yes, i am in favour of this and mrs kroes will naturally support this effort as part of her responsibilities for electronic signatures and electronic public procurement. as i said last night, we must use all the modern means of communication, as we do with local authorities through the imi system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. - my answer is yes, mr kelly. this idea of a passport will be one of the proposals we will put forward in december in the package on public procurement. of course, we have to analyse the details of what it will represent, because the word passport does not have the same meaning when it comes to the tool used, the document used by citizens, the passport that i am going to propose for venture capital or the passport in public procurement.
mr obermayr has the floor for a point of order.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? high isbo! the european parliament has just adopted an amendment to the council's position on draft amending budget no 5 for 2011. in accordance with article 314 (4) (c) of the treaty, i agree that the president of the european parliament may convene a conciliation committee. at the same time, i would like to assure you that the council will examine this amendment with a positive attitude and will take a position as soon as possible within 10 days, in order to avoid a conciliation committee meeting.
mr president, i would like to i simply want to propose that in recital c it should be stated that an agreement has been reached with the council on the subject of correlation tables, and that where it says: 'parliament reiterates its resolve to reach an agreement with the council as soon as possible on the subject of correlation tables', it should now say: 'parliament welcomes the agreement reached with the council on the subject of correlation tables'.
mr president, we have today adopted the report on how this parliament thinks the european disability strategy should be worked on, which is great news because it represents the first effort of coordination and homologation for the equality of people with disabilities within the european union. we have adopted it with three objectives: to promote the full social integration, through education, and the employment of people with disabilities; to avoid the double discrimination that exists because of the fact of being young and disabled, woman and disabled person or disabled in the urban world or in the rural world; and also to seek european approval of what the construction of the fourth pillar of the welfare state should entail, at a time when we are debating the sustainability of the whole welfare state. but the most important thing is the call we are making for all countries to ratify the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and, above all, the call for the commission to unblock the discrimination directive, because europe cannot assume or apply a patched-up policy on discrimination against people who are today on the margins of public efforts: what we do need is a complete and comprehensive policy.
many initiatives have been developed, but we have not yet achieved equal treatment of people with disabilities. we have to look at the figures on unemployment, poverty, employment and education. i also find it regrettable that the communication on the european disability strategy does not include the perspectives of women, when women are doubly discriminated against in this group. their integration will bring them independence and dignity, but it will also bring innovation and new quality jobs to the european union. we need to apply existing legislation to make progress and i believed that the only way forward was to take action against states that did not comply with this legislation. that is why i voted for amendment no 1, which has not been adopted. it was what people with disabilities expected of us. i think we have failed them, but we will have to keep working in the future.
mr president, i have again voted in favour, but we are faced with the continuing infringement by the member states of the directive, which affects the free movement of workers. the commission must ensure that this legislation is complied with, but it will need to be accompanied by a long-term strategy, in a comprehensive manner, and, moreover, by a coherent and effective policy, in order to remove all legal and practical obstacles. this will also require coordination at european, national, regional and local level. i believe that these measures will enable us to see the positive effects of free movement, to eliminate the persistent discrimination and stereotypes that still exist and thus to integrate these people in the host countries. that is the challenge we have before us and i hope we can achieve it.
today, the concept of family has changed. more and more women are deciding to become single mothers, but the group is broader because it includes widows or very young people. some of them are therefore more vulnerable, at risk of poverty and social exclusion. this requires improving the conditions for their integration into the labour market and training, and providing them with quality services to enable them to reconcile work and family life. i regret that the report did not include the amendments which addressed the reality of men who may be in the same situation, especially in view of the fact that in many member states of the union legislation allows people of the same sex to marry and adopt children; that would be in line with the reality of groups and equal treatment in europe.
in writing. − in favour. this draft amending budget (dab) no 5 for the year 2011 covers the following: a modification to the establishment plan of the european data protection supervisor (edps); a modification to the establishment plan of the european external action service (eeas). concerning the two points of draft amending budget no 5/2010 and the council’s position on it, parliament considers that, if the appointment represented ‘an exceptional circumstance for the edps’ then an institution could seek the adoption of an amending budget during the course of the budget year every time that a new post is being created or an appointment has been made in a higher grade. therefore your rapporteur recommends to amend the council’s position by restoring the 2011 establishment plan of the edps.
in writing. − abstention. the report now states that the college has improved its accounting system and that the new rules on procurement and the procurement manual are now finalised. there is a better internal control system compared to 2009. in short, progress has been made, illegal contracts have been terminated and recovery of unduly paid private expenditure has been finalised. but we are still very critical of the way in which the police college handles its finances and would prefer to attach the whole agency, which is providing police training on a european level, to a larger and better run entity, namely europol.
in writing. − against. an important issue which caused the postponement of the 2009 discharge was the fact that experts and staff were not checked on their independence or on possible conflicts of interest, which led to a lack of impartiality. they have improved on paper (for the time being) the procedures on compliance with the respective codes of conduct. a large majority on the committee on budgetary control is in favour of granting discharge. but we have tabled in committee a number of amendments (which were adopted) to ensure that, if they receive discharge for 2009, the committee on budgetary control will keep a close eye on developments, and also to take full account of the lack of progress made in the decision on next year’s discharge. we should not grant discharge to this agency, and we should make it clear that a lot still has to be done to tackle problems which might also harm the health of european citizens.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament, a. whereas, according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance, 1. adopts its position at first reading, taking over the commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission; 2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the national parliaments.
in writing. − in favour. non-controversial issue. it is simply a call for improving information about rights and their enforcement and information on alternative dispute resolution schemes targeted in particular at citizens and smes.
in writing. − in favour. in fact it has almost the same content as the first report, but with some stronger formulations because the council did not move at all in providing the requested information and refused to show up at meetings of the committee on budgetary control. furthermore it is updated, taking account of the opinions of the parliament and council legal services. a large majority of the committee on budgetary control are in favour of not granting discharge. the non-cooperative attitude of the council leaves us and all other groups no other choice than to refuse discharge.
in writing. − in favour. the commission proposal amends existing legislation on limits to pollutant emissions from engines intended to power agricultural and forestry tractors. the existing legislation provides for current stage iii a limits to be replaced by more stringent stage iii b limits, entering into force progressively from 1 january 2011 with regard to placing on the market, and from 1 january 2010 as regards the type approval for those engines. directive 2000/25/ec provides for a review clause in order to take into account the specificities of tractors of categories t2, t4.1 and c.2 called narrow-track tractors (maximum width less than 1.15 m). as a result of technical studies carried out in 2007, 2009 and 2010, the commission has established that it is not technically feasible for tractors classified within the categories t2, c2 and t4.1 to meet the requirements of stages iiib and iv by the dates set out in the directive. a delay of 3 years for stage iiib and stage iv requirements is proposed by the commission.
in writing. − against. the commission proposal weakens existing legislation on limits to pollutant emissions from diesel engines installed in construction, agricultural and forestry machinery, railcars & locomotives, inland waterway vessels, constant speed engines and small petrol engines used in different types of machinery. the existing directive provides for emission limit stages of increasing stringency with corresponding compliance dates. the current applicable stage of emission limits for the majority of diesel engines referred to as stage iii a will be replaced by the more stringent stage iii b limits progressively as of 1 january 2011, and the type approval period for these engines started on 1 january 2010. the commission proposes increasing the already-permitted flexibility for manufacturers to place on the market 20% of engines that do not comply with the emission limit values to 50% in order to mitigate further the economic costs on the grounds of the economic recession. in addition, the flexibility is extended to railcars and locomotives. expiry of the measure is proposed for 31 december 2013.
in writing. − in favour. it was crucial that amendment 1 on paragraph 53 was rejected, and that the original text remains as follows: 53. notes that the member states should, as a priority, agree and adopt as soon as possible the proposal for a council directive on implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation (com(2008)0426); calls on the commission to continue to support the overcoming of technical difficulties within the council in order to ensure that a swift agreement is reached; notes that anti-discrimination policy plays a key role in promoting social inclusion and employment for people with disabilities;
in writing. − i voted in favour. this year marks the 40th anniversary of european public procurement law. the entry into force on 26 july 1971 of council directive 71/305/eec concerning the coordination of procedures for the award of public works contracts is an event seldom recalled. the commission green paper on the modernisation of eu public procurement policy mentions the directive only once. nonetheless, the anniversary offers an occasion for taking stock and examining where european public procurement policy has succeeded and where it has failed. the ep position is that any revision of the public procurement directives should proceed from the recognition that there is now considerable experience with eu public procurement law in europe: whereas, in the early days, strictly formalised procedures were necessary in order to bring a certain degree of professionalism to public procurement practice and to accustom the contracting authorities to the principles of transparency, non-discrimination and competition, these things are nowadays common practice. what is required today is a slimming-down of public procurement law to refocus it on the core task of guaranteeing transparency and non-discrimination and safeguarding competition.
in writing. − in favour. i am glad that article 21 has been kept: ‘calls on the commission to ensure that member states implement directive 2004/38/ec without any discrimination, including on grounds of sexual orientation; reminds the commission of previous calls to ensure freedom of movement for all eu citizens and their families, regardless of their sexual orientation’.
in writing. − against. the report unfortunately approves the mutual evaluation process of the services directive and calls for the abolition of remaining regulatory barriers.
in writing. − i voted against. the rapporteur made the choice to negotiate, on a bilateral basis, compromises with the s&d group, which had the expected consequence of improving some of the most controversial parts of the draft report. however, the outcome remains negative as the accent is still on the need to increase trade liberalisation and the free movement of capital, as well as promoting the imf as the global institutional coordinator and standard-setter, even though some useful amendments (including ours) were adopted. moreover, and because of the useful amendments adopted, certain parts of the report are inconsistent. apart from its content and its purely formal aspects, the report (which in the end is quite long) is also messy, as the original structure was altered by amendments adopted and by the poor quality and scope of compromises negotiated by the two big groups. therefore, all in all, the draft report adopted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs is not acceptable from a green perspective.
in writing. − in favour. some of the interesting points are: - member states to ensure access to childcare facilities: 50% of necessary care for 0-3 year-olds and 100% of care for 3-6 year-olds (par 16, am by franziska), - member states to give priority to work-life balance by introducing more family-friendly working conditions/flexible working hours and teleworking, nurseries etc), - member states to provide training courses and vocational training aimed at facilitating employment for single mothers by funding through the european social fund (partly am franziska) - member states to provide tax deductions and other financial incentives to companies that employ single parents or create or provide on-site childcare facilities (par 18) - member states to ensure that single mothers benefit from housing support (par. 22)
in writing. − i voted in favour. organised crime now takes place on a transnational, cross-border basis and has to be fought using the same approach. moreover, as recognised by the commission, the presence and firm establishment of italian mafias (ndrangheta, camorra, cosa nostra, sacra corona unita) in nearly all eu countries is, to all intents and purposes, a european problem of concern, as are the networks established between european and non-european criminal organisations such as the russian, chinese, albanian and nigerian mafias, turkish and north african criminal organisations and the colombian and mexican drug cartels. the treaty of lisbon opens up new opportunities and provides new instruments at eu level, in terms of both judicial and police cooperation and of authorities responsible for countering transnational organised crime (europol, eurojust, olaf, european public prosecutor), not to mention the possibilities of establishing common rules to combat such crime more effectively.
in writing. − in favour. i would like to underline the following important point, among others: 5. points out that aid effectiveness requires poor countries to be able to mobilise domestic revenues; urges the eu once again, therefore, to make the fight against tax havens and tax evasion its utmost priority, while also promoting alternative sources of development finance, for example through the introduction of a financial transaction tax; likewise, urges the eu to give developing countries more help with tax reforms, thereby supporting the establishment of effective, efficient, fair and sustainable tax systems, which should have the effect of reducing poverty and aid dependency.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, today we are talking about liège, today we are talking about jucu, today we are talking about arcelor, nokia... yesterday it was renault, today it was vilvoorde, tomorrow it will be gijón, asturias, france, luxembourg... how long, commissioner, are we going to stand by when it is clear that what is happening is a deindustrialisation of europe, when companies are seeking to maximise their financial profits while forgetting the needs of the people and the regions concerned, in the midst of a crisis of credibility among workers, of a rage spreading across europe that these companies can do whatever they want without anyone imposing the slightest condition on their activities? we have been asking for this for years - not now, commissioner - and the honourable member has said it: six years since the cottigny report. nothing has been done, mr commissioner. moreover, with regard to the globalisation fund to which you referred, we are witnessing an attempt to denature it, to devote it to other things, and even to abolish the globalisation fund itself. we need a new european strategy now, commissioner, to deal with these restructurings; we need you to relaunch the consultation which you have stopped, which you were doing and which you have stopped because of the pressure of industry and businesseurope. we need to put an end to the delinquency and we need to put an end to the resignation in the college of commissioners. i know of your efforts, commissioner, but you must multiply them, because europe cannot continue to stand by passively while its industrial fabric is being destroyed. we cannot let the market be omnipotent and continue to stand still. we must create a european legislative framework which covers, advances the needs before and after restructuring, which listens to the trade unions, the workers and, above all, commissioner, a law of reason and not the law of the jungle, which is what we are seeing impotent in the european parliament and, i am afraid, in you too. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, we have to break the strategy and tactics of arcelormittal. i have always opposed the entry into europe of this predatory and relocating businessman, mr mittal. the commissioner, do not allow the social barbarity of mr mittal and his leaders, who have already become so rich with arcelor stock options. the commissioner, on behalf of europe, on behalf of the workers of europe, on behalf of the peoples of europe, must confront mr mittal once and for all. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, the closure of arcelor affects 400 workers from the basque country, from sestao (vizcaya), my homeland. for two months they will be unemployed, due to the low activity of the construction and steel market and the threat of the power of southeast asia. i hope that they will be able to access the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund, because these people, who are committed to their businesses and have a proven professional record, need a future and because otherwise the basque country, with its 2 200 000 inhabitants, would suffer serious consequences. this will must be accompanied, madam commissioner, by a european industrial strategy, a firm commitment to innovation, training for new jobs and the management of existing knowledge, because otherwise we risk losing a strategic sector, impoverishing europe and its citizens. that is why i am asking you, madam commissioner, for a firm commitment and leadership in the wise use of the european funds, in the formulation of bold strategies so that we can build the future.
madam president, commissioner, at a time when europe is going through an unprecedented economic crisis, with an unemployment rate of 9.5%, i think it is very positive to be debating today the agenda for new skills and jobs, and i would like to congratulate mrs bastos on the quality of this report which, as part of strategy 2020, will be a key contribution to achieving the ambitious target of a 75% employment rate for the european union. the 23 million unemployed europeans are calling on the institutions and governments to take the necessary measures and adopt the reforms that will guarantee the competitiveness of their labour markets and job creation. and this agenda is on track, and only by working together, with a strengthened single market, will we achieve this objective. i would like to refer specifically to one of the sectors which generates the most employment in the whole of the union and which is suffering the most at the moment: small and mediumsized enterprises. the importance of smes in the european union is evident when we consider that they generate 84% of jobs. in my country, spain, it is even higher. in this respect, our efforts must be directed towards the ductility of the labour market, the elimination of rigid procedures which slow down the creation of enterprises and the promotion of aid to the selfemployed and to smes. flexibility and job security will be key to understanding the standards of the future, labour mobility and fruitful cooperation between educational institutions and enterprises.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to join in congratulating mrs bastos on this report. and on this subject we are discussing today, on new skills for new jobs, i would like to highlight, from the training point of view, three elements which i believe are fundamental to combating, in particular, youth unemployment. firstly, to promote training in those disciplines which enhance the development of transversal competences, such as digital competence in the use of new ict, creativity and initiative, the ability to work in a team and language learning, all in an environment conducive to mobility. secondly, to ensure the mutual recognition of qualifications and qualifications obtained through any form of learning: vocational training, non-formal lifelong learning, voluntary work... finally, i would like to stress that although these are primarily member states' responsibilities, the european union should continue to provide resources for education and training programmes in order to provide quality education that is accessible to all. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission has provided for an increase of approximately 8% in these programmes in the 2012 budget. it's a good road.
madam president, in this report we are seeking to redefine our labour market to bring it closer to new niches of employment and, from that point of view, this report is positive and meets expectations. but i must admit that i too am puzzled by what the commission says in its communication and by what this report says not. for example, we are warning that in the coming years 85% of the jobs that will be created will require high qualifications, so we are warning the immediate generation that if they want to find a job in the coming years, they must be trained and must, moreover, do so continuously. we ask them for more qualifications and yet we offer them more precariousness. doesn't that seem contradictory to you? or at least, do we not find it regrettable that greater efforts are met with fewer rights? the maxim that "the more temporary the more employability" has failed. we have created jobs with growth and we are destroying them in times of recession and in the meantime we have never succeeded in getting rid of the underlying problem, which is that, regardless of the cycle we are in, the youth unemployment rate is always twice the general unemployment rate; fewer rights than in the previous decade, but always the same unemployment rates. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a step in the right direction.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i am very grateful for the president's speeches and explanations, which were very long but still not convincing. as has been explained, we are dealing with a health issue. that is what the who says, not what the european parliament says. we are faced with an issue of economic opportunity. this is confirmed by the studies we have carried out, which show that it is not a question of costs, but rather an opportunity to improve and strengthen even more this way out of the crisis, also in terms of gender. we are faced with a question of rights, the rights of women who work and want to be mothers and the rights of mothers who want to work. we are faced with a question of co-responsibility, because we cannot ignore that having children is not only the responsibility of mothers, but also of parents and, in general, of society as a whole. because, as far as i know, there is no other way we know of having children, and societies need them. we are faced with the obligation for parents to assume their responsibility in fatherhood, but also for society to assume that this is not a duty that the mother should fulfill alone. and we are, i should also like to say, faced with a question of europeanism, because it is true that there are prerogatives that are up to the member states, but i think we will agree that we should ensure that no mother in the european union feels discriminated against because in her country the government in office does not have that clearly responsible view of what the rights of a working mother mean.
congratulations on your upcoming fatherhood, mr stoyanov. we have ended with this speech the 'eye-catching of the president's' shift in a debate which i believe has been one of the most fascinating i have ever presided over. i am sure my male colleagues will not be offended if i say that almost always when the majority of the speakers are women, the debates are usually very interesting. we shall now give the floor to the council representative, mr radoslaw mleczko, to conclude by reacting to the whole range of speeches which have been made on this important subject.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? first of all, i would like to make a self-critical apology to the president for having over-scheduled my opening remarks. this was dictated by two reasons: firstly - very prosaically - because this is my debut in the european parliament; secondly - more importantly - because after careful consideration of the solutions that have a positive impact on work-life balance, pro-family solutions or solutions that are intended to make it easier for mothers to return to work in the 27 member states. believe me, it teaches you a great deal of humility. it also teaches the conviction that when we debate the length and full pay of maternity leave, we should - and it is our duty - take into account the traditions, the experience of the member states, and the fact that this experience is based on the existing directive, which we are talking about here, if it is amended. i could, of course, talk here endlessly about these changes. i would ask the president to take my floor in a moment if i do not restrain myself in my comments. i would therefore like to thank mrs estreli all the more for asking the presidency questions and for giving me the opportunity to take part in a debate which i am convinced will be extremely important for the further development of the work on this dossier, whether it is concluded during the polish presidency or the next one. we're a trio with denmark, with cyprus. we will cooperate and share our observations and experiences. i would like to point out in particular that you have made very specific proposals for how to get out of the situation we are in. there were proposals to return to the european commission's proposal, and also reflections on the possibility of a new proposal from the european commission, a 'pillar clause' or a so-called bridge clause, which could be a response to various doubts. i also thank you very much for respecting the existing traditions of the member states, for saying that we have standards and that we are not starting from scratch, and moreover that the existing directive has created traditions on which the future can be built. i also thank you for your comments which have indicated the feasibility of the solutions that would be introduced or proposed. i thank you for the encouragement to talk and find the best solutions, and for the presidency's requests for new initiatives. the conclusion to be drawn from our debate is simple for me - as the person responsible for the work on this directive - a factual analysis of all the arguments that have been raised today, immediate contact with the european commission and with my colleagues in the council.
mr president-in-office of the council, i should like to inform you that, as a matter of principle, neither the council nor the commission has any time limits for their interventions other than their own prudence and their own sense of proportion. naturally, i recommend that both virtues be used, but there is no time limit on your intervention. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? ladies and gentlemen! i have listened with interest to the speeches so far and i am particularly pleased with the declaration of the will to adopt the 2012 budget in a realistic way quickly and efficiently. we are all aware of the great efforts currently being made by the member states and the serious budgetary constraints they face. in no case should a negative signal be sent to european citizens at a time when member states are trying to consolidate their budgets. i would like to recall that the member states managed to reach agreement on the council's position on the 2012 budget by a small majority. an increase of 2,9% in commitment appropriations and 2,02% in payment appropriations was accepted compared to 2011. in setting its position on the 2012 draft budget, the council made a particular effort to respect the existing ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. where appropriate, appropriate margins have been provided within the different headings to deal with unforeseen situations. the council is therefore concerned about the amendments of the european parliament which would significantly reduce some of these margins or even lead to exceeding the ceiling of the mff. the council also regrets the increases in payment appropriations which the european parliament intends to put to the vote, especially when the level of these increases exceeds the amounts set in the commission's 2012 draft budget. even if the european parliament wishes to support and highlight its priorities, the level of payment appropriations should be sufficient but not overestimated. we must all be aware that overestimating the level of payments is contributing to an unnecessary increase in budget deficits in many member states and to an increase in borrowing needs, which is very dangerous in the current situation on the capital markets. therefore, the use of funds in the past as well as realistic needs in 2012 must be duly taken into account. i shall now present a number of issues to which the council attaches particular importance. the council is concerned that the increases which the european parliament intends to put to the vote exceed the ceilings under sub-title 1a and title 4 by more than eur 240 million. the council notes that the european parliament therefore intends to request the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument. as regards the iter project, the council would like to see an agreement on additional funding for this project reached as soon as possible. however, it regrets that the european parliament has rejected any possibility of regrouping the resources to support the financing of the iter project. for title 1b, the council accepted an increase of more than 5% in payment appropriations. the council is concerned about the amendments proposed by the european parliament which reinstate the draft budget for 2012. the consequence of such action would be an increase of more than 8%. the council also notes the efforts made by the european parliament to limit increases in appropriations leading to the ceiling under heading 4 being exceeded. it is, however, seriously concerned by the limitations on the resources allocated to the implementation of the common foreign and security policy, as proposed by the european parliament. this is a policy of great importance to the council and to the european union as a whole. as regards title 5, the council stresses the importance of strict control of administrative expenditure, in particular by deepening interinstitutional cooperation and increasing administrative efficiency. such action should be taken to optimise the use of limited resources in the context of the rigorous fiscal consolidation currently undertaken by all member states. in my view, there is no difference between the council and the parliament as regards the priorities of the european union which should be supported by the next year's union budget. there is a discussion about the level of resources needed to ensure these priorities are met. that level, in particular the level of payments, should be set in such a way as not to create an excessive budgetary burden for the member states and not to force them to reduce other important expenditure financed from national budgets. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the council expresses its hope and desire that the remaining stages of the budgetary procedure will be conducted in a spirit of cooperation, which will enable us to reach an agreement on the 2012 budget that satisfies all parties in these particularly difficult budgetary conditions.
member of the commission. − mr president, in the september plenary we discussed the council reading. now we have the parliament reading, just several hours before it is to be finalised. it is clear that parliament has taken a different approach from the council on several very important issues and, if the council is to reconfirm its position, despite the fact that we now have this very exceptional triangle with president buzek, minister dominik and the commissioner all coming from the same country, it is very likely that we will need a conciliation starting on 1 november and lasting 21 days. as regards the general line taken by parliament and now endorsed by the rapporteurs ms balzani, mr fernandes and mr böge, we welcome the position to restore the draft budget in general. what is more, parliament has exhausted the margins in heading 1a; mainly the margins, but it is also asking for the flexibility instrument in heading 1a and in heading 4 more than requested by the commission. as for the priorities, they are the same. we endorse the priorities reinforced by parliament. i think we should finance the goals of the 2020 strategy better. this is also conducive to growth and jobs and we should accommodate it within the very restrained economic and fiscal framework of today’s europe. in the field of external action, we are in favour of the flexibility instrument but this is precisely to reinforce neighbourhood policy, a sensitive issue of great importance for all the institutions. we have to invest in the stability of our neighbourhood and it cannot be financed exclusively via redeployment. as for the numbers – i mean a eur 400 million reinforcement – there is agreement between the institutions but we cannot just do this via redeployment. this is simply not workable under the present restraints of heading 4. now there is a different stance on iter. here the commission’s mission to invent one more compromise amendment after the compromise amendments so far submitted makes sense only if there is goodwill to go in parallel and not to make iter a hot issue as it was last time, which would make agreement over the 2012 budget more difficult. now to the level of payments. the level of payments is always a sensitive issue. our draft budget was based on the information delivered by the 27 member states and we were placing the level of payments roughly eur 9 billion below the margin for 2012. therefore this already represents self-restraint, but now i can reconfirm that the payments are moving. this is not unusual at the end of a financial perspective. we have requests for payments. this year it is not about a surplus, it is about a shortage of payments for 2011, reflected already in amending budget 6/2011. this is the state of play regarding the payments; therefore we cannot endorse the position of the council to limit payments in the framework of inflationary adjustment. we are facing a shortfall of payments in research and development and in other areas already this year 2011. as for the administrative budget, i think what has to be appreciated is the effort of the largest body, that is the commission, to freeze nominally and not ask for any more posts. however, we note that parliament was voting as usual for some reserves, hopefully to be released at the time of conciliation. our letter of executability signed today should indicate also our position on pilot projects and preparatory actions. one last comment on the deprived persons scheme. we made an additional effort to release money in its total value, but regrettably last week’s agriculture council did not overcome the deadlock over the legal basis for the deprived persons scheme, therefore the commission is forced to put part of the appropriations into the reserve: that is eur 340 million out of eur 500 million. there is still time to act and we still have time to act to release the overall amount. ahead of the process of conciliation, our role is to submit the most updated forecasts on how it is developing this year. this is instructive for the next year and we are also to play as usual the role of honest broker in order to shape the compromise for 2012. (applause)
the committee on foreign affairs and security has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, and mr commissioner, what can i tell you about heading 4 that we do not all know? it is a heading which has historically been underfunded and with which we have to meet the commitments of the european union, increasing commitments in the field of external action. we must respond to the challenge we have set ourselves, to make the european union a global player with diminishing resources, also this year, or especially this year. and we have to finance with this underfunded heading 4 the commitments made previously, which were political priorities of the european union and which require continuity, and also the new priorities such as, this year, the financing of the 'arab spring'. we have acted with great responsibility in parliament and in the committee on foreign affairs, limiting ourselves to the maximum in order to achieve the minimum necessary to meet the challenges we face. we have therefore proposed the reinstatement of the amounts provided for in the commission's draft budget for unavoidable priorities such as palestine or the stability instrument, but we must regret cuts in some other lines which are equally priority for parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, i thank the rapporteurs balzani and fernandes, and also our alternative rapporteur, mr la via, who have conducted a rapid procedure with a great deal of consensus on highly controversial matters on which the political groups had very different origins, positions and interests. in my group's view, this budget combines the necessary austerity with sufficient funding, both in commitments and payments. our desire not to exceed the ceilings for the headings has been partially fulfilled, since we have two very specific reasons for exceeding them, namely the neighbourhood instrument and the seventh framework programme. it should not be difficult to reach agreement with the council on this matter. the financing of iter is more a future problem than a problem of this budget year. my group cannot accept that the 2012 accounts are profoundly altered by the council's position on this matter. we are waiting for the reconciliation of payments, but the council must also consider the fact that the commission will present an amending budget at the end of this year. this shows that there is more credit consumption rate than expected. the council's wish to leave payments at around 2% is therefore not compatible with the maintenance of research or cohesion policy in 2012. and from the point of view of parliament's budget, i think that for the first time a truly restrictive budget is being presented, in which we also believe that there are sacrifices for members, such as the freezing of their allowances or a general reduction in their travel expenses. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr fernandes.
mr president, we are in crisis, yes, but that is why we have to see the european budget as a support tool for all countries, and we have to see it as an instrument to guarantee and increase investment in public policies. because with this budget we maintain the level of funding for basic policies such as cohesion policy or the common agricultural policy, we create a fund for specific measures in favour of producers affected by the e. coli crisis, and we also maintain our support for the most disadvantaged through the european food aid programme. in this budget we also stress the need to strengthen the european union's investment in order to have a policy of sustainable, solidary and intelligent growth. programmes such as erasmus, lifelong learning, youth in action and programmes to finance smes are strengthened by our proposal. we have not forgotten in this budget, for example, palestine, or increased funding for the neighbourhood policy, with particular attention to the 'arab spring'. that is why i would like to ask the council to make an effort and to make a commitment, because i believe that we can reach an agreement for a more ambitious europe.
in writing. − given the ever increasing competences of the eu, it is only natural that its budget should reflect this. if the eu is serious about achieving the goals it has set itself under the europe 2020 strategy, notably for sustainable development, as well as meeting the new demands that will be posed by the accession of croatia, it requires a budget to ensure this is possible. the council's position of limiting the increase to the inflation rate would clearly fail to ensure this. the budget proposals adopted by the ep today strike a good balance to this end for the most part, including greater support for green technologies and for greening the cap, but the greens abstained in today’s vote because the proposals set out the wrong direction in a number of key areas. the disproportionate amount of funding that continues to be allocated to nuclear power, in spite of the clear need to finally shift away from nuclear in the aftermath of fukushima, is wrongheaded. the greens are also opposed to funding cuts in development aid.
in writing. - my vote in favour is due to parliament's commitment to an ambitious budget that will enable the objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy to be met. the result of today's vote lays the basis for negotiations with the council. we have once again shown our conviction that we need to increase investment in strategic sectors if europe is to emerge stronger from the crisis. successfully achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy requires key investments in areas such as innovation or research, which can bring high added value to the european economy. if the austerity climate affects these areas, the exit from the crisis will be slow and counterproductive. we must finance the europe 2020 strategy to boost growth and jobs in europe. the socialists therefore call on the member states to make an effort to reach an ambitious agreement. the european budget is a support instrument for all countries and should increase investment in public policies that ensure growth and social cohesion. without an ambitious budget, europe will not be able to meet its responsibilities and its credibility will continue to decline among the general public.
in writing. we, the greens, abstained. the green group has proposed that parliament should take account of green criteria in the field of research and technology and in the common agricultural policy, which is equivalent to 'greening' the cap. we also welcome the fact that parliament has adopted an amendment by the greens on the control of lobbying influence. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the european parliament.
in writing. − in favour: the european parliament, – having regard to the draft council decision (11114/2011), – having regard to the cooperation agreement on satellite navigation between the european union and its member states and the kingdom of norway (06647/2010), – having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with articles 171 and 172 and point (a) of the second subparagraph of article 218(6), and article 218(8) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0184/2011), – having regard to rules 81, 90(7) and 46(1) of its rules of procedure, – having regard to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0316/2011), 1. consents to the conclusion of the agreement; 2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of the kingdom of norway.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament, having regard to the draft council decision (11117/2011), having regard to the draft agreement on the promotion, provision and use of galileo and gps satellite-based navigation systems and related applications between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the united states of america, of the other part (11575/2011), having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with articles 171 and 172 and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a) and article 218(8), of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (c7-0185/2011), having regard to rules 81, 90(7) and 46(1) of its rules of procedure, having regard to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0332/2011),1. consents to the conclusion of the agreement;2. instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and of the united states of america.
in writing. − in favour. under current eu legislation, multinationals can play the different national tax systems against each other to effectively avoid their tax responsibility. double non-taxation is one of the various loopholes which deprive national exchequers of legitimate revenue and urgently need toughening up. today’s vote to strengthen the parent-subsidiary directive would be an important step forward in tackling this problem. crucially, meps have called for the introduction of a minimum effective tax rate on profits under the parent-subsidiary directive. eu member states and eu taxation commissioner šemeta must now take this seriously. this means coming up with a revised legislative proposal that will properly prevent the shunting of profits around europe by parent companies to avoid being corporate tax at the legitimate level. the council should abstain from adopting the re-casted directive, which serves as the legal basis for large scale tax avoidance schemes in the eu. in times of public austerity, the eu cannot afford to be soft on tax avoidance.
in writing. − it was finally agreed to refer this report back to committee.
in writing. − in favour. the economic, financial and social crisis now affecting europe has pointed up the weaknesses of the european economic and social model, and has invalidated certain aspects of the progress achieved earlier. since the first effects of the crisis made themselves felt on the labour markets in 2008, europe has lost 5.6 million jobs. there are currently 23 051 million unemployed in the eu, accounting for 9.5% of the active population, with grave implications for growth and welfare in europe. equally disturbing are the difficulties encountered by some employers in recruiting staff, especially for highly skilled posts. even during the crisis, certain employers were finding it hard to find people with suitable skills for the vacancies to be filled. reinforcing human capital and employability by means of updating skills will mean placing europe on the path of recovery.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the establishment of a common eu resettlement programme, by rui tavares, on behalf of the green group/european free alliance, by nadja hirsch, renate weber, alexander alvaro, sonia alfano, norica nicolai, sarah ludford, jens rohde, louis michel and nathalie griesbeck, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, by antonio masip hidalgo, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament, by georgios pikolaapanou, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and by kyriacos triphyllides, on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left (o238/2011 - b6-036/2011).
the author. - mr president, the governments of the member states do not want to give a joint response to a situation of war and profound social and political change on our borders. contrary to my report on the reception conditions for asylum seekers, they persist in systematically imprisoning asylum seekers, precisely those who flee their countries in defence of freedom: our freedom and theirs, which are inseparable. the detention of asylum seekers is both expensive and unfair, it prevents these people from recovering from the traumas they have experienced, it criminalizes those who have suffered crimes against humanity, it wastes everyone's resources. let us instead use measures alternative to detention. in an increasingly bipolar world, and with our ailing economy, europe is doomed to indifference and failure. let's reactivate our values. i support the questions raised here by my colleague and great friend, mr rui tavares.
it was not a question of order, but it is a clarification that mr tavares asks for. mr president-in-office of the council, you may take note of this and answer it in your speech at the end of the debate. you know that it is not often that the commission is present at questions to the council, and even less often that it intervenes - a question which i have often missed - but in this case we are pleased that commissioner malmström, our friend and former colleague, has expressed her interest in taking the floor and speaking on such an important subject.
mr president, it is regrettable that because of a matter of institutional disagreement the european union is going to abandon thousands of refugees to their fate, and i point the finger at the council. the debate on the legislative procedure for choosing the priority regions of interest has reached absurd limits, violating the principle of solidarity on which the union and the european refugee fund are based. the important thing is not whether we should use a partial codecision procedure, as proposed by the council, or whether we should use the ordinary legislative procedure, as proposed by this house. the real issue is to provide aid to those who need it most and to select priority regions quickly so that the aim of aid to the persecuted and needy is achieved. if that election is considered a delegated act, let us accept the comitology procedure; if not, let us agree once and for all on the mechanism for that election. i've visited many refugee camps, the last one in july... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − mr president, some member states have been carrying out resettlement for quite a few years. that is excellent and we hope that they will continue to do that. the point of a joint european resettlement programme is of course to pool those resources so that we can make a real difference: for instance, empty a refugee camp or make a real effort to alleviate a very difficult situation in our neighbourhood or elsewhere. the current events in our neighbourhood have shown the importance of this, but i am sure that in the future there will unfortunately also be a need for this. we can do more in the european union. as someone mentioned, the us and canada are doing a lot more and we should do more to take up this challenge. hopefully member states will join. if they see that there is a regional resettlement programme that really works, more member states will join in and it will have even more effect. the problem is of course political will. if there is no political will we can have the best system and programme in the world but that will not help. but hopefully that political will will also exist. there are already possibilities today to support resettlement. we have funding from the european commission and within the regional protection programme there is also a possibility to assist the most vulnerable. we should do everything we can to have this programme in place so that in the future we are better prepared with a more flexible but still a rapid programme that could efficiently enter into force when there is a need. again, the commission will do its utmost to try to find, in the different compromises that are now circulating, something that all the stakeholders could really find an agreement on and that can be put in place as soon as possible. thank you very much for your commitment on this and let us hope that we will very soon have this programme in place.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to thank you for all your comments and comments and first of all to say that the council recognises the importance of the smooth functioning of the eu's common resettlement programme, which will increase the effectiveness of the union's action, strengthen the protection of refugees and enable political and practical cooperation between member states and between member states and third countries. in answer to the question that has been asked, i would like to say in general terms that none of the proposals that have been put forward so far has been accepted by the council. but i want to assure you that if a new proposal, a new opportunity, arises, we are fully prepared to consider it, to proceed with it. in the end, we expect that the forthcoming commission proposal to establish an asylum and migration fund for 2014-2020 will allow parliament and the council to comprehensively improve cooperation in this area, taking into account past experience and the undoubtedly growing needs arising from the situation in specific regions.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on:- oral question to the council on the threat to public health from antimicrobial resistance, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000214/2011 - b7-0633/2011), and- oral question to the commission on the threat to public health from antimicrobial resistance, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000215/2011 - b7-0634/2011). i would like to point out to the administration that the wording of this question in spanish, which is how i read it, is how i read it: 'public health threat from antimicrobial resistance', and not as it appears in the texts distributed, because it is not the threat from antimicrobial resistance to public health, but the public health threat from antimicrobial resistance.
madam president, i fully support the proposal for a directive, which is a great step forward. and mrs angelilli's commitment to the cause of child protection is one of the noblest purposes a member of parliament can undertake. children are vulnerable, weak; that is why they deserve the highest protection. sexual abuse against them must be prevented by new legislative measures and punished harshly in the penal codes. the so-called sex tourism and child pornography are forms of exploitation which must be the priority subject of legal repression, including international agreements in this regard. i believe that all free trade agreements with third countries and development aid should include a child protection clause. we must also express our deep concern at the indoctrination of children in certain structurally poor countries, where many children born of polygamy are sent to schools with a religious appearance to avoid poverty and hunger. child murderers, child warriors and child camels are one of the most abominable forms of exploitation, a phenomenon that has spread over two continents and has irreversible social repercussions. programmes to rehabilitate child victims of forced prostitution should be a political and social priority of the union. the 11600 line must have the unwavering commitment and support of all member states. i appreciate, madam president, and i applaud the council's commitment and commitment, but i particularly applaud the commitment of mrs malmström and mrs angelilli.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. first of all, i would like to thank parliament very briefly for the constructive cooperation in reaching a compromise on the correlation tables, which also led to the adoption of the agreed text of the qualification directive. this is the first legal act of the second stage of the creation of a common european asylum system and we believe that its adoption is of great importance for building a good atmosphere in the further work on the asylum package. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the directive, mrs jean lambert, very warmly for the enormous amount of hard work she has put into this document. in conclusion, i would like to declare that the polish presidency will do everything possible to negotiate the remaining acts of the asylum package. we want to take these documents as far as possible and make it easier for the partners in the trio to work together so that we can achieve our common goal of completing the asylum system by the end of 2012.
member of the commission. − mr president, may i begin by thanking the house and, particularly, ms lambert. i know you have done a huge job, together with your group, in the informal asylum package working group to achieve this. thank you for your commitment and your relentless efforts to bring this file to a conclusion. the qualification directive is, of course, a key component of the asylum system. it represents a major step towards achieving higher standards of protection and a more level playing field, and it also provides greater efficiency and coherence. by voting for this tomorrow, this house will send a very strong signal that the european parliament is committed to moving forward and achieving a good result for the whole asylum package. i am going to luxembourg tonight, together with the polish presidency, and will be able to convey that message to the council of ministers of the interior tomorrow. the compromise on the table is balanced, and i think it meets many of our concerns. we welcome, in particular, the criteria for qualification, notably the notions of ‘actors of protection’ and ‘internal protection’. the compromise also addresses the common objective of ensuring the strengthening of gender-related provisions. it fully respects european case law and addresses adequately the issues of potential misuse and adequate standards of protection. the commission would have liked to go further as regards the definition of family members, but we regard this as a step forward. the definition extends to parents or other adults responsible for unmarried minors who are beneficiaries of protection. we also welcome the strengthening of the obligation to take into account the best interests of the child, as well as the progress achieved on the approximation of the rights granted to refugees, and to beneficiaries of subsidiary protection, in respect of access to employment and to healthcare. it will ensure a higher level of legal certainty for beneficiaries of subsidiary protection, and will facilitate their integration into society. as regards social welfare and residence permits, i regret that the compromise retains the possibility of differentiating between refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection. we share that regret. nevertheless, the deal on residence permits is a step forward because it will be possible to renew it for longer periods, if protection is still needed, than under the present rules. the approximation of rights granted to beneficiaries of protection contributes to the streamlining of administrative procedures and will lead to a reduction in costs and the administrative burden of managing different protection strategies. this is clear from the positive experience of the member states which already operate in this way. a final agreement on the qualification directive would be a very positive sign symbolically, politically and legally. as you said, ms lambert, in a few weeks’ time it will be the 60th anniversary of the relevant geneva convention. it is a positive sign that we are committed to achieving the common european asylum system by 2012; i know that this is also the goal of the polish presidency and the incoming troika. i hope that the achievement, and the vote tomorrow, will provide new momentum for the negotiations on the rest of the package. it will not be easy, but we are moving slowly but steadily forward. you can, as always, count on the commission to do our utmost to facilitate and be helpful in this very important work, which is possibly the most important package of this legislative term for all of us in this field.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i congratulate mrs lambert and the other rapporteurs on the impetus given to this report, without which it would not have been possible to reach an agreement with the council. the definition of who should be considered as members of a family was an essential element for my group. an appropriate definition in this sense will prevent the misuse of the community system of international protection. the distinction between beneficiaries of asylum and subsidiary protection is essential in defining the rights of both. subsidiary protection is more limited in time than asylum, giving rise to a shorter right of residence in the first case (one year) and a longer right of residence in the second (three years), but reversible in both cases if the threat to the beneficiaries persists. the attempt to eliminate the distinction between the two protective figures was originally rejected by my group and the council, which is why we must now welcome the agreement reached with the rapporteur. the need to recognise the rights which legitimately belong to persecuted persons is compatible with measures to prevent fraudulent use of the european system of international protection. we should also welcome the fact that the report expresses the need for member states and their authorities to safeguard the best interests of minors and to extend protection to unaccompanied minors, paying particular attention to their safety, well-being and development, as well as to the principle of family unity. finally, mr president, the introduction of references to the prosecution of those customs or traditions which have as their object female genital mutilation, forced abortion or forced sterilization is a remarkable success and a remarkable success.
mr president, my admiration jean lambert is concluding a complex parliamentary report, her second in the year of the 'asylum package', which sets out the way forward for a common european asylum system. this report, apart from its own issues, touches on matters common to other reports, such as my own on reception conditions. access to employment, which is recognised immediately after international protection is granted, is essential if asylum seekers are to be self-sufficient and not dependent on the host state's coffers. in this time of economic crisis, humanity must and can be reconciled with the economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are learning a great deal from this crisis, but there is one lesson which i think is particularly important, and that is this: in the future it will be necessary to amend the treaties in order to reform the decision-making and agreement-making procedures within the european institutions. the present evil system is slow, desperate and capricious. these vices lead to inaction and sometimes to paralysis, and from paralysis one easily reaches economic ruin. i will repeat it as many times as i can from this modest seat: a federal state can work well or badly, a confederation never works.
mr president, the fact that there was white smoke this morning is good news, but it is good news that i would like to emphasize. the restructuring of greek debt is also good news, but we would do well to admit that we were wrong, because under the initial conditions greece would never have been able to pay. if we had acted sooner, the suffering of the greek people and the cost of the bailout would have been less. recapitalization of banks: i have to study this in depth, but i do not understand well that the valuation criteria for sovereign debt have been changed, but the valuation of toxic assets has not been altered, and i do not understand well that a 'coffee for all' rule has been set in the capital limit, setting similar recapitalisation limits for financial institutions that are not. the spanish government will have to explain the transfers it has made, but that will be done at home. the commission does have to explain here why we are facing a banking crisis without having referred the proposal for a directive on crisis resolution mechanisms, as it undertook to do when we talk about financial supervision. another storm, and the rescue boats aren't ready. and finally, it's good news to increase the fire supply of the bailout fund. it is a pity that we have to turn to the outside because we are unable to fix the problems we have inside, and we will only do so if we have a comprehensive plan that addresses at the same time macroeconomic discipline, debt sustainability and, above all, growth. it is time for the commission to draw up a comprehensive plan and for us to get on with it now. if the treaties have to be amended, let us do so, but let us do it in stages, starting now.
in writing. − in favour. on 10 may 2011, the european ombudsman presented his annual report 2010 to jerzy buzek, the president of the european parliament. on 23 may 2011 he presented his report at the meeting of parliament’s committee on petitions, which is the committee responsible for relations with his institution. mr nikiforos diamandouros, the european ombudsman, was re-elected by the european parliament in its plenary strasbourg session on 20 january 2010 and he took the solemn oath of office before the court of justice of the european union in luxembourg on 25 october 2010. the legal basis for the european ombudsman’s mandate is article 228 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and he is empowered to receive complaints concerning instances of maladministration in the activities of european union institutions(1). the right to complain to the european ombudsman is provided for in article 24 tfeu and in article 43 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the ombudsman’s mandate was broadened to include possible maladministration in the framework of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), including the common security and defence policy (csdp).
in writing. − in favour. this directive should be fully complementary with directive 2011/36/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 5 april 2011 on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings, and protecting victims, and replacing framework decision 2002/629/jha(9), as some victims of human trafficking have also been child victims of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation. child pornography frequently includes images recording the sexual abuse of children by adults. it may also include images of children involved in sexually explicit conduct, or of their sexual organs, where such images are produced or used for primarily sexual purposes and exploited with or without the child’s knowledge. furthermore, the concept of child pornography also covers realistic images of a child, where a child is engaged or depicted as being engaged in sexually explicit conduct, for primarily sexual purposes. in adopting legislation on substantive criminal law, the union should ensure consistency of this overall legislation in particular with regard to the level of penalties.
in writing. − in favour. the proposal from the commission for the recasting of the original directive 2004/83/ec forms part of the move towards a common european asylum policy by 2012. in the case of the original directive, the european parliament was only consulted. now, following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the parliament is in a position of co-decision. the proposal now being put to plenary is the result of six informal trilogues, hopefully resulting in a first reading agreement. the existing directive has two key elements: the grounds on which someone qualifies for refugee status or subsidiary protection and the content of that protection in terms of residence, employment and social rights within the member state responsible for protection. the commission brought forward the recasting proposal (directive com(2009) 551 final 2) as a result of the required review of the earlier directive and developing jurisprudence. it is clear that there are considerable variations in practice between member states in their implementation of the current directive. this leads to wide variation in recognition rates overall and risks the continuation of secondary movements of applicants.
in writing. − in favour. although we lost (motion was not adopted) we felt the following was necessary: 1. takes the view that there is legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement complies with eu data protection legislation and thus as to whether it is compatible with the treaties in this respect; questions, further, the choice of legal basis, i.e. articles 82(1)(d) and 87(2)(a) tfeu (police and judicial cooperation), and not article 16 tfeu (data protection); and thus, 2. decides to seek an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties.
in writing. − against. according to us, the greens/efa, the australian privacy act, on which the agreement relies for subject access and independent oversight and enforcement, has serious weaknesses. because of this, the european commission has never awarded australia an adequacy rating. the australian law reform commission’s report ‘for your information: australian privacy law and practice’ recommended 295 changes to australian privacy laws and practices in 2008. while the government has proposed some changes in response, progress is extremely slow and no improvements have been made to date. furthermore, there is serious doubt about the compatibility of the new pnr agreement with the eu treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights, as can explicitly or implicitly be read in the statements by the legal services of the council and the commission, studies commissioned by the ep, edps and fra opinions, and several rulings by the european court on human rights, the european court of justice and national constitutional courts.
in writing. − in favour. the ep: 1. expresses again its solidarity with the egyptian people in this critical and difficult period of democratic transition in the country and continues to support their democratic aspirations; encourages the eu and its member states to continue to support the efforts aimed at accelerating democratic, economic and social reforms in egypt; and 2. strongly condemns the killing of protestors in egypt; expresses its sincere condolences to the families of all victims; calls on the authorities to ensure that security forces do not use disproportionate force; emphasises the right of all citizens to demonstrate freely and peacefully, under due protection from law enforcement authorities; and calls on the egyptian authorities to release the 28 arrested christians at maspero as well all others arrested.
in writing. − in favour. the ep: 1. takes the view that a deepening of relations between the eu and ukraine and the fact of offering ukraine a european perspective are of great significance and in the interests of both parties; recognises ukraine’s aspirations pursuant to article 49 of the treaty on european union, provided that all criteria, including respect for the principles of democracy, human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, are met; 2. deplores the sentencing of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko as a violation of human rights and an abuse of the judiciary for the purpose of the political suppression of ukraine’s leading opposition politician; emphasises that the law selectively applied against tymoshenko dates back to soviet times and makes provision for criminal prosecution for political decisions, while articles 364 and 365 of that law, which are currently under review by the verhovna rada, do not conform to european and un standards; 3. urges the ukrainian authorities to ensure a fair, transparent and impartial legal process should yulia tymoshenko appeal against her conviction, and in the other trials against members of the former government.
in writing. − in favour. the ep: 1. notes with concern that antimicrobial resistance is an ever increasing threat to public health in europe and worldwide, despite the actions taken at european and international level; 2. calls for a further intensification of the fight against resistance to antimicrobial agents in human medicines, focusing on, in the following order of priority: – the prudent use of antimicrobial agents both for humans and for animals, ensuring that they are only used when effectively needed for actual treatment of disease, with the correct dosage, dose intervals and duration, – the monitoring and surveillance of antimicrobial resistance, – the need for research into, and the development of, new antimicrobial agents and alternatives, – links with measures to combat resistance to antimicrobial agents in veterinary medicines, animal feeding stuffs and crop-growing.
mr president, actually we were told during the olympic games that the situation in china, and particularly in tibet, would improve after these events. the truth is that this has not happened, and the situation right now in tibet is at least the same as, if not worse than, it was before. the example we are now putting on the table – self-immolation – is the result of frustration at the lack of dialogue and the lack of willingness on the part of the chinese to improve the situation. this is why we in the international community have to speak out and remind all those who promised that the situation would improve after the olympic games that this has not happened. i was shocked when i saw the images of eight monks and one nun who self-immolated, but i also want to stress that there are still 300 monks whose whereabouts and condition are not known. so there are plenty of things that we have to ask the chinese authorities, and the only way we can do this is by using this chamber, this opportunity to show our concern about all these issues.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i also want to thank the rapporteur, mrs serracchiani, and also the shadows for the very good job they have done. this is a very technical dossier. we have been working for a year in the committee on transport dealing with nearly 800 amendments. the liberals have tried to maintain coherence in all the debates during this year. this has been difficult because the two big groups in this house are divided on some key points. the unbundling issue, which was not proposed by the commission but by the rapporteur, has held up the process for months and has monopolised the debates and the final vote of this recast. we liberals proposed to take the unbundling issue out from the recast and call the commission to come up with a legislative proposal on this issue after having an impact assessment and after full stakeholder consultation. we liberals believe that the main problem of the european single railway area is a problem of openness much more than a problem of model organisation between integrated and separated models. i am a mediterranean liberal. i am a catalan liberal. i come from a mediterranean country in which there is no real openness and no real competition on freight transport. since the first debate, the liberals have proposed the creation of a european regulatory body – not to create more bureaucracy or to intervene in countries where there is a national regulatory body that is efficient and strong in terms of budget and staff. the european regulator should intervene in countries in which the national regulator is not doing its job. we need a red telephone at european level to deal quickly with international competition problems in the railway sector. finally, the liberals will vote against article 6(4). the control by regulators over the revenues of infrastructure managers of railway undertakings is not so clear, so this clause could still be used for business and could create competition distortions. we are in favour of more transparency in this clause.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, citizens are demanding that europe provide solutions to their problems, that europe be able to achieve a sustainable economic recovery and that it contribute to the simplification and flexibility of regulations. the mobility of professionals is not only a fundamental right enshrined in the treaties, it is also a key factor for modernising the labour market and economic development. it is therefore necessary to adapt and update the system for the recognition of professional qualifications to the reality of work and to the demands and needs of professionals and consumers. the future commission proposal should include greater transparency and simplification in the rules for the recognition of professional qualifications; an evaluation of compensatory measures to solve existing problems; further clarification of the criteria on language skills to ensure the quality of services provided and to protect the safety of consumers and patients; and greater cooperation and coordination between the competent authorities and the national contact points. ladies and gentlemen, europe must put professionals and consumers at the heart of the single market. only then can we build a way out of the financial and economic crisis based on sustainable knowledge and social progress.
madam president, spain, with romania, is the only country in the eu that leaves no room for competition on airport management. in 2008, the catalan government built an airport in lleida, which does not belong to the spanish centralised network of aena. companies from russia and the uk have shown an interest in flying directly to lleida airport, which would give thousands of tourists direct access to skiing in the pyrenees this winter. however, as russia and the uk are outside the schengen zone, approval for these flights has to be given by the spanish government. the catalan government has been asking the socialist spanish government for approval of these flights since 2010, but this authorisation has not yet arrived. the commission should act immediately to stop this discrimination against the catalan airport of lleida. no airport should be discriminated against because of the identity of its managers.
mr president, there has been a lot of talk these days about the volcano on the island of el hierro in the canary islands. last friday i had the opportunity to live there, with the herrenos, an earthquake of 4.6 on the richter scale, and i can assure you that it is not a pleasant situation. but it is much more unpleasant to see the situation of thousands of citizens of this small and very european island, who see how their lives are conditioned by what is happening with the volcano and the continuous seismic movements that are taking place. with the tunnel linking their two main cities closed, unable to work, businesses shut down and a crisis of enormous proportions terribly aggravated, they have little more to wait for. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the european union must be there where it is needed, and that place is today, more than ever, the island of el hierro.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank parliament, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) and in particular the rapporteur, mr triantaphyllides, and the previous rapporteur, eva britt svensson for the ‘report on a new strategy for consumer policy’. i realise that a report is, in essence, a series of compromises and might not address, or not address fully, all the issues some of you consider most important. that said, i must say that the final outcome of your work provides excellent input into the commission’s work on consumer policy. it contains very substantial elements for the promotion of the interests of european consumers. in particular, i very much welcome the comprehensive approach to consumer policy embodied in the report. indeed, a successful modern consumer policy cannot be only about legislation, but has to be multi-faceted. in this context, the report rightly puts the emphasis on consumer safety, both for products and food. it stresses the importance of empowering consumers, of consumer education and information. it rightly emphasises the need for eu consumer policy to support growth and innovation in the retail sector and in particular the completion of the digital single market. it cites reviewing the existing consumer legislation, notably in relation to unfair commercial practices and misleading advertising, and redress – including alternative dispute resolution and on-line dispute resolution – among the priorities. it insists on the need to ensure effective implementation and enforcement of existing legislation. it highlights some cross-cutting issues such as sustainable consumption, vulnerable consumers and accessibility. from a sectoral point of view, it rightly puts the stress on financial services, energy and digital. together with previous parliament reports dealing with consumer issues – such as the grech, hedh, arias and schaldemose reports, as well as the forthcoming work on vulnerable consumers – this report offers the commission an extremely valuable source of inspiration for its work on the future consumer policy. let me say a few words about the commission’s intentions in this respect. vice-president reding and i envisage presenting a consumer agenda in the first half of next year. this consumer agenda will present a coherent, strategic vision for consumer policy in the years to come, together with milestones set between 2012 and the end of the current commission’s mandate. we envisage an ambitious text, focusing on concrete measures, putting consumers at the centre of the single market, something you have stressed in your report. the key principle will be to empower consumers, in the broadest sense of the term. empowerment is about how consumers can participate actively in the market and make it work for them. we will include consumer issues under vice-president reding’s portfolio and my own, but also measures falling under other commissioners’ responsibility, such as financial services, energy, transport and digital. this will meet a key concern mentioned in your report, namely the need for a coherent, holistic approach to consumer policy. the consumer agenda will also need to take into account the emerging challenges facing future consumer policy: the need to move towards more sustainable patterns of consumption; to address the specific needs of an ageing population; digitalisation (including e-commerce); and the issue of social inclusion and vulnerable consumers. again, this is fully in line with your report. the european consumer agenda will also have the explicit ambition to build on the progress already made in realising a european judicial area, thus enhancing the role that judges, legal practitioners and enforcement authorities can play, including across borders. to this end, the consumer agenda shall be built on partnerships, both in order to pull resources together, in line with the principle of ‘doing more with less’, and bringing on board all relevant actors. this includes partnerships with member states on enforcement and information, with intermediaries (consumer organisations and the media), with business on consumer information, and at international level on product safety. we have already collected contributions from the advisory networks that we manage which bring together consumer organisations and national authorities. we now plan to organise a hearing at the beginning of 2012, possibly with the help of the imco committee. discussions are ongoing as regards its organisation. as a first step, we are preparing, in response to an earlier request from parliament, a report on the integration of consumer interests into all aspects of consumer policy. this should be ready in early 2012. finally, i would add that last week the commission adopted a proposal for the 2014-2020 consumer programme – the financial framework that will underpin the consumer agenda from 2014 onwards. this is now for discussion between the budgetary authorities. the proposed consumer programme focuses on four key areas of action, covering the whole spectrum of consumer policy. i am particularly pleased to note that its four specific objectives are very much in tune with the recommendations of your report: consumer safety (products, food and services); providing consumers with the right information and the educational tools to properly understand it; consolidating and further strengthening consumer rights and redress, and, last but not least, enforcement of consumer rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a very sensitive subject. on the one hand, we must take into account the cultural traditions and the important sustainable contribution of play to society in some states, such as mine, through education, culture and sport. and on the other hand, we must fight gambling-related crime and protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable, to avoid excessive or pathological gambling. i therefore believe that the principle of active subsidiarity based on cooperation between national administrations should prevail in this area. however, we must be ambitious and focus on the development of common rules and coordinated joint action against illegal online gambling operators operating without the necessary national licences. we must also ensure transparency and allow for non-discriminatory competition in the public interest and consumer protection. finally, we must encourage the formation of a network of national organizations dealing with gambling addicts to enable an exchange of experience and best practice.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, poverty is the source of the great inequalities on our planet. it is not possible to understand the 21st century with a system that continues to exacerbate the differences between people based on place of birth, gender or expectations of development of their country. it is essential to create a new social, labour and economic framework which guarantees the basic needs of our people. some 80 million people live below the poverty line, more than half of them women and 20 million children. the platform covered by this report can contribute to achieving greater social justice in europe. it is urgent to give priority to education and youth policies as a key building block for a fairer and more equitable society; to review the precarious employment contracts that have proliferated in many member states and which exacerbate the segmentation of work and undermine the protection of the weakest groups; to recognise the rights of women in rural areas, where their contribution to work is not valued and they are excluded from the basic rights of any employee; and to improve national home care programmes for older people. the austerity measures so necessary at this time of crisis must not be incompatible with the maintenance of basic social services. 116 million people are at risk of poverty in the european union and 42 million live in conditions of severe material deprivation. we must ensure their social protection and foster a more prosperous scenario that will help to reduce these figures. finally, i should like to express my satisfaction at the council's decision, after several months of stalled negotiations, to release food aid to the poorest. it is essential that the financial support for the new financing cycle 2014-2020 be maintained with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, on behalf of the socialist members, i would like to congratulate commissioner andor on his communication and his project on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. and i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr daerden, because he has produced a comprehensive report which i hope will be read and, above all, applied by the community institutions and the member states. we agree with mr. daerden in the diagnosis, prognosis and therapy of this serious problem. in the diagnosis, because it's obvious we have a serious problem. not just the millions of people affected by poverty or at risk of poverty in europe. we as europeans and our european project are also threatened by this reality. because if the dignity of a policy or a country or a region is measured by the dignity with which we treat the weakest, then it is clear that we have a serious problem in europe, and it is clear that our european union project has some unfinished business ahead of it. we are facing a problem which is not a natural disaster, nor is it something that cannot be avoided; we are facing something which is not a biblical curse; we are facing a problem which is caused by bad policies, and not by the responsibility, as is sometimes said, of those who are the victims of the problem. bad social policies, which prevent the effects from being resolved, and, above all, bad policies of those that prevent the causes of poverty from being addressed. bad economic policies, stupid economic policies that destroy jobs, economic activity, wealth creation, quality employment. the prognosis is also quite bad: we are not addressing the crisis well, which is generating more poverty because we have been three years with the wrong policies. in therapy, follow the recommendations of mr. daerden. there are important programmes in education, in culture, in social services, in employment. but above all, commissioner, please add article 9 of the treaty on european union! let there be a social impact study of all the policies of the european union to see and measure their impact on the fight against poverty!
madam president, crisis situations produce more poverty without social cohesion. we've all become poorer. we spaniards have reduced our average income by 4.4%, but today i would like to point out that within the countries, within the communities, we are becoming poorer because of poor political management. the valencians in spain may be three points behind in their ability to cope with our crisis situation. unemployment is higher and, in addition, there are public aids which are under suspicion before the courts, before the court of auditors. there are foundations with a partisan sense that receive more contributions than very important public foundations, such as the vicente ferrer foundation. the rapporteur has therefore called for transparency. this is an important element: resolving the crisis now, but resolving the crisis with cohesion to avoid poverty.
mr president, commissioner cioloş, i am glad you are here this morning and i hope that you will answer me a little more seriously and a little more clearly today. in the proposal for reform of the common agricultural policy which you presented to us on 12 october, you speak of the abolition of the sugar quota system, and you also speak of the abolition of the right to plant vineyards. the european parliament, in mr dess' report, which we voted on recently in this house, is in favour of continuing with planting rights from 2015 and not liberalizing vine planting rights, and is also in favour of maintaining the sugar quota system until at least 2020. will you follow and support parliament's position and parliament's decision on these two issues?
member of the commission. - mrs herranz garcía, i will answer both of your questions. the abolition of the sugar quota is the subject of legislative proposals which are already on the table in the council and parliament. the council and parliament will therefore be able to express their views on the commission's position in a codecision procedure. the question of planting rights for vineyards was already decided by the council during the reform of the wine sector. this is also the subject of a council regulation, which has already decided to abolish planting rights. nevertheless, the commission will present a report next year on the state of implementation of the reform of the wine sector. it will be submitted to parliament and the council. again, parliament and the council will be able to comment on this if they wish to make adjustments. in any case, i am open to having this question discussed.
if i understand you correctly, commissioner, given that there are now 15 member states in the council who think differently - as they did before - and given that parliament is still betting on vine planting rights, can we be relatively optimistic about the commission's proposal in next year's wine report?
member of the commission. - first of all, we attach great importance to crossborder cooperation. it has proved to be very useful, fruitful and forward-looking. more and more regions are in need of transregional and crossborder cooperation. that is why we have proposed in our budgetary estimate an increase of about 30% in this area. i know that this is also the view of parliament. i hope the member states will see it the same way. in the past this was not always the case, but in the meantime we have many successful projects which ultimately benefit the individual member states. the danube strategy like all macro-regional strategies is characterised by the fact that existing regional programmes or national structural programmes are to be used appropriately for projects to be implemented in the framework of a macro-regional strategy i.e. in the danube area . so it was good that we started these strategies in the current period. it will be up to the individual responsible in the member states to ensure that in future certain parts of the respective programmes are dedicated to projects which can be implemented under the danube strategy, so that at the end of the planning we have a clear picture of how much the individual member states are actually prepared to spend on such macro-regional strategies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
commissioner cioloş, there is a great difficulty in some geographical areas, such as the valencian community in spain, to apply the cap because of its specific agricultural structure, consisting of 95% citrus, mini-farms and monoculture. almost everyone, in addition to working in his field - on his own farm - has another type of work to supplement his salary. what cohesion policy will you implement to integrate these small farmers?
member of the commission. - farms which we call part-time, i.e. where the farmer has an agricultural activity in addition to another activity, are quite eligible for direct support under the common agricultural policy. that is why, in our definition of the active farmer, we exclude first of all farmers who have direct support of less than eur 5 000 per year, precisely so as not to target small farms. but in the definition proposed in the draft regulation, member states will have the possibility to take into account farmers who have a low agricultural income but also have a non-agricultural income. they're double-targeted. the smaller, more reactive farms - because we have set this level at eur 5 000 - that is to say precisely those with more than eur 5 000 will be affected by a reduction in financial support and by the way we have defined active farming which fully includes the more reactive farmers.
i am grateful for the explanation, mr commissioner, but at the moment the number of subsidies received by valencian farmers is almost nil. valencian farmers do not live on subsidies. we hope that the recognition of this aid to small farmers, which you have just defined and which the member states will give, will give us clarity on the present situation.
in writing. − in favour. on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on coordination of safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and others, are required by member states of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of article 54 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in respect of the formation of public limited liability companies and the maintenance and alteration of their capital, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent (recast) com(2011)0029 – c7-0037/2011 – 2011/0011(cod)) (ordinary legislative procedure – recast) the european parliament, a. whereas, according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question does not include any substantive amendments other than those identified as such in the proposal and whereas, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the earlier acts together with those amendments, the proposal contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance, 1. adopts its position at first reading hereinafter set out, taking into account the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission;
in writing. − in favour. the accession to the athens convention relating to the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea is a longstanding issue followed up by the eu and by the parliament, in particular. the convention itself dates back to 1974 with the safety of passenger ships and passenger rights lying at its heart. it was, however, considered that the convention insufficiently regulated a number of substantive issues including the nature and extent of the carriers’ liability and minimum requirements on insurance. under the aegis of the international maritime organisation (imo), the protocol, which was adopted on 1 november 2002, amended the athens convention in a way that satisfied key elements such as liability in case of fault or neglect by the carrier, compulsory insurance and the right to make claims directly against the insurer. the compensation of terrorism related damages is addressed by imo guidelines and a reservation to the protocol. considering that most of the desirable elements were then covered by the protocol, the commission proposed in 2003 that the european community become a contracting party to the protocol of 2002 and that the member states should do likewise. negotiations within the council on the conclusion were suspended however, and were only resumed in december 2007.
in writing. − in favour. the 2002 protocol to the athens convention relating to the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea of 1974 aims at addressing certain shortcomings in the regulation of the liability of carriers at international level. under annex vii to the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs is responsible for, inter alia, the interpretation and application of union law and compliance of union acts with primary law, notably the choice of legal bases, the interpretation and application of international law, in so far as the union is affected, and measures concerning judicial and administrative cooperation in civil matters. since articles 10 and 11 of the athens protocol concern questions relating to jurisdiction and recognition and enforcement of judgments, the relevant legal basis as far as those articles are concerned is article 81(1) tfeu on judicial cooperation in civil matters. the committee on legal affairs is thus the committee responsible for this aspect of accession to the protocol.
in writing. − in favour. air services between the european union and jordan presently operate on the basis of bilateral agreements between individual member states and jordan. these bilateral agreements were brought into line with eu law by the conclusion of a horizontal aviation agreement with jordan in 2008. the commission recently negotiated a comprehensive agreement that is much more ambitious in its scope and replaces all the bilateral agreements by creating a euro-mediterranean aviation area between the eu and jordan. the agreement establishes uniform standards for air carriers in all 27 member states and allows them to benefit regardless of their national affiliation. accordingly, eu-based air carriers will be able to operate services between any location in the eu and jordan, something that was until now conditional upon, among other things, the existence of a bilateral agreement between the member state concerned and jordan. the agreement’s objectives are gradual market opening in terms of access to routes and capacity on a reciprocal basis; non-discrimination and a level playing field for economic operators, based on the principles laid down in the eu treaties; and alignment of jordan aviation legislation with eu legislation on issues such as safety, security and air traffic management.
in writing. − in favour. this is an international agreement establishing relations in the field of aviation between the eu and its 27 member states and georgia. its purpose is the establishment of an eu/georgia common aviation area. the existing bilateral agreements on air traffic services between the two sides will be superseded by the new agreement. the agreement is being concluded as part of the eu neighbourhood policy, one of the aims of which is to establish a common aviation area between the eu and its neighbours. the council signed the agreement on 2 december 2010. the agreement is being applied provisionally pending its entry into force.
in writing. - i have supported this report on the temporary suspension of common customs tariff duties on imports of certain industrial products from the canary islands in order to boost the competitiveness of local economic operators and stabilise employment in these outermost regions of the union.
in writing. − in favour. in its explanatory memorandum the european commission informs the council and parliament that the kingdom of spain has requested, on behalf of the authorities of the autonomous community of the canary islands, the temporary suspension of the common customs tariff duties on certain industrial products into the canary islands so as to strengthen the competitive position of the local economic operators and stabilise employment in these outermost regions of the union. in order to ensure that the goods imported – be they raw materials, parts, components or duty-free capital goods – do not distort competition, they will be subject to end-use controls ensuring their use by local companies on the islands. capital goods will have to be used by local companies on the islands for a period of at least two years before they can be sold freely to companies situated in other parts of the union. moreover, raw materials, parts and components will have to be used for industrial transformation and maintenance in the canary islands in order to benefit from the duty suspension.
in writing. − in favour. on 23 march 2011, the legal affairs committee held a workshop on ‘harmonisation of insolvency proceedings at eu level’. the aim was to identify areas in national insolvency laws that are accessible and eligible for harmonisation. in preparation of the hearing, the legal affairs committee commissioned a study on ‘harmonisation of insolvency law at eu level’. the recommendations of this report take into account the ideas that experts elaborated in the aforementioned study and during the hearing and that were further explained in the accompanying documentation.
in writing. − against. the report is contradictory in itself, weakens existing ep positions on gender equality and mainstreaming, and includes at least one conservative paragraph (para 25: extended families as solution for child care) which we do not support.
in writing. − in favour. as green mep and ep draftsman for the legislation pascal canfin said: ‘the legislation adopted by the ep today, notably the decision to ban naked credit default swaps, is a major step forward in tackling sovereign debt speculation, which continues to wreak havoc across the eurozone. the european parliament pushed to ensure a ban on naked cds was included from the outset, and its inclusion is a victory for the ep and our efforts to curb the excesses of the financial system. these new rules will prohibit market actors from purchasing cds of sovereign debt without holding actual bonds of the countries involved as a general rule. this will prevent cynical traders from speculating on the bankruptcy of a country.’
in writing. - the adoption by parliament of the regulation on short selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps (cds) is an important step in financial reform. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr canfin, and the shadow rapporteurs on the content of the agreement with the council. the regulation introduces transparency into short positions on shares, bonds and cdss. it strengthens the powers of the european securities and markets authority (esma) for coordinated action to curb speculation. the imposition of restrictions on short selling of shares and bonds over a short period is necessary to ensure their proper execution. the lifting of the ceilings for bonds if they are intended for long-term cover or to promote liquidity in the member states is appropriate. the ban on short-term operations with cds on uncovered sovereign debt will prevent a few reckless speculators from making fortunes at the expense of the citizens. the possibility for member states to temporarily repeal this rule, in order to avoid it being able to harm them when the market is not functioning properly and under the scrutiny of esma, is reasonable.
in writing. − in favour. the report welcomes the commission proposal, the aim of which is to update the legal framework for european statistics on permanent crops in line with current user and market requirements, and stresses the objective of achieving simplification and recognises the efforts made by the commission to reduce the administrative burden on respondents and ensure that statistical data on permanent crops provide a reliable basis for taking judicious decisions in relation to production and the european market.
in writing. − against. the greens/efa requested that any decision on nuclear research should: enhance democratic control and parliament’s role concerning nuclear material by introducing the lisbon treaty as the legal basis; limit the euratom nuclear research programmes to the activities linked to radioprotection (people and the environment), decommissioning of nuclear installations, safeguards and non-proliferation – this could free up to eur 2 400 million or more from the eu budget in the next two years; and exclude eu public money from research into fusion, in particular the white elephant iter, and into the development of new types of fission reactors. as regards nuclear waste, the ‘polluter pays’ principle should apply. none of the above requests were carried by itre.
in writing. − in favour. the ep: 1. believes that the free movement of a growing number of highly skilled persons and of workers is one of the key benefits of european cooperation and of a competitive internal market, an important factor in the development of economies across the eu and a right enjoyed by every eu citizen; firmly believes that workers’ mobility should be enhanced for citizens of the eu and that indirect barriers should be eliminated, provided that a balance is struck between mobility and the quality of professional qualifications; 2. encourages all initiatives that aim to facilitate cross-border mobility as a means to the efficient functioning of labour markets and a way of enhancing economic growth and competitiveness within the eu; recognises the need for modernisation of directive 2005/36/ec in order to guarantee a clear, robust legal framework; 3. calls on the commission and the member states to further encourage mobility among professionals; argues that the relatively low numbers of mobile professionals is a cause for concern and suggests that strategies be devised to tackle this problem; underlines the result of the recent eurobarometer survey according to which more than 50 % of young people in europe are willing or keen to work abroad;
in writing. − in favour. i would like to start by thanking mrs eva britta svensson (former mep) who regrettably resigned from parliament for health reasons during the preparation phase of the draft report for her excellent input. the commission is set to publish a consumers agenda by may 2012 as the follow-up to the 2007-2013 eu consumer policy strategy (com(2007)0099 final). it will be published as a commission communication and will include all initiatives for consumers from 2012 and beyond, but will go further than the scope of the 2007-2013 eu consumer policy strategy. we welcome this ambitious approach and urge the commission to also launch a green paper so there can be a real ground for discussion for consumer rights organisations, citizens, national parliaments and governments. the consumer agenda should be an umbrella for all the important topics and challenges that we have ahead of us in the consumer area. it should be a milestone in eu consumer policy and for the first time gives concrete meaning to the eu treaty principle according to which consumer interests have to be taken into account in all other relevant eu policies.
in writing. − in favour. the online gambling sector is growing constantly. nowadays, according to current figures, about 10% – a figure which is rising – of all gambling in europe takes place on the internet or via comparable distribution channels such as mobile phones or interactive television platforms, with a market volume in excess of eur 10 billion. the market for physical, location-based gambling and the online gambling sector are characterised by a wide range of products: traditional lotteries, but also sports betting, poker, bingo and totalisator betting on horse and greyhound races. by its very nature, the internet is a cross-border medium. online gambling therefore does not stop at borders. as a result of ever-increasing offerings and the increasing number of gamblers, the current market fragmentation in this area in europe is also becoming ever more obvious. in a host of member states, there are total bans or bans with the possibility of authorisation, while others have a completely open and liberalised market.
in writing. − abstention. the committee on the environment was also useful as we took up many aspects they had voted through in their opinion but the committee on agriculture had rejected in its vote. the committee on agriculture had also stripped many references and after the committee on agriculture vote there were many aspects not included in the report with sufficient rigour, such as: an objective critique of pesticide toxicity, in particular the banning of systemic neurotoxins (such as neonicotinoids and phenylpyrazoles and pyrethrinoids) on the basis of a lack of a proper risk assessment, in line with the precautionary principle; the implications to the beekeeping sector of gmo contamination of honey and beekeeping products, as well as consequent costs of testing for contaminants and loss of income for beekeepers; the interaction of agriculture and beekeeping, a critique of monocultures, and the idea that wide-scale changes are needed in agriculture, including crop rotation to reduce (the need for) pesticide use, in order to reverse the sharp decline of pollinator populations. we need sustainable agriculture everywhere, and buffer strips and wildflower/melliferous beds are not enough on their own.
in writing. − in favour. services of general interest are not only crucial to individuals but are also tremendously important to the wellbeing of society as a whole. such services are highly diverse, and national, regional and local authorities within the eu have discretion in determining what constitutes a service of general interest, i.e. which services ought to be offered in the interests of the general public. however, all such services have this much in common: they are services regarded by the state or state authorities as particularly important to all members of the public but they cannot be provided, or cannot be provided adequately, without state intervention. the state intervenes to ensure that all members of the public have access to these services and/or that they are provided for all members of the public at an affordable price and a high level of quality. the services provided make an important contribution to economic performance and competitiveness and promote social, economic and territorial cohesion in the eu.
in writing. − in favour. although the european union is one of the richest regions of the world, there are more than 80 million people at risk of poverty, including 20 million children and 8% of the working population. this situation is incompatible with the european values of justice and solidarity enshrined in the treaties. however, poverty and social exclusion have increased in recent years despite the union’s undertakings to reduce them. the impact of the 2008 crisis has further exacerbated the problem by putting pressure on the most vulnerable groups. while the fight against poverty and social exclusion is primarily the responsibility of national governments, the union can nevertheless play an important role in terms of awareness-raising, coordination and funding.
mr president, mr barroso, you have certainly said important things, which i have no problem with: about governance, about reforms, about deepening the internal market. but, mr barroso, let me say that i am puzzled by your speech. it is certainly not the best speech of his life, especially in view of the enormity of the economic, social and political crisis europe is experiencing. and i think the speech is just one more and it's not up to the challenge. you said you wanted an alliance with parliament and public opinion. that's the thing to do. but i am very much afraid that with such an unambitious programme of work it will be difficult for you to build such an alliance, a strong alliance that is able to meet the challenges. we have adopted an important report on the fight against poverty here today. you read it, mr barroso! none of the measures in that report are in your work plan. there is no anti-discrimination directive. there is no directive on social services of general interest. there is no minimum wage directive. there is nothing in your work programme to tell us that you have ambition to build a social europe, not just for social reasons, but because you continue to believe that you will get out of the economic crisis without addressing the needs of society, without addressing the needs of our citizens. do not just talk about flexibility, mr barroso. let us talk about flexibility and worker safety, which is so necessary in these times of crisis. the workers need security, because they are having a very difficult time, and we cannot just talk about the market, about the requirements of the market, we must also talk about the requirements of the people. mr barroso, there is probably a philosophy behind this: that there is no room for a social europe in the crisis, in globalisation. more than ever, mr barroso, social europe in crisis, social europe in the face of globalisation.
mr president, mr commissioner, today's sitting has dealt with the commission's ordinary work programme for 2012, but there is a part of that work which has not yet been finalised and which is expected to occupy a large part of the commission's work: the part concerning the institutional implications of economic governance, including a possible, eventual, revision of the treaties. i would encourage the commission to continue to maintain the position it has expressed and defended here in parliament on these matters. a position which avoids the separation between the eurozone countries and the other countries; which also avoids the emergence of two groups within the eurozone countries, which move at different speeds; which also avoids the mere restriction, the mere stability policy, to include measures of growth and solidarity; and which also avoids the increase in democracy, with the involvement of parliament and with respect for the community method. but, returning to the ordinary programme, i would also like to encourage the commission to engage in an effective communication policy for the year of citizenship in 2013 and to be involved in the conclusion of the negotiations for the european union's accession to the european convention on human rights.
mr president, i also address president barroso - although he is not here at the moment - through the commissioner. i think that a reasonable programme has indeed been put forward, as has happened in other years. what i find lacking, and what concerns me, is a sense of urgency. every morning we wake up in many countries, in my country, spain, of course, with the urgency of the reforms that must be carried out: in the labour market, in budgetary stability, in the public deficit, etc. etc. and here we have a programme which, in my view, lacks that sense of urgency. and it is fundamentally lacking in what is essentially the potential of the european union's project to contribute to the development of growth and employment, which is the internal market, and the digital internal market as a variant of it. all that is still hindering the development of the internal market today - and it is still a great deal - both in the transposition of directives and the development of directives (such as, for example, the services directive), and in many other aspects that are preventing unification, integrating the extraordinary legislative fragmentation that prevents the development of this market, is urgent. and this is my main message: 'reclaim your sense of urgency because there is very little we can do from the european union'.
madam president, madam commissioner, i believe that we are facing a climate change summit, the one in durban, which has an advantage over those immediately before it: there is absolute clarity about the impossibility of reaching a binding international agreement. and this should allow the energies to be channeled into proposals, into lines of joint action, which would actually allow us to make practical progress towards the emission reduction target. it is therefore good news, because we were not like this in cancun and certainly not when the copenhagen summit took place. i believe it is time for the european union to become the regional leader in proposals such as those arising from energy efficiency, which are the ones that can really bring together the action of so many other countries, from the most developed to the richest to the least developed and the poorest. the fight against climate change, by promoting energy efficiency, has incredible potential in all areas, and i sincerely believe, commissioner and colleagues, that it is time for the european union to become the leader in the fight against climate change through energy efficiency.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the court of auditors because, once again, it gives us a perspective on the visibility of responsibility and the elements of concern in expenditure and budgetary control and, moreover, it also gives us an indication of trends, and so we can work on the most important aspects. it is true, and of course we see with absolute concern that a trend which until now was being controlled in the area of cohesion policy, which is a central policy in european policy, is now getting worse. we therefore see that the commission is looking very carefully, through a review of the data provided by the court, at the possibility of using better instruments to monitor these accounts. however, there are other very important elements which are also new in the court of auditors' 2010 report - where all the issues relating to financial engineering are mentioned - and which raise new concerns because, as they are fundamental instruments for extending and supplementing financing, especially for projects that go beyond the multiannual framework and which we certainly need to carry forward development and job creation, i would like to ask both mr caldeira and mr šemeta what they envisage for the purpose of better monitoring these instruments which, if necessary, open up new problems. and i would also like to ask about the frequency of error in r & d & i policy. clearly not material errors and below average, but there is a high frequency and above all a problem with independent auditors.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate my friend kaczmarek on his good report and his generous flexibility in accepting the amendments i tabled to his original proposal. after agreeing with much of what has been said here and with the text we shall be voting on tomorrow, i would like to express some satisfaction, some concern and some ideas about the work we have been and will continue to develop from the european parliament in the joint parliamentary assembly for africa, the caribbean, the pacific and the european union. i am pleased with the work of mr louis michel, as co-president of the assembly, and of our friends in the commission, with commissioner piebalgs at the head, for their interest, attention and participation in our work, with the simplicity, cordiality and efficiency that characterize him. i am concerned, however, that, absorbed in the rest of the work that our colleagues are doing in the european parliament, there will be a noticeable absence of our representatives in the joint assembly, whose work we are here appreciating. it seems to me that colleagues who are giving priority to other occupations should analyse the situation, either to give importance to their work in the acp-eu assembly or to leave their place to other colleagues who may have more time for this activity. i also believe that our parliament as such should pay more attention to this very task, that the political importance of the cotonou agreement should be understood, which is the most representative instance of north-south cooperation with almost eighty countries in the developing world, in addition to the twenty-seven, soon to be twenty-eight, countries that make up the european union. at a time when global governance must be articulated in a multilateral way, our acp partners represent a huge political potential for articulating joint actions on the international stage. our parliament must also pay more attention to the resolutions which our delegates adopt with their colleagues from the acp countries in the parliamentary assembly. we must not continue to adopt all kinds of resolutions there, with the european parliament's signature, without even taking note of these texts, at least in the relevant committees of our house. the relevant measures must be studied so that, in the light of what is being discussed and approved in the acp-eu assembly, the texts adopted by our parliament in the same areas are coherent and do not give rise, as can sometimes happen, to significant discrepancies which, frankly, are disconcerting to our partners.
mr president, the crisis has now reached a situation of high systemic risk, as we have seen in the last weeks and days. countries that have been looking reluctantly at others are already suffering from this risk and, if we do not break the current dynamic, it will reach everyone, including germany. in the face of this situation, immediate measures are needed rather than embarking on a difficult path of institutional reforms which, on the one hand, cannot give us a quick response; on the other hand, the implementation of which has an uncertain future; and which, finally, can lead to a result which, paradoxically, can further complicate and weaken the situation in which we find ourselves. in any case, we do not rule out such reforms, but if they are undertaken, we must bear in mind that there are at the moment within the union those who think that the union has too many powers and that they should be returned to the states, those who believe that there can only be an intergovernmental response to the problems and those who, like myself and many others, believe that greater economic integration is necessary - with discipline, but also with growth - , greater solidarity, a community response, a role for parliament consistent with being the direct depository of democratic legitimacy. so, not a turn back: a leap forward.
mr president, i think that for this exercise to be useful, we should start by telling the truth. and the truth is that we are not able to solve any of the problems that we have on the table: neither the problem of greece, nor the problem of italy. and this inability to solve the problems is affecting all the economies of the european union, is making the efforts of ireland and portugal fruitless and is infecting everyone, including belgium and france. the truth is that the punishment of sovereign debt does not come about for economic reasons, because our current account deficit fundamentals are better than those of the united states, the united kingdom or japan. and if it is not for economic reasons, it is for political reasons only. because we haven't got the right model, we don't have the institutional architecture to fix it. all the solutions that have been adopted so far - many have been mixed up - all those that have succeeded are based on a logic of restrictive budgetary policy and restrictive monetary policy, and that simply has not worked. it is probably time to look at other models, for example the anglo-saxon model, which is based on a more accommodative budgetary policy and an ultra-loose monetary policy. it is obvious that we cannot import the model into the european union as it is. no state, except probably germany, is in a position to squeeze public spending, lower taxes or go into debt. the margin of manoeuvre is very limited and fiscal discipline must be observed. but we can do it at union level, and that is your responsibility. what to do? i think, first of all, that the european central bank has to do much more than it is doing. the federal reserve has increased its budget since 2007 by 226%. the european central bank by 103%. the bank of england has a debt volume equivalent to 16% of the uk's gross domestic product. the european central bank only 2%. secondly, it must set up a rescue fund with eurobonds - jointly responsible for the time being, as long as the treaty is not amended, but before 9 september. and if that is not done, what minister tremonti said in italy will happen: the titanic will sink and take with it even the first-class passengers. that's your responsibility!
mr president, no cracks, more europe and more economic governance. i support all the measures that have been put forward, but we are still in a political crisis. take your lead and please convey confidence, because europe is neither merkel nor sarkozy! the speeches we heard this morning have been humanized a bit! they talk about the need to recover values and people! economic control, yes, but europe is paralysed. a serious economic recovery plan is therefore urgently needed, with more investment, more public-private partnership, more innovation, more technology, more risk, more economic development accompanied by social development. these measures were successful in the basque country in the crisis of the 80s, which were governed by the basque nationalist party. we got triple a, just like germany. however, we have been dragged along by the brand españa. look at the regions! and, mr juncker, in constructive dialogue, take account of the knowledge of all. the method is important. count on the regions to build europe from the bottom up!
mr president, i am the liberal shadow rapporteur on this report. the liberal group would like to make an oral amendment. in the last sentence of article 6(4), we would like to improve the text, adding only four words. after ‘capital employed’ we could add ‘except from public funding’. i think that the other rapporteurs of the big groups are in favour of this.
mr president, i voted in favour because the first railway package was not implemented. the direct consequences: sanctions against the states, loss of competitiveness, efficiency, sustainability and time. ten years later, a re-molding in the hope of creating a truly unique railway space. we have agreed on further liberalisation of the sector, better financing, greater transparency of costs and strengthening of the national regulators, which will constitute a european network and the creation in the future of a european regulator. i regret that the separation between infrastructure manager and service operator is not envisaged in this document, although there will be a later proposal, that the council refuses to include the correlation tables, despite the position of the commission and parliament, and that the majority groups have rejected the possibility of mentioning the regional authorities, some of which have competence in this area. this attitude is living with one's back to reality and, unfortunately, i am sure that in ten years' time this parliament will include the regions in order to achieve the competitive, efficient and sustainable european area we so desire, at least some of them.
in writing. − in favour. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. according to the provisions of point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and of the article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million, drawn from the margin under the global expenditure ceiling from the previous year, and/or from the cancelled commitment appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to heading 1b. the appropriate amounts are entered into the budget as a provision as soon as the sufficient margins and/or cancelled commitments have been identified. as concerns the procedure, in order to activate the fund the commission, in case of a positive assessment of an application, presents to the budgetary authority a proposal for mobilisation of the fund and, at the same time, a corresponding request for transfer. in parallel, a trilogue could be organised in order to find an agreement on the use of the fund and the amounts required. the trilogue can take a simplified form.
in writing. − in favour. the joint parliamentary assembly met twice in 2010. the 19th session was held in tenerife (spain) from 6 to 9 april and the 20th session was held in kinshasa (drc) from 30 november to 3 december. nine resolutions and the declaration on the second revision of the cotonou partnership agreement were adopted. one regional meeting was also held during the year, in mahé (seychelles). in the course of its proceedings, the assembly welcomed the member of the commission with responsibility for development, mr andris piebalgs. the successive co-presidents of the acp-eu council also attended the first session but only the acp council was represented in kinshasa.
in writing. − there is no final vote at second reading. however, we voted against the amendments presented by the efd, which were finally adopted by the majority.
in writing. − abstention. main text on amendment 162 (on burden of proof and equitable use of capacity in service facility) was rejected. however, we welcome that meps agreed to postpone the question of unbundling until the end of next year when the commission will present a legislative proposal on the relationship between infrastructure and railway services. unfortunately, the epp and s&d groups nonetheless managed to include an ambiguous new provision on the separation of financial flows that is open for interpretation. this may keep the transport council from concentrating on the implementation of strong and independent regulators in all member states and thereby possibly delay the creation of the single european railway area.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament has today sent a clear message that the eu needs to stop prevaricating and instead finally commit to continuing with the kyoto protocol beyond 2012. with the un climate talks in a state of protracted limbo, a clear commitment from the eu to kyoto beyond 2012 would give a new impetus to the talks and the need for a comprehensive binding international climate agreement. clearly, resolving the current flaws and loopholes under the kyoto protocol – notably on how emissions from forestry and land use are accounted, as well as the issue of hot air or surplus emissions permits – is essential if the protocol is to be environmentally sound. we welcome that parliament has again made this clear today. the current greenhouse gas target of a 20% reduction by 2020 is clearly at odds with the eu’s pledge to limit the increase in global temperatures to below 2 degrees. we welcome that parliament has highlighted this and the need for the eu to step up its target. it is high time the commission and eu governments delivered on this.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament welcomes the commission’s communication on the eu accountability report 2011 on financing for development as an extremely useful exercise in transparency and peer review. it acknowledges the growing pressure on national budgets as a result of the financial and economic crisis. it believes, however, that achieving the poverty eradication goal will require, above all, policy change in industrialised and developing countries to address the structural causes of poverty. it also reiterates its deep concern about the current acquisition of farmland by government-backed foreign investors, particularly in africa, which is liable to undermine local food security, and urges the commission to include the issue of land grabbing in its policy dialogue with developing countries so as to make policy coherence the cornerstone of development cooperation at both national and international level and prevent the expropriation of small farmers and unsustainable land and water use.
in writing. − in favour. cinema must be perceived as a political act aiming at shaping the european soul, as argued by wim wenders: “europe has its own soul, anchored in culture. and this culture is ‘shaped’ by an instrument that is the cornerstone of our individual and collective consciousness, which in turn creates a european hope. this instrument has a name: cinema.” wim wenders’ words should be the guiding principle of any attempt to shape the future of european cinema. the redefining of the function of the cinema in the european context, ‘european cinema in the digital area’ puts into question the public policies implemented to support the european cinema. cinema needs to be looked at in two different ways, on the one hand as a tool of culture where investments produce long-term intangible results, on the other hand as an important branch of the european industry. creation is the heart of culture whereas industry is its lungs.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the next eu-us summit will be determined by the economic and financial crisis. and i think we should make a modest approach on both sides, applying to ourselves that chinese proverb that before we set out to fix the world, we should first go three times around our own house, weighing, of course, the global influence of each of the parties and underlining the role and the economic, commercial, financial and industrial weight of the european union. beyond the economic and financial problems, i think it is important that we take into account the lessons learned in libya, following operation unified protector, where the european union has been criticised; also the situation in syria, following today's meeting of the arab league, trying to make progress in seeking a resolution in the un security council; the middle east peace process, to which the commissioner referred; the palestinian issue, on which the european union has made a regrettable spectacle in the vote at unesco; and also calling for greater coherence between words and deeds, following president obama's speech in the united states. it is clear, madam president, that the european union and the united states are two partners who share the same vision of the world, not always identical, but who are called to understand and respect each other, and it must be understood that in today's globalised world, faced with the challenges and threats that affect us all equally - the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking or organised crime, the economic and financial crisis or unemployment, the preservation of the environment and natural resources or emigration - we must seek answers from everyone equally, understanding that unilateralism, even that of the most prosperous or the most powerful, is an impossible dream.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to refer to a very specific aspect, which is included in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow: it is cooperation in the field of research and innovation, the so-called r & d & i (research, development and innovation). we are all convinced that, in order to overcome the current economic crisis, the european union must strengthen its international alliances and strategies in priority areas, such as growth and employment. but innovation is the cornerstone on which concrete proposals must be built to jointly forge a new global economic model that is more sustainable, intelligent, fair and lasting. one of the flagship initiatives of the 2020 strategy is the innovation union, which highlights the need to focus our efforts on innovation with the aim of driving a healthier, more prosperous, more stable economy and also a fairer and more dynamic society. in this sense, investment in r & d & i is directed towards a more efficient and sustainable use of energy resources and towards improving the quality of life of citizens. but above all, it allows knowledge and creativity to become the engines of society. i believe that a determined commitment to education and training, as well as the transfer of innovation in working conditions, can reverse this more equitable and sustainable global economic model that we all seek. and for that it is very clear that it is essential that our strategic alliance with the united states also incorporates the common banner of innovation.
madam president, europe and the united states are going through a serious economic crisis. our two economies are very interconnected and at the next summit we must commit ourselves to act in a more coordinated way and implement the commitments made at the g20. in a globalised economy, solutions must be global, but it is also necessary for each one to do his or her homework. the united states must reduce its trade and fiscal deficits and china must revaluate its currency. we europeans must solve the greek crisis and the sovereign debt problems in several of our countries at once, otherwise we will not have credibility as effective partners. president obama's fleeting presence in europe to attend the g20 meeting in cannes contrasts with the time he devotes this week to the asia-pacific region. it seems to be a symbol of the rise of asia and the decline of europe. however, europeans and americans have many challenges to face, not just economic: climate change, nuclear proliferation, energy, terrorism, poverty; and regional issues, such as the arab spring and the middle east conflict. we must consult, coordinate and prevent the concept of the 'west' or the 'transatlantic community' from losing its value to asia. asia must also be part of global governance, but not replace the role of europe. for this we need a genuine europe, a strong european union, an efficient global actor, and not a fragile group of countries that cannot solve the sovereign debt crisis. this is what the united states hopes for and what our citizens want too.
mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, we are faced with one of the issues at the heart of the success of the internet, which is its competitive nature and the net neutrality. in this sense, everything that has to do with this aspect is extremely important. the resolution we are putting forward and debating this afternoon is, i would say, certainly balanced. it agrees with the commission that when there is evidence that the net neutrality is being altered, then it would be time to consider some kind of legislative action, but in the meantime we have to wait to see what the report of the body of european regulators on electronic communications says. i would like to add something else: there are three sine qua non conditions which, in my view, are fundamental to guaranteeing net neutrality. firstly, there must be a genuinely competitive market for telecommunications and service operators. secondly, the user should be able to switch suppliers quickly and easily. if this is not the case, the market will certainly be very weak from a competitive point of view. and thirdly, transparency. but transparency means that users must be really informed of all the criteria used by the network operators so that they can really know whether they are interested or, on the contrary, whether they are interested in switching providers, as i said earlier.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all let me express the regrets of my colleague mr de gucht, who has had to leave for the airport, so has asked me to read his closing remarks. and please be assured that i will convey what i have heard here to my colleague mrs kroes. my colleague thanks you for this very interesting exchange of views. your views and your commitment in the area of the open internet and net neutrality are essential. the commission looks forward to seeing the outcome of your deliberations and to read the motion for a resolution which will be voted on tomorrow. the commission will reflect on the important messages that emerged from today’s exchange of views and assures you that such messages will shape any proposal that is brought forward. overall, the commission will be vigilant that new eu telecoms rules on transparency, quality of service and the ability to switch operator are applied in a way that ensures that open and neutral internet principles are respected in practice. the commission will also publish evidence from berec’s investigation, including any instances of blocking or throttling certain types of traffic. if berec’s findings and other feedback indicate outstanding problems, it will assess the need for more stringent measures. in parallel, the commission will continue its dialogue with the member states and stakeholders to ensure the rapid development of broadband, which is essential to reduce the pressure on internet traffic.
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. thank you so much for this debate. and as i said, it's very important for the presidency, but it's also very important for the country and for all of our citizens, because what you've all been saying in turn, regardless of party affiliation, if i may say so, is that we all support an open, neutral internet. it's a core value and we can't give it up. we must ensure that our citizens have a transparent choice, a choice-aware choice and the best quality of service everywhere. many of you have drawn attention to fundamental rights, consumer protection, the protection of personal data and unfair advertising. the council also notes and draws attention to all these issues in its conclusions. what mr reul and mr hökmark were talking about - building the next generation of networks, using the next frequency resources - is what we have just achieved during the polish presidency. great cooperation with parliament and the completion of the first radio spectrum policy, the sharing and harmonisation of the 800 mhz state will allow us to deliver this internet everywhere, even in those difficult, sparsely populated areas. member states consider the open and neutral nature of the internet to be an important policy objective. here mr alvaro asked why the council had deviated from that objective and changed the wording of the conclusion. there is absolutely no such change in the text, i can quote it now: 'the council stresses the need to preserve the open, neutral nature of the internet and to recognise net neutrality as a political objective'. there's been absolutely no change here. the council stresses the importance of ensuring sufficient transparency to enable consumers to make better and more informed decisions and the importance of addressing possible issues of discrimination and deterioration in the quality of services. these council conclusions will be adopted at the next meeting of the council of ministers on 13 december.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the order of business for the debate on the following oral questions to the council: on the rights of the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the roma population in the eu: on the discrimination against the roma population in the roma in the eu: on the discrimination of the roma in the roma in the eu: on the discrimination of the roma in the roma in the european union: on the rights of the roma in the roma in the eu: on the roma in europe of the roma in europe of the europe of the europe of the europe of the europe of the europe of the europe of the europe of the europe of the europe of the europe of the europe
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? on behalf of the presidency, let me express my gratitude for the opportunity to deal with such a serious issue as the integration of the roma, to which both the council and parliament have devoted a great deal of attention recently. i am thinking in particular of the report adopted by your group of members in march this year, and prepared by ms livija járóká, and i know that it has been very well received. thank you very much. there are two main facts that are important in this whole thing. first, there are some 10 million roma and sinti among our fellow citizens in the european union - more than the population of several smaller member states combined (10 million men, women and children). many of them live in extreme poverty, and their life chances are severely limited. some of them have no prospects and no hope of living the kind of life that we all in this room today take for granted. we all think it is unfair and that it is a source of shame for us as european citizens. the resolutions that the european parliament has adopted over the last few years clearly describe the seriousness of the situation. secondly, article 2 of the treaty on european union states that the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including those of persons belonging to minorities, and that the european union is therefore a community of values not only enshrined in law but also respected in practice. the emphasis the treaty places on minority rights is a reflection of our shared awareness of our shared history of several centuries. those who survived the nazi actions not so long ago (a few decades ago), those who survived the roma holocaust, their children, their grandchildren look with horror at what is happening in the countries of modern europe and are surprised by this level of discrimination, racism and violence against roma and sinti, and they turn to the citizens of europe for protection and help, including legal assistance. these are problems that we - the world and the citizens of modern europe - cannot underestimate. our shared commitment to respect for human dignity, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, cannot simply remain a dead letter. the council has therefore been actively working to transform this commitment into concrete protection for our roma citizens. in may this year, the council held a special meeting devoted exclusively to the issue of roma integration. in response to calls from the commission and the parliament, the council asked member states to meet targets in four key areas: education, employment, healthcare and housing. the aim is to reduce the disparities between the marginalised roma community and the general population of europe. we all have social problems in our countries, we all have social problems in europe, but the most challenging are those who are marginalized and are roma. the main cause of this is poverty, and as we know, it is a very complex problem and can only be overcome by taking action on all possible fronts. after all, all citizens need good schools, decent jobs, good health care, and simply a decent place to live. in europe, we take these things for granted. we would be outraged if each of us were denied even one of these rights, and some of our fellow citizens, including many of roma origin, are still denied any of these four rights, and we can consider this unacceptable in the 21st century. recognising the urgent need for action, the council in may this year called on all member states to prepare national roma integration strategies or integrated sets of policies to improve the situation of roma. the deadline for preparing them is the end of this year. the council is strongly supportive of this process politically. i would remind you that the european council approved the report prepared by the hungarian presidency, noted its importance and called for the swift implementation of the council conclusions of may. the commission is advising member states on this and will be monitoring their progress in the months and years ahead. the council's political position is clear, the council is also a legislator and co-legislator, and we all know that more than 10 years ago the council adopted a directive prohibiting discrimination on grounds of ethnic and racial origin. this directive covers conditions of access to employment, vocational training, social protection, including social security and health care, education and access to and supply of goods and services, including housing. e provisions protect all ethnic groups, including the roma. this directive has been a pillar of anti-discrimination policy for many years, and member states can use it as a basis for their national roma integration strategies. it also allows member states to take active measures to prevent adverse effects linked to ethnic or racial origin and to take measures to compensate for such effects. as you know, we also have a directive which establishes the right of citizens to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states. of course, it is the member states who have the responsibility for implementing the directives and applying their provisions in practice. the commission is responsible for monitoring the transposition and implementation of european legislation and is empowered to initiate infringement proceedings, while the task of enforcing the law falls to national courts and competent national and european authorities. the council advocates an integrated approach whereby problems relating to education, employment, healthcare and housing are tackled simultaneously. this also means integrated action in all european countries at the same time. these will be the main aspects of the national strategies and measures for roma integration being prepared. the council agrees with you that we need to improve access to education, broadly speaking, and we need to ensure that roma become the beneficiaries of employment policies. the council has taken an inclusive approach in these four key areas. in particular, the council asked member states to ensure effective equal access to high-quality services. one of the key prerequisites for success, especially at local level and in relation to the planning and implementation of the strategy, is of course the active participation of the roma communities themselves. the council stressed that civil society has a key role to play in this respect. there is no room for segregation of roma. so we need to make sure that we explicitly promote desegregation in all our policies. nowhere in europe can it be accepted that one ethnic group is assigned to special schools or receives education at a lower level. the same is true of ethnically segregated housing, such as in slums. in short, segregation must be overcome. with regard to the task of monitoring racist attacks in europe, i would like to recall that the council has set up a special body to provide the relevant institutions with support and knowledge related to fundamental rights. the fundamental rights agency, established in 2007, collects and analyses data. it drew attention to the problems faced by minorities in europe, including the roma. thanks to the work of this agency, we know very well that we have no reason to be complacent. three years ago, the council also adopted a framework decision on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia through criminal law. article 6 of the treaty states that the union recognises the rights, freedoms and principles set out in the charter of fundamental rights, which has the same legal value as the treaties. the rights recognised in article 20, equality, article 21, non-discrimination, and article 22, cultural, religious and linguistic diversity, are particularly important for the integration of roma. the importance of these fundamental rights has been reaffirmed by the council in its recent conclusions. i would quote: 'protecting fundamental rights, in particular by combating discrimination and segregation in accordance with existing european legislation and the international obligations of the member states, is essential for improving the situation of marginalised communities, including the roma.' member states are responsible for ensuring that the rule of law is respected in their own country, but let us not underestimate the importance of our common legal framework, which provides real guarantees at european level. over the years, the council and parliament have worked together to strengthen this framework. each institution has its own role to play here, as defined by law. the commission monitors the application of this right in the member states, but the european court of justice also carries out its tasks. however, it is primarily the responsibility of the member states to respect the values and principles they have themselves adopted. the last two days, yesterday and the day before yesterday, the fifth equality summit was held in poznan, poland. we talked about how to effectively translate these european and national policies into local and regional action - where you can really effectively reach out to that individual citizen whose rights are being violated. we must be particularly sensitive to the situation in each country, because we are dealing with the diversity of the roma community within the country. in some countries, like poland, there's 0.1% of the roma community, but we have countries where they're almost 10%. we must take into account the ethnic diversity of the roma themselves and act in a way that actually encourages them to cooperate, rather than antagonize each other. we must remember that they have lived with us in europe for 600 years, and we still have a lot to do, and that is why each country must prepare a map of action in its own area. our roma fellow citizens have the same rights, the same hopes and the same expectations as we do. they're counting on our continued commitment. i would like to express my appreciation to parliament for placing this issue at such a high level in parliament's deliberations and thank you very much for this meeting today and for this discussion on the situation of roma in europe.
member of the commission. − i would like to start by expressing, on behalf of the commission, our deepest concern over the difficult situation that roma people in europe still face today. this issue is of great concern, not only to mrs reding, but to the whole commission, and i personally am a member of the task force that was set up especially for this purpose. you will hear that i have also taken some very positive steps towards alleviating the position of the roma population. the roma are europe’s largest ethnic minority – and perhaps the least understood. they are certainly european citizens and they have exactly the same rights as we all have. wherever they live, the roma are often surrounded by an atmosphere of isolation, sometimes by outright hostility. this is a community that is regularly denied equal access to education, housing and employment. we cannot accept this situation in europe. we will not accept it. it goes against everything that europe stands for – our values and our vision of a fair and inclusive society, free of discrimination, where every citizen can play a full part in social and economic life. we have to really help the roma people take a full part in our life and in our communities. at the same time, this year we have witnessed unprecedented progress in the development of a common eu approach in tackling the exclusion of the roma from our societies. i am confident that this will lead to tangible improvements in the lives of the roma people. this progress is the result of the joint efforts of all the european institutions to improve the social and economic integration of roma people in our society. the ‘eu framework for national roma integration strategies’ reflects a strong political commitment by all key players. for the first time, the council in its conclusions calls on member states to adopt an effective approach on roma integration through national strategies or a set of policy measures. the commission has managed to keep roma integration high on the political agenda, including in the current economic and financial context. many of my colleagues have been involved and have ensured an inter-disciplinary approach to tackle this complex matter. on 7 september 2010, the commission set up a roma task force in which several commissioners (reding, andor, malmström, hahn and myself) worked hand in hand to assess how effectively member states were using the available funds. the report of the task force, in december 2010, showed that there was no evidence of strong and proportionate measures in place in member states to tackle the social and economic problems of a large part of the eu’s roma population. the commission concluded that this situation was neither acceptable nor sustainable. this house – with support from the whole political spectrum – called for an eu strategy and the commission responded. we all agreed that there was a need for effective policy planning and implementation and there was a need for a strategic approach. for this reason, the commission decided to set out an ‘eu framework for national roma integration strategies’. this eu framework was welcomed by all member states, who recognised it as an important step towards a more socially cohesive europe and expressed their commitment to its implementation at the highest political level of heads of state and governments. we have now reached the moment of truth about these commitments from member states, who are expected to present their strategies by the end of this year. i would like to stress that the eu framework calls on all member states to ensure first of all that roma are treated like any other eu citizen, with equal access to all fundamental rights. it also calls for the social inclusion of the roma on such crucial issues as education, employment, health and housing. the eu framework expresses the idea that the social and economic aspects of integration are complementary to the existing eu legislation and policies in the areas of non-discrimination, fundamental rights and free movement of persons. the commission will not forget this aspect when assessing the national roma integration strategies and reporting to parliament and council. in addition to these policy developments, the commission has redoubled its efforts to make sure member states correctly transpose and implement the existing legislation protecting the rights of the roma people. firstly, the commission is strictly monitoring the implementation and application of the racial equality directive across all member states. secondly, the commission has taken all necessary measures within its power to ensure that all member states respect the safeguards for citizens in the free movement directive, but please let us not mix up evictions with expulsions. the various media reports concern both evictions and expulsions. as regards expulsions from the territory of a member state, the commission has no information about expulsions having taken place after the entry into force of the new french law, which is now considered to be in line with the free movement directive. the evictions are subject to national law. thirdly, the commission is closely monitoring the transposition and implementation of the council framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. this decision obliges member states to penalise the intentional public incitement to violence and hatred against groups or individuals by reference to their race, colour, religion, descent or national or ethnic origin. more generally, the commission is following closely recent developments in the eu member states and strongly condemns all forms of racism and xenophobia, as these phenomena violate the most basic values of the european union. public authorities must unequivocally distance themselves from, and actively fight against, racist and xenophobic behaviour. last but not least, i would like to stress that the involvement of civil society and the active participation of the roma in the preparation, implementation and monitoring of policies are crucial to the success of roma inclusion. earlier this year, i signed an agreement with the council of europe to train 1 000 roma mediators. up to now we have already trained 600 of them. these people will work with local communities across europe, building trust and helping roma families to enjoy their full economic and social rights. when we assess the member states’ national strategies, the commission will pay special attention to how roma civil society is involved in policy-making and implementation. finally, let me welcome the european parliament’s support for the preparation of the national roma integration strategies. i know that you hosted a conference on this theme last week, and i congratulate you for your work. i hope you will agree that the challenges facing our roma citizens demand a joint effort from all eu institutions. while member states carry the heaviest responsibility to guarantee the roma people’s fundamental rights, the eu will both support their work and continue to ensure that european laws are fully respected.
thank you very much, madam commissioner. i would like to stress that in this debate the six authors of the oral questions and the representatives of the council and the commission are all women, which is statistically significant, especially when the issue we are discussing is of a high profile.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the roma are europeans. the eu framework for national roma strategies is no doubt the most advanced document produced by the commission on improving the socio-economic inclusion. but there is something very important lacking: the anti-discrimination targets and measures. stop violence against the roma. there are a lot of cases where we see anti-roma and anti-gypsy violence: physical and psychological violence against the roma. it has happened in many member states and worst of all is the impunity that is behind all these cases. on some occasions, it is even political and public servants who are doing this with no response from the european institutions. roma rights must be respected. combating discrimination is a pre-condition for economic inclusion. adopting a combination of a minority-rights approach with an anti-discrimination approach is necessary for achieving substantive equality. this is why i agree with all those who explain and defend the approach that we have to take here. we must treat anti-gypsyism in the same way we treat anti-semitism.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, although this report is about the redefinition of the euratom framework programme for the next two years only, in order to temporarily bring the two european research framework programmes back into line, it is important to bear in mind that since 2006, when the current euratom programme was adopted, two events of major significance have occurred: the nuclear accident at fukushima and the announcement by several european countries that they would not extend the life of the power stations. contrary to what may appear at first sight, the medium-term prospect of the dismantling of nuclear power stations in some of the countries of the union does not mean that we should cut back on nuclear research. even if all nuclear power plants were to close tomorrow, we would still have to manage waste, improve its storage and decontamination and reduce its volume, among many other issues that have already been mentioned and that require sufficient investment in r & d. it is also vital that nuclear research continues to have the best scientists who can respond to these important challenges. investing in human capital training is therefore also of paramount importance, something which is also covered by the euratom programme. moreover, if anything has become clear after fukushima, it is that the scientific basis on which the assumption of risks in the operation of the plant was based was not sufficiently solid, which shows the importance of the safety of the reactors that are in operation today and the safety of the spent combustion cycle being backed up by the results of thorough and rigorous research, which are more than sufficient reasons to support the need to strengthen these lines of research in the current euratom framework programme. finally, i too would like to mention, madam commissioner, the urgent need to find a definitive solution for the financing of the iter programme, a solution which, as the report clearly states, does not involve a budgetary reallocation from the seventh framework programme, but rather an increase in the multiannual financial framework for the financial years 2012-13 by raising the ceiling for heading 1a. madam president, madam commissioner, in connection with the iter project, our group wants to see a sensible agreement with the council as soon as possible, so that the dossier can be adopted quickly.
opinion of the committee on regional development - madam president, coastal regions, seas and oceans are undoubtedly fundamental to the economic growth of the european union and all its member states. following the communication from the commission 'an integrated maritime policy for the european union', known as the 'blue book', we have reached the present stage, where the concept of an integrated maritime policy is therefore welcomed, since what it does and what it pursues is to make better use, without a doubt, of the opportunities that the sea offers us. they know that this concept will be the basis for an environmental policy, a policy on maritime transport, which is so important in all these areas, an energy, research, fisheries or regional policy. all these issues are certainly important for all these areas. i for my part fully support the proposal for a regulation from the committee on regional affairs and, moreover, we consider that the amount of 40 million earmarked for 2011-13 is a sufficient amount. i would like to say that it would be necessary for this funding to continue in the future, from 2014, as a process has begun which we must consolidate and, therefore, give continuity to a line of action which is promising. i also want to say that it would be important to work in a homogeneous way in all the seas of the european union so that the diversity of projects can be seen and so that we can really know firsthand what we are facing in each sea basin. the north sea is clearly not the same as the mediterranean problems and therefore a homogeneous distribution would be good to know precisely this diversity. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the various opinions which have done nothing but complete a programme which we consider to be very important for the future of the european union.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on this report and on the good result. in applying article 50, the committee on transport and tourism and the committee on fisheries have worked together. this has improved the original document, given it coherence and made its title a reality, because it is a comprehensive text on maritime policy. the programme has a general objective: to make decisions in a coordinated, coherent, transparent and sustainable way in relation to seas, coastal regions, islands, outermost regions and in the different marine sectors; and specific objectives for its development: to advance integrated maritime governance and develop information exchange instruments to improve maritime surveillance and environmental protection, among others, with a financial envelope that we hope will continue and increase from 2014. all this in order to achieve economic growth, social cohesion and sustainable development, with an international dimension, but with a guarantee, because the council must present, by december 2012, its impact on the policies of the union, measure the result of our decisions. in short, more governance, more europe.
madam president, madam commissioner, congratulations to the rapporteur and to all the committee rapporteurs who have helped to improve this text! the integrated maritime policy presents a joint vision of our seas, that is, of the maintenance of 70% of the earth. the balance between ecosystems, coastal populations and the sea as a means of communication, but we must not forget new forms of competitiveness, such as the existence of wind farms or the use of wave energy. the population living on the coast is of considerable social importance, more than 50%, and many people live from fishing. fisheries are a fundamental element in this report, they have an important aspect of balance and sustainability, they can ensure the balance of the ecosystem and, of course, the research part is also important. i think the rapporteur has stressed the importance of agreements with third countries and europe can contribute to the balance of the ecosystem of those third countries with such agreements, in order to maintain the sustainability of our seas.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would also like to begin by thanking and congratulating mrs lövin on the excellent work she has done in this very fundamental area of the fight against illegal fishing. because, in fact, the eta is one of the worst threats not only to biodiversity but also to those parts of the sector which depend precisely on the good state of the resources and which want to do things right. but for that, we need more coherence. what is unacceptable is that - as has been said - ships and companies that have been fishing illegally receive public, institutional funds from the european union or the member states, as is the case in spain with vidal armadores. this is unacceptable. we therefore need measures to ensure more research, more capacity for control and, above all, deterrent and exemplary sanctions. and we have a great opportunity to do this now with the reform of the community fisheries policy. that is why i welcome not only the report but also the commissioner's words, and i hope that we will take advantage of this opportunity, which we have unfortunately not done in the past.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs lövin and mr christensen on their contributions. my group has tabled amendments to the transaction. this report gives the european union a greater role in dealing with illegal fishing. europe can take the lead in the world. there was a regulation which, it seems, was insufficient. this regulation will give us more guarantees, because there are the same type of inspections for all the countries of the union, the verification of data and the same sanctions. this means that we are going to identify the offender, not blame a sector, mr romeva, but the offender. and there will be a very important external dimension, the import of fish from third countries, introducing obligations for the import of fish, accreditation documents for the authorities of third countries. the agreements will play a major role as a means of closing the door to the fleet that is not respectful. we must all work against illegal fishing, but at this moment the european union can lead the way in this action against illegal fishing worldwide.
mr president, mrs lövin's report is a good reference point for the fundamental question of joining forces in the fight against illegal fishing. the objectives of a common policy on sustainable fisheries, the protection of the marine environment and the promotion of fishing without unfair competition are thwarted if illegal fishing is not combated in a committed manner. the oceans know no borders, so efforts must be made both at european and international level. the european union must therefore be credible in its policies and must sanction practices, such as those recently published, in which community-flagged vessels operate illegally in waters protected by conservation measures. the problem of illegal fishing is not just a matter for vessels flying the flags of third countries but also a problem for european operators. we cannot make progress without a strong financial instrument, which makes access to public money conditional on strictly effective controls and the application of all fishing rules.
in writing. − in favour. the international criminal court (icc), since its inception on 1 july 2002, the day when the rome statute entered into force, has been successfully implementing its unique global mandate of pursuing perpetrators of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide. using the principle of ‘complementarity’ which stipulates that the court would act only if the national courts in question are unable or unwilling to do so, the court opened investigations into the situations in uganda, the democratic republic of the congo (drc), darfur (sudan) and the central african republic (car), kenya, and libya, and côte d’ivoire. despite its efforts, professionalism and commitment, icc currently finds itself in a critical time juncture, due to political and financial circumstances beyond its control. it increasingly comes under unfair, politically-motivated attacks, its arrest warrants are frequently disregarded, and its current budget is not adequate to its needs. as the eu has been a staunch supporter of the icc, the purpose of this report is to evaluate how it could further assist the court in facing the challenges and overcome the difficulties of both political and financial nature it faces.
in writing. − in favour. the integrated maritime policy advocates an integrated approach to the management and governance of the oceans, seas and coasts, and fosters interaction between all sea-related policies in the eu. the purpose of the proposed funding, € 50 million, is to continue the work undertaken since 2007. the foundations for the integrated maritime policy have been set. the european parliament adopted resolutions in 2007(1), 2008(2) and 2010(3) in reaction to the commission’s green paper(4) and its communication on an integrated maritime policy for the european union (com(2007)0575). several initiatives were financed through preparatory actions and pilot projects, which had a time limit of two or three years, by their very nature. the regulation foresees a programme for a stable framework to keep supporting them from 2011 to 2013. the main issues addressed in this draft report are: - better clarifying the objectives of the programme, - a clear position on its financing, - more involvement of the legislators in further decision-making through delegated acts and reporting.
in writing. − against. all four amendments concerning the call to the eu to move resolutely towards a non-nuclear economy and against iter have been rejected.
in writing. − abstention. a very weak and sometimes contradictory resolution.
in writing. − in favour. 1. welcomes the commission’s communication and agrees with its analysis, in particular on the necessity of preserving the open and neutral character of the internet as a key driver of innovation and consumer demand, while ensuring that the internet can continue to provide high-quality services in a framework that promotes and respects fundamental rights; 2. notes that the conclusions of the commission’s communication indicate there is, at this stage, no clear need for additional european-level regulatory intervention on net neutrality;
in writing. − in favour. the ep: 1. calls on the member states not to adopt, endorse or subsequently ratify any protocol to the ccw allowing for the use of cluster munitions, which are prohibited under the ccm, and calls on the council and the member states to act accordingly at the fourth ccw review conference to be held from 14 to 25 november 2011 in geneva; 2. deeply regrets the fact that the draft text of protocol vi to be discussed at that conference threatens to undermine the clear and robust international humanitarian law standard established by the ccm, which comprehensively bans cluster munitions, and would also weaken the protection of civilians; 3. urges states to acknowledge the humanitarian consequences and high political cost of supporting this proposed draft protocol, which is full of exceptions and loopholes that would allow cluster munitions to be used; 4. calls on the member states and candidate countries which are not states parties to the ccm to accede to it and on the states signatories to the ccm to ratify it as soon as possible;
in writing. − abstention. at the end of the process the greens have not been included in the negotiation. a bit of confusion on what is the intention of the global text.
in writing. - the reason for my abstention is not the content of the joint resolution tabled by three political groups but a criticism, since the resolution was not made available to members until a few hours before the vote.
in writing. − in favour. the text addresses, in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the association agreement, the following recommendations to the council, the commission and the eeas: (a) ensure that the negotiations with georgia continue at a steady pace; (b) ensure as well that the association agreement is a comprehensive and forward-looking framework for the further development of relations with georgia in upcoming years;
in writing. − in favour. the ultimate goal of gender mainstreaming is to change the nature and institutions of the mainstream to be more reflective of the needs, aspirations and experiences of all society, both women and men. gender mainstreaming can be said to question the gender neutrality of institutions since they may reproduce and contribute to gender inequality through their internal assumptions, working procedures and activities. the concept of gender mainstreaming effectively entered the mainstream of international public policy in september of 1995, when it featured in the platform for action of the fourth world conference on women in beijing, which defined the term broadly and committed the institutions of the un system to the systematic incorporation of a gender perspective into policymaking. in 1997, the united nations defined gender mainstreaming as: ‘… the process of assessing the implications for women and men of any planned action, including legislation, policies or programmes, in all areas and at all levels. it is a strategy for making women’s as well as men’s concerns and experiences an integral dimension of the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and programmes in all political, economic and societal spheres so that women and men benefit equally and inequality is not perpetuated.’
in writing. − in favour. the fao adopted a plan of action to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing in 2001, which has since been a declared priority of the international community. iuu fishing undermines efforts to conserve and manage fish stocks in all capture fisheries. when confronted with iuu fishing, national and regional fisheries management organizations can fail to achieve management goals. this situation leads to the loss of both short and long-term social and economic opportunities and to negative effects on food security and environmental protection. iuu fishing can lead to the collapse of a fishery or seriously impair efforts to rebuild stocks that have already been depleted. existing international instruments addressing iuu fishing have not been effective due to a lack of political will, priority, capacity and resources to ratify or accede to and implement them. (fao 2001 plan of action, first paragraph) by its very nature, the extent of iuu fishing is impossible to estimate with any precision, but it is known to be very large. one recent study suggested it accounted for between 11 and 26 million tonnes per year. even the low end of that range is equivalent to 15% of marine catches.
in writing. - the seas and oceans represent more than 90% of the available living space, cover 71% of our planet and are a heritage of humanity. conserving its biodiversity and managing its resources responsibly is an international priority requiring a global governance system. illegal fishing, which is estimated to account for at least 15% of catches, undermines this purpose, leads to a loss of economic and social opportunities and has repercussions on food security and the environment. the eu, which has regulations in this area, has a special responsibility as a major player in the sector and the main global market. i congratulate the rapporteur on a report full of initiatives to bring transparency to vessels, licences, catches, the management and regulation of fishing activities on the high seas, the coast, ports and markets. i am grateful that you accept my amendments to require an organization in the united nations system to develop independent assessments of compliance by flag states, to call for international legal instruments to prosecute and punish illegal fishing trade and to support the fao's objective to end the ports of convenience, gateway to the illegal catch trade.
madam president, once again the european council is in an even worse critical situation than the previous one, which was already critical. we have made mistakes in our diagnosis, our strategy and our prescription, not because of a lack of clarity in these debates, but because we have not been willing to act accordingly. the commission is dragging its feet in the face of initiatives taken by a board of two governments which not only do not take account of the other states but do not even listen to the commission and the european parliament. and what we need is not a reform of the treaties that imposes even greater punishments on countries that are already suffering, to cause them more suffering; what we need, on the contrary, is to correct the congenital defects with which the single currency, the euro, was born. and that requires authorizing the european central bank to act as lender of last resort, to intervene in the markets and, of course, to authorize the issuance of bonds. to the mistakes we have already made, we cannot afford to add an error of judgment, which would mean confusing the evils we must face with what are only their symptoms.
mr president, mr rehn, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has so far failed to treat the economic policy of its members as a matter of common concern. its economic pillar has not functioned in accordance with its responsibilities and circumstances. the failure to meet the commitments of the stability and growth pact and the objectives of the lisbon agenda showed the inadequacy of the fiscal surveillance and economic coordination mechanisms before the crisis. the imbalances at the root of the current crisis have once again demonstrated that economic problems require political responses. the european semester was born of the proposals of the commission and the working party on economic governance set up under the spanish presidency. it is a step towards strengthening economic and budgetary coordination within the european union. neither the market nor national initiatives alone are sufficient to address systemic risks and to put the european economy back on a sustainable path. bureaucratic logic or a purely intergovernmental approach will not cover the shortfall in european economic governance either. to move forward in political union, we must strengthen democratic legitimacy. the european semester cannot be carried out behind the backs of the citizens or in defiance of democratic principles. i therefore support the berès report, which calls for the role of the european parliament, the national parliaments and interparliamentary dialogue in their responsible and effective development.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr vidal-quadras has to be commended for trying to move through the labyrinthine political architecture of the european union - which is a really labyrinthine architecture - in order to ensure that this parliament is not excluded from co-decision on such important issues as these instruments. i would like to say that my group in this parliament is very critical of two instruments: the instrument for stability and the instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights at the global level. we believe that democracy and human rights are universal. we cannot put one human right above another and the recent experiences of our relations with mubarak, ben ali, gaddafi, the present day saudi arabia or morocco show that we have an experience of putting some human rights above others. it is therefore a clearly ideological and interventionist instrument. we do not agree with this instrument and believe, on the contrary, that we should make a full defence of what human rights are.
mr president, the last general elections in morocco have produced an abstention of more than 77% of the population according to official figures; some analysts speak of a higher abstention. it seems to me that the european union should take note of the desire for democracy and the development of a genuinely constituent process in morocco. i hope that these data will lead to a reflection in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, in view of the more than questionable results, despite the fact that the "february 20 movement" flooded the streets of morocco protesting against the manipulation carried out by the regime, by the entire apparatus of the regime. i think the european union should change its attitude and not appear as a collaborator, as it did with mubarak and ben ali. i therefore call on the european commission to pay more attention and to correct its policy on morocco.
mr president, our dependence on energy is well known: we import 60% of our gas and 83% of our oil; in the case of coal, the dependence is 41%. coal is the main source of electricity generation in the union, on a par with nuclear power and gas. by limiting our extraction capacity, we will only be able to import it from countries that do not have our social or environmental standards. the commission should review the current framework for aid to coal extraction in its energy strategy up to 2050. the new legislation can be improved with regard to the time limit for closing farms or the obligation to repay aid in order to continue operating. our dependence on energy is another external vulnerability and in the current crisis this will be something we will pay for sooner rather than later.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i welcome you to this parliament. madam president, i want to thank the shadows, assistants and advisers for their very good collaboration on this report. today we shall discuss the ecb report which was largely approved in the econ committee last month. on debt crisis management, i welcome the ecb's interventions in the markets. if necessary, i encourage them to continue these in the next weeks. these interventions have saved the euro; without them, the situation now would be worse. we also deplore the hesitation in management of the crisis by the european commission and by member states, particularly those countries lacking reforms, as that has often pushed the ecb to act. we also express worries in the report about the limits of ecb interventions; monetary policy cannot solve every problem. every country is responsible for its own fiscal situation. we cannot ignore that there is a growing exposure to risky assets in the ecb balance sheet. the ecb is right now a lender of last resort. for the banking sector, the ecb has been a lender of last resort since may 2010. there has been an unlimited credit flow from the ecb to euro zone banks. those banks have been buying huge amounts of public debt from euro zone governments. this massive ecb help may have taken away, or delayed, incentives to carry out reforms in some member states. in the report we voted to reinforce economic governance. i believe that fiscal discipline is a precondition for more european integration. i think that national and regional budgets should be supervised at the european level. the report we voted also shares mr trichet's opinion regarding the need for a european minister of finance to coordinate a basic common fiscal policy and to enhance the effectiveness of the euro. this debt crisis shows that in a monetary union fiscal policy cannot be exclusively left to member states. the report we adopted also stresses the need for a european treasury to relieve the ecb of its quasi-fiscal role. until then, we suggest entrusting more tasks to the european stability mechanism. mr draghi, i would welcome your views on these proposals. finally, on transparency, i call for the publication of the minutes of the governing council meetings, as is the case with the us federal reserve, the bank of england, the bank of japan and the bank of sweden. i consider non-publication a sign of weakness of the monetary union. we need public and individual accountability in the decision-making processes. with this in mind, we will vote today for the publication of the summary of governing council meetings. we hope that the ecb will listen to the democratic voice of this house in this respect.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, it has been a difficult year for both francesca balzani and josé manuel fernandes. it has also been a difficult exercise for the european parliament delegation to the committee on budgetary conciliation, headed by alain lamassoure. the president-in-office of the council will probably be pleased. he has reasons: he saved his particular match ball in the tennis match that the negotiation of the 2012 budget became, particularly on the night of the conciliation, including amending budget no 6/2011 and the financial implications of the iter project. but i do not see much more reason for satisfaction: the unwritten rules of budgetary negotiations have been changed for the second time. before the treaty of lisbon came into force, a level of commitment appropriations was fixed in the budgetary conciliation and then we negotiated the necessary payment appropriations. the council now unilaterally fixes the level of payment appropriations and then negotiates a level of commitment appropriations. to do so is to call into question the european commission's estimates and to put the european parliament before an accomplished fact. this time the european parliament accepts it because of the economic emergency we are living in, because that makes an agreement essential, even if it is a bad agreement. but this way of negotiating, mr president-in-office of the council, does not bode well for the forthcoming negotiations on the financial perspective.
mr president, i think that sometimes when we get too deep into a negotiation and get too much into detail we can lose a little bit of perspective, and that is why i would like to remind some of the honourable members who are very critical of the outcome of this negotiation that the proposal put forward by the european commission and the proposals of the european parliament could be more than 95% alike. that is why i believe that, if we look at this outcome of the negotiations from the point of view of commitments, the result has not been so bad. we have strengthened programmes which will help us to combat the crisis: programmes for entrepreneurship and innovation, the smart energy programme or programmes such as erasmus mundus. we have also put money into helping our neighbours in the southern mediterranean to face a democratic future. but it is true that happiness can never be total. the council has spent three years with one word in mind: austerity. and they're not able to see beyond that. if austerity as a principle has not convinced parliament, the results obtained by these austerity policies in the european economy, which is under pressure, have not helped us to change our mind. and the council is only continuing to insist on austerity, but it has also taken a further step, and a step which may prove dangerous. it is one thing to adjust the payment appropriations to the maximum and quite another, as has happened now, to fail to meet the obligations assumed. that is not a budgetary policy option. it's not strictness or austerity. what you're doing is breaking commitments.
we now come to the explanations of vote.
mr president, since 2010 we have been experiencing, especially in the euro area, a sovereign debt crisis without precedent in our recent history, which is demonstrating the weaknesses of european instruments to combat speculation in the so-called 'markets'. one of the instruments we have in the euro area is the european central bank, whose political ambition to tackle the debt crisis and to bet on growth has, in my view, been clearly insufficient: first, in relation to growth, by giving up a reduction in interest rates - which other central banks have done - that would encourage consumption and investment to promote them within their competence; and, secondly, in relation to sovereign debt, by intervening in secondary markets only at the limit moments, and without being able to be able to mobilise and use all its resources to fight against speculation and in favour of the protection of our common currency, by acting as a bank of last resort, which is agile but determined. all this explains the reasons for our intention to vote on this report and also our demands for the future on the role to be played by the european central bank.
the explanations of vote are closed. written explanations of vote
in writing. − in favour. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the limits of the ceilings available for one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. for the 2012 budget, additional expenditure, beyond the ceilings of headings 1a and 4 is required, and the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in accordance with point 27 of the interinstitutional agreement. the amounts to be mobilised are as follows: eur 30.75 million for the eu 2020 strategy under heading 1a; eur 208.67 million for the european neighbourhood policy instrument under heading 4. the two arms of the budgetary authority are reminded that the publication of the decision in the official journal of the european union shall not intervene later than the publication for the 2012 budget.
in writing. − against. today’s budget vote rubberstamps a scaling-back of ambition for the eu and the prospects for a european response to the crisis. the eu budget is a key instrument for european investment and should be a key instrument for stimulating european economic recovery in response to the crisis but this deal will reduce its ability to do so. the proposed spending in key areas will also fail to ensure the sustainable transformation of the european economy. instead of prioritising investment in green technologies, the budget allocates a disproportionate amount of funding to nuclear energy vis-à-vis safe and sustainable energy technologies, like renewables and energy efficiency. all of this ignores the ticking budgetary time bomb that is the iter nuclear fusion project. despite the blind focus on cutbacks across the budget, the council is still insisting that the ballooning costs for iter are met under the eu budget. instead, with nuclear fusion a technology that will not be commercially viable before 2050, if ever, the council should finally give up on pouring public funds into this hugely expensive white elephant.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to 726 redundancies in three companies operating in nace revision 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the nuts ii regions of north (pt11) and central (pt16) in portugal. the egf shall provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to help them re-enter the labour market. denmark has submitted an application for egf funds for redundancies in the automotive sector which complies with the fund's own rules. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. according to the provisions of point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and of the article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million, drawn from the margin under the global expenditure ceiling from the previous year, and/or from the cancelled commitment appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to heading 1b. the appropriate amounts are entered into the budget as a provision as soon as the sufficient margins and/or cancelled commitments have been identified. as concerns the procedure, in order to activate the fund the commission, in case of a positive assessment of an application, presents to the budgetary authority a proposal for mobilisation of the fund and, at the same time, a corresponding request for transfer. in parallel, a trilogue could be organised in order to find an agreement on the use of the fund and the amounts required. the trilogue can take a simplified form.
in writing. − in favour of waiving the immunity of georgios toussas as the case concerns an alleged breach of trust resulting in damages.
in writing. − in favour of defending the parliamentary immunity of de magistris, as his statements have a direct connection with de magistris’s performance of his duties as an mep.
in writing. − in favour. council regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 identified the various forms of assistance that could be provided through structural fund contributions. member states established during the 2000-2006 programming period these forms of assistance by setting up specific funds and through repayable assistance delivered via other instruments. on the contrary, council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 does not provide a definition of assistance as either repayable or non-repayable. it contains provisions for ‘financial engineering instruments’; however, these provision are rather narrow. repayable assistance seems not to be covered by this regulation. nonetheless, member states continued to use repayable forms of assistance based on the positive experience of the past programming period. even the commission approved programming documents including descriptions of these systems. the european court of auditors has identified the issue of repayable assistance in its audits of erdf operations. it is therefore necessary to set out in regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 that the structural funds may co-finance repayable assistance. the commission proposal aims to provide clarity about the legality of an existing legal practice.
in writing. − in favour. the european union is being confronted with the persistence of the economic and financial crisis having an alarmingly negative impact on the macroeconomic stability and budget of member states. reductions in national financial resources available to finance public investments have become a clear constraint to cohesion policy implementation and absorption of structural funds in some countries. member states eligible for this measure are defined (1) as those euro countries that have received financial assistance under a programme from the european financial stabilisation mechanism (efsm) or (2) those non-euro countries that that have received financial assistance from the balance of payments (bop) mechanism. the way to provide additional financial assistance through cohesion policy is a “top-up” of the co-financing rate, allowing for an increase in payments to the countries eligible. the ec proposes a 10 percentage point top-up of the applicable co-financing rates for the priority axis of the programmes.
in writing. − in favour. the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), does not in principle allow any difference between the taxation of local products of the canary islands and the taxation of products from spain or other member states. council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2002, adopted on the basis of article 299(2) of the ec treaty, authorises spain, up to 31 december 2011, to apply exemptions from or reductions in the tax known as aiem to a list of products produced locally in the canary islands. decision 2002/546/ec sets out the reasons for adopting specific measures, designed to strengthen local industry by making it more competitive. the global economic crisis of 2009, with its impact in the reduction of travelling, had severe consequences on the economy of canary islands, highly dependent on the revenues from tourism. hence, unemployment rose from a rate oscillating between 10.4% and 12%, for the 2001-2007 period to 26.2% in 2009.
in writing. − in favour. taking into account the special conditions, characteristics and constraints of the eu's outermost regions, including the french overseas departments (fod), the council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, will adopt specific measures aimed at laying down the conditions of application of the treaties, including common policies. one of the areas concerned by these specific measures is fiscal policy. however, the measures formerly mentioned will not undermine the integrity and coherence of the union legal order. council decision 2007/659/ec of 9 october 2007, adopted on the basis of article 299(2) of the ec treaty (now article 349 tfeu), authorises france to apply to ‘traditional’ rum produced in its overseas departments and sold on the french mainland a reduced rate of excise duty. the reduction in excise duty is limited to an annual quota of 108 000 hl of pure alcohol. the derogation expires on 31 december 2012.
in writing. - i voted against this annual report on the ecb because it has not only failed to anticipate and put in place mechanisms to prevent the crisis, but has been part of it. the ecb must be reformed to promote full employment, the economy and sustainable growth. the objective of budgetary stability has proved to be a disaster. the independence of the ecb is beyond question, as it is an institution clearly manipulated by bankers which has proved incapable of dealing with the actions of speculators and rating agencies. together with the troika, the ecb has pushed to impose austerity measures that are driving citizens into misery. the ecb has been a co-conspirator in the coup d'état of markets that have been able to replace democratically elected governments with governments of technocrats and bankers.
in writing. − in favour. the ep: expresses concern at the effect of interest rate increases on economic growth in the euro area; adds that this could hinder the already slow recovery in the euro area, particularly in its weakest economies; stresses that before the financial crisis private debt, as well as credit bubbles and in some cases public debt, increased in an unsustainable way, and that risks were created through private debt bubbles; notes, further, that the increase in government debt was the result of the need to save the private sector, in particular the financial sector; takes the view that, in addition to the hipc, asset price trends and credit growth in the eu and in member states are crucial indicators for the effective monitoring of financial stability within the emu and, more broadly, the eu; emphasises that the repurchasing of bonds on secondary markets is justified by the aim of restoring a monetary policy which functions effectively during this period of exceptional malfunctioning of certain sectors of the market; notes that these repurchasing programmes are complemented by programmes neutralising liquidity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to send a double message: firstly to the institutions, calling on them to continue to invest in education, prevention programmes and intervention against early school leaving as the main policy against inequality and social exclusion, despite the crisis. secondly, to the citizens, to tell them that they must not give up their right to education, at a time when europe is redefining its role in the world, including economic and social aspects. having highly qualified citizens is not only a right that must be guaranteed, but a moral obligation that must be defended. the european commission has already said that in a few years' time 85% of jobs will have to be highly skilled. the more training, the less unemployment, the better jobs and the less precariousness. today, tackling early school leaving is the crucial policy of job placement. creating cross-cutting strategies between citizens, institutions and the educational community is fundamental to combating exclusion.
in writing. − if young people are to participate fully in society and achieve their full potential as individuals and citizens, they must possess a wide range of knowledge and skills for their intellectual and social development, such as effective communication, problem solving and the ability to evaluate information with critical judgment. the problems leading to early school leaving have their roots outside the school and must be identified and addressed. the report recommends that redistribution measures, such as free provision of food, school books and basic sports equipment, be implemented to reduce the impact of social inequality, while at the same time fighting against the risks of stigmatisation of these pupils. the report calls on the member states to present action plans to tackle the problem of early school leaving and calls for more funding and better accessibility for the eu's lifelong learning programme, which increases the mobility of pupils and teachers, enhances the exchange of good practice and contributes to improving teaching and learning methods. it also proposes an efficient use of eu structural funds funding to implement preventive measures against early school leaving. i voted yes.
in writing. − in favour. early school leaving (esl) is a complex phenomenon and a huge challenge facing europe. consequently the eu has begun putting in place numerous measures and tools to better support member states in developing efficient and effective national policies to tackle it. they include the commission communication on tackling early school leaving, a new proposal for a council recommendation on policies to reduce early school leaving, and the commission’s flagship initiative ‘youth on the move’. the europe 2020 strategy, in addition, outlines six headline targets for member states, one of which is to reduce esl to 10% by 2020. this 10% target was previously agreed by member states in 2003, however only seven of them managed to reach the benchmark. in 2009 the rate of esl for all 18-to-24-year-olds in europe stood at 14.4%. most eu countries have made at least some progress in reducing the number of young people leaving school early or with low qualifications, and there has been a noticeable and positive change in how they approach early school leaving; yet this report argues that far more needs to be done.
in writing. i voted against. beyond the technical and financial aspects of supporting the banana sector in 10 acp countries, the rejection of this report was a matter of upholding the powers of the european parliament. after several months of tense negotiations, i am frankly disappointed that my colleagues did not understand the stakes of this vote, preferring to sacrifice the rights of our assembly in the face of the constant and unjustified threats from the commission and the council. while european citizens are increasingly feeling that democracy is being weakened by economic constraints, the european parliament would have sent a positive signal by strengthening the prerogatives it has had since 2007 and defending those it has had since the lisbon treaty came into force. the european parliament decides in the same way as the council on the strategic choices for financing development cooperation and has a democratic right of oversight. in adopting this report today, it has renounced both of these powers following the false rumours and blackmailing by the commission and the council.
in writing. - i voted against this instrument because, although i understand that we are voting on the conciliation procedure, which the ep claims to have powers of control over, we cannot escape the content of the instrument. i have always been very critical of this instrument, because the eu has used and continues to use the issue of human rights to practice a policy of interference in third countries. with this instrument, the eu can finance political parties, foundations and even individuals in any third country it wishes, without the need for authorisation from the recipient country. we have thus been able to see how it has been used since 2006, the year it was created, to finance destabilizing groups in certain latin american countries.
in writing. − in favour. the commission adopted its proposal for a regulation amending regulation no 1889/2006 on establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide on 21 april 2009. the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) is one of the external financing instruments that are dealt with in a package. the eidhr together with the development cooperation instrument (dci) are the only instruments for external action not providing an exception to the principle of the non-eligibility for eu funding of costs related to taxes, duties and other charges. all the other instruments in this area allow for flexibility to accept, on a case by case basis, these costs to be financed in the interest of a proper implementation of programmes and projects. such flexibility is essential as the rigid formulation of the eidhr and dci instruments may make action financed by external aid extremely difficult. the commission proposal intends to align the relevant provision with the other instruments by adding the words ‘in principle’ in article 13, paragraph 6.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament declares it is ready to accept the compromise package in a spirit of compromise as the remaining duration of the current instruments is rather short. it regrets that it was not possible to further improve the text on the dci/bam instrument, in particular in relation to parliament’s role in strategic decisions where an equal footing between the co-legislators is essential. the parliament underlines that this result does not set a precedent for the future negotiations on the post-2013 external financing instruments. in line with the criteria defined in article 290, paragraph 1, the european parliament will insist on the use of delegated acts wherever strategic political decisions are involved on financing and programming with regard to those instruments. the delegation recommends maintaining the package approach, and that the parliament approves the joint text at third reading.
in writing. the report approves the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on statistical returns in the carriage of goods by road. this report does not change the substance of the matter, it is simply a recasting of existing texts, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour. the scope of the delegation of powers to the commission is too broad in the proposed recast. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the application of delegated powers would not cause any additional substantial financial burden on statistical respondents. therefore, and in line with the similar approach taken for the regulation on tourism statistics, we have adopted amendments aiming at limiting the scope of powers delegated to the commission and setting further conditions to the exercising of those powers. moreover, it is necessary to adjust some provisions on implementing acts with the new regulation on implementing acts which entered into force on 1 march 2011. your rapporteur believes that the proposed amendments would be a good basis for further negotiations with the council and the commission. the recast procedure is governed by rule 87 of the rules of procedure.
in writing. − the kaliningrad region of the russian federation has become an eu hub since its enlargement in 2004. there have already been a number of eu initiatives in recent years to facilitate the movement of kaliningrad residents. but given their geographical specificity, these have proved insufficient to alleviate the marginalization of the region and its inhabitants. the report is intended to give its approval to the european commission's proposal to revise and, if necessary, extend these proposals to facilitate the movement of the inhabitants of kaliningrad to europe. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. on 20 december 2006, the european parliament and council adopted regulation (ec) no 1931/2006 laying down rules on local border traffic at the external land borders of the member states (hereafter: the regulation), which enables member states to derogate from the general rules on border checks laid down in the schengen borders code for persons living in a border area, including visa requirement, the need to have sufficient means of subsistence as well as the need to prove the purpose of the stay. the objective of this regulation is to prevent the creation of barriers to trade, social and cultural interchange or regional cooperation with neighbours.
in writing. - my group has always been in favour of croatia joining the eu, as well as any other country, provided it meets the requirements. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it gives the go-ahead for croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. − in favour. the ep has today given its broad support to croatian membership, recognising the huge progress made towards reforms by croatia. the process of reform is not over, however, and croatia should continue on its reform path. this is particularly true in the areas of justice reform, anti-corruption reforms, minority protection and the prosecution of war crimes. the ep has today also criticised the crackdown on the last gay pride parade in split, in spite of efforts by the epp to muzzle this criticism. the ep must now continue to monitor the situation to ensure croatia implements all reforms and that the eu commission properly oversees this. to this end, the greens believe the ep should be given the role of assessing the 6-monthly monitoring reports on croatia's progress. meps also have an important role to convince eu citizens that continuing the enlargement process in the western balkans is in the interest of all in europe.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this report because, although my group has always been in favour of croatia's membership of the eu, as of any other country which meets the requirements laid down for this, i cannot support the eu's demand that croatia implement reforms which are against the interests of the croatian people. the eu's main objective during the accession process has been to promote a competitive neoliberal economy in croatia and the privatisation of certain key sectors. the focus was on improving conditions to make croatia more attractive in the eyes of foreign investors. hence the reforms promoted by the eu are basically aimed at reforming the socio-economic system which will lead to an increase in the country's social and economic differences. for these reasons i have abstained in this report.
in writing. − in favour. the ep has today given its broad support to croatian membership, recognising the huge progress made towards reforms by croatia. the process of reform is not over, however, and croatia should continue on its reform path. this is particularly true in the areas of justice reform, anti-corruption reforms, minority protection and the prosecution of war crimes. the ep has today also criticised the crackdown on the last gay pride parade in split, in spite of efforts by the epp to muzzle this criticism. the ep must now continue to monitor the situation to ensure croatia implements all reforms and that the eu commission properly oversees this. to this end, the greens believe the ep should be given the role of assessing the 6-monthly monitoring reports on croatia's progress. meps also have an important role to convince eu citizens that continuing the enlargement process in the western balkans is in the interest of all in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in the fight against nepotism and corruption in this parliament. we must learn from our mistakes and ensure that there is a review of the regulation in two years' time. the new regulation contains stricter rules on donations and declarations of interest and income, but still stricter standards must be required.
in writing. − in favour, although i also supported the request to eliminate the eur 5000 threshold for declaring occasional remunerated activity. in my view we have to declare everything, not only the income above eur 5000.
in writing. − in favour. the juri committee has decided that uspaskich claim should be rejected on the grounds that no sufficient nexus has been established between the alleged new facts and the bringing of proceedings agains uspaskich for false accounting.
in writing. − in favour. the juri committee has decided that uspaskich claim should be rejected on the grounds that no sufficient nexus has been established between the alleged new facts and the bringing of proceedings agains uspaskich for false accounting.
in writing. - i voted against the european commission's proposal for economic governance and coordination, known as the european semester for the coordination of economic policies, because it means giving more power to the markets and reaffirming the firm commitment to deregulation and the free hand for these, that is, the oligopolies formed by the large multinational companies and the financial sector, to do business by filling a few pockets with the privatised rights for the sake of austerity and cuts. this leaves national parliaments in a bind, with eu oversight of budgets to ensure that they always satisfy the markets, regardless of whether or not the budgets reflect the needs and demands of the citizens of each member state. all of this is more than enough reason to vote against.
in writing. − in favour. the outcome of the draft report (see link a7-0384/2011) of the econ committee is the result of a long process. nine committees drafted opinions which are well reflected in the final text as the rapporteur decided to vote most of them in a chapter called ‘sectoral contributions to the european semester’. more than 350 amendments were tabled in econ. in order to avoid the ‘left-right’ clash of the economic governance package ms berès opted for a smart and inclusive process of negotiation which led to a good outcome. most key green amendments (47) survived through the negotiation process including the following very good elements: - the ep commits to organize a public hearing to hold a dialogue based on the ‘comply or explain’ principle with the commission and the council at which the recommendations from the commission, and the changes introduced by the council, would be discussed. - the report emphasize that the guidelines for the employment policies of member states and the broad economic guidelines both form integral parts of the european semester and are equally important for the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the report also asks the council and the commission to ensure that all policy recommendations are consistent with the integrated guidelines.
in writing. − in favour. the ep: 1. stresses the importance of converting the single market forum into a regular event, to enable businesses and citizens as well as local and regional authorities to directly participate in and influence the further development of the single market; 2. calls on the commission to work with member states, applicant countries and eea partners to hold and promote major public events in 2012 in order to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the single market; considers that the objective should be at least one event in all participating countries, with regional activities as appropriate, linked to a central, main eu event, possibly organised with the eu presidency; 3. calls on the commission to put forward all 12 priorities in the single market act by the end of 2011 to enable the council and the european parliament, in close cooperation with the commission, to adopt a first set of priority measures by the end of 2012 to impart new impetus to the single market;
in writing. − aids is a disease that can be prevented completely. primary prevention interventions that provide the information, technical capabilities, services and products needed to protect people from hiv transmission and encourage safer behaviours are the cornerstones of preventing the spread. it is essential that the commission develops common actions to promote full respect for human rights and adherence to human rights-based approaches to hiv/aids policies, including information campaigns to combat stigmatisation and discrimination against carriers. this resolution calls on member states to do all that is necessary to eliminate all forms of discrimination against persons living with hiv/aids, to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms, with particular attention to vulnerable and hiv-infected persons, to review laws and policies that adversely affect the implementation of effective programmes to combat hiv, and to ensure the participation of persons living with hiv/aids in the definition of anti-discrimination policies. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour. the ep: 1. calls on the commission and council to implement the communication on ‘combating hiv/aids in the european union and neighbouring countries 2009-2013’ and its accompanying action plan by: - scaling up the implementation of prevention strategies which effectively target regional or local epidemiologic trends and needs, and working towards universal access to prevention, testing, counselling, treatment, care and support; - supporting an effective response to hiv/aids in priority regions, such as the worst affected eu member states, the eu’s worst affected neighbouring countries and the russian federation and other cis countries, - developing means to reach and support the population groups which are most at risk and most vulnerable to hiv/aids across europe; 2. recalls that the enemy is hiv, rather than hiv carriers;
in writing. - i could not have voted for this report in any way, as it is a clear interference in the internal affairs of ukraine. the association agreement currently under negotiation between the eu and ukraine is intended to establish a free trade area between the two regions, which will in no way be beneficial to the people but to the economic interests of the eu. on the other hand, the eu with this association agreement is imposing a european perspective which is nothing more than the obligation for ukraine to impose internal reforms and systematic and irreversible changes in a whole series of important social, economic, political and institutional areas, which have already been carried out or are being carried out. this is an unacceptable interference in the sovereignty of that country, in my view, and that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the ep addresses, in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the association agreement, the following recommendations to the council, the commission and the eeas: (a) to take the view that a deepening of relations between the eu and ukraine and the fact of offering ukraine a european perspective are of great significance and in the interests of both parties; to recognise ukraine’s aspirations pursuant to article 49 of the treaty on european union, provided that all criteria, including respect for the principles of democracy, human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, are met; (b) to make the necessary progress in order to achieve the rapid initialling of an eu-ukraine association agreement, preferably by the end of 2011 if possible; to ensure at the same time, in line with the demands made in parliament’s resolution of 27 october 2011, that this important initiative within the eastern partnership goes hand in hand with commitments by ukraine to implement the necessary reforms and strengthen democratic values, human rights and the rule of law;
in writing. − in favour. european economic competitiveness is of paramount importance especially with a view to revitalising the internal market. customs has a significant role to play in improving and influencing competitiveness as simplification of customs legislation and promotion of electronic customs stimulate economic growth. in order to play its role to the full extent customs has to be modern, cooperative, responsive and active. simultaneously customs plays an essential role in guaranteeing safety and security efficiently, protecting the intellectual property rights, contributing to the fight against fraud. the rapporteur strongly believes that the cooperation among various stakeholders and institutions in the area of customs (traders, customs authorities, other governmental agencies, the commission and the european parliament) is essential to guarantee that customs fulfil its mission as described above; in particular the rapporteur strongly supports timely and transparent flow of information among all the parties involved.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 1.35 p.m.)
the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the fisheries agreement with morocco is extended. the fishing fleet has nothing to do with this; it is not responsible and does not have to pay the consequences. i am therefore a firm supporter of resolving this situation by giving the go-ahead. i do not agree with those who oppose it, either because of the political question of the sahara or because of the negative results of the fisheries evaluation report. in this respect, i would like to recall that in 2006, when i presented my report on the eu-morocco fisheries agreement, this house was very firm both on the benefits to be derived from the sahara stocks and on the harmful negotiations which have produced the bad results. but i still don't think any of these problems are going to be solved by sending the fleet home now. on the contrary, i think we should look to the future of our fisheries relations with morocco. and, commissioner, we are again in a situation where, less than three months after the end of the extension, we still do not have a negotiating mandate. once again the sector is in a state of uncertainty, but this time it has taken the lead and acted responsibly together with the moroccan fisheries sector and, with the acquiescence of their respective administrations, they have both drawn up an action plan for the future, which was presented to you in brussels last week. that is why mr haglund, on behalf of the alde group, and i, on behalf of my group, have tabled an oral question and a motion for a resolution which look to the future, a future based on new foundations which seek to make up for mistakes made and which have the agreement of all the parties concerned. i only ask that the commission be... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the green group, i am obviously opposed not only to the extension of the current agreement but also to a new agreement, and the reasons have already been mentioned; they are of three kinds: legal, economic and ecological. legally, the question is simple. morocco is negotiating with resources that do not belong to it, and there are two options: either the waters of the saharawi territories are excluded from the negotiations - which has not yet been done - or international law is respected by requiring that this agreement respect the benefits for the local population, but also the wishes, madam commissioner, the wishes of the local population, which no one has yet referred to. from the economic point of view, it is also clear that this is a disaster as an agreement because it does not, in any case, bring any benefit, and it is also an economic waste, and more so in situations such as the one we are in, but ecologically it is even more serious. we are in a situation where agreements should respect a maxim: only exploit levels of overfishing or surplus. in the case of moroccan waters, we are already overfishing with local fisheries, to which we add this overfishing to which we europeans contribute. so three elements to vote against enlargement and a new agreement, which are legal, economic and ecological elements. and for once, i think it would be good if this parliament did not kneel to the pressure and blackmail of the moroccan government and acted accordingly with responsibility and, above all, to guarantee its credibility.
mr president, commissioner, it is clear that something is wrong when today, in the month of december, we are debating an extension that expires in just two months. nevertheless, we are talking about an agreement which is important for the european union and especially for spain, an agreement which cannot serve as an excuse for claims other than strictly fisheries claims and for which i am in favour of extending the agreement, even though the agreement is unsatisfactory in many respects. i have always defended agreements with third countries, and even more so with countries in our neighbourhood and as important as the kingdom of morocco, and it is precisely for this reason that i hope that the extension will be ratified and that a new agreement will be negotiated which is balanced, fair and beneficial for all the signatories and which will allow our fleet to continue to operate. i hope that this agreement will be reached and that it will also be economically viable and not only ensure sustainability and the preservation of resources, but also have positive social and employment consequences for the signatories. i am also a strong advocate of the need to respect and implement the agreements in their entirety, and that is why i consistently questioned the agreement with morocco in the agricultural field and strongly supported it in the fisheries sector. we have nothing against morocco, quite the contrary, but that does not prevent us from demanding respect for the agreements which the citizens we represent deserve. the commission must be given a clear and unequivocal message from this parliament that it must negotiate and negotiate well, without delay and with transparency. remember, bad negotiations always have bad consequences. we have many examples. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue card question. mr president, i believe that when one member state benefits, all the members of this european union benefit.
mr president, we in the socialist group consider it important to approve this extension because it will be the cornerstone of a better agreement. this agreement, which expires on 27 february 2012 (just three months left, as the commissioner said), has been assessed negatively from an economic point of view. however, the importance of the fact that 11 european union countries - i am referring to the question that has just been asked - benefit from this agreement and that 800 european union workers have a job because of it, and that it has created thousands of jobs in morocco, and even in the sahara, has not been appreciated. sustainability as an important part. the ex post report has been discussed. we are asking for scientific data for the next agreement to determine fishing capacity, because the european union, according to that ex-post report, only catches 10% of what is caught. according to the report, it has an invaluable impact. we need a new agreement, madam commissioner, a new improved agreement, a new agreement under the lisbon treaty, a new agreement - as you have said - with the additional requirement of a detailed report on how the agreement is being applied and who the beneficiary population is, on compliance with international law. but, furthermore, the agreement has to be beneficial to both parties. the overall architecture: the european union must give priority to the eu-morocco association agreement; an economic and social dimension to international agreements; solidarity and the strategic sector. europe cannot be left behind on the international scene. the approval of this extension and the next agreement are important.
mr president, the fisheries agreement with morocco is in force because it has been automatically renewed without any objection. what has expired is the protocol setting out fishing opportunities and compensation. after receiving the information, it has been provisionally extended and parliament must now give its consent, in accordance with the rules of the lisbon treaty. the socialist group and i personally are in full support of this for three fundamental reasons: firstly, because of the nature of our relations with morocco, fishing cannot be an exception; secondly, because of the impact that a disruption of activities on all sides could have, especially on the artisanal fleet - which is the most affected - and the workers; and thirdly, because we want to send a positive signal to morocco and to achieve a new protocol that is fair and balanced, that is in favour of the development of sustainable fisheries, and that preserves the rights of the parties and is mutually beneficial.
mr president, sometimes we forget in debates that we are all europeans, all the members of the council and the representatives of the european parliament; we all seek the same thing. we are supposed to be looking for the same thing, which is the progress of the european union and, in this case, the pursuit of a project as far-reaching and as important as the financing of an experimental fusion reactor that can completely change the energy landscape in europe. i now speak as the rapporteur for the european parliament's report on the forthcoming financial perspective. we have already asked in this report for those large projects such as iter, for example, to have their particular accounts within the framework of the next financial perspective, in order to avoid the problems we are having today with iter. the european parliament's proposal would have prevented this discussion and these unilateral statements by the council. i can understand perfectly well the financial constraints facing the member states - how can we not understand them, if we are part of the member states? - but we live in the european institutions and, in the european institutions, the agreements are there to enforce them, and we have come out of a trilogue in which it has become clear that the funding in 2013 of iter cannot be done solely by redeployment in the category corresponding to research and development, but that the rest of the budgetary weapons given by the interinstitutional agreement must be used. we do not prejudge what they are, what they should be, or how much, what we want is to keep that debate open and any kind of unilateral statement, like the one the council has made, is completely contrary to what parliament has already done in the 2012 budget, which is to be reasonable, open and above all open to dialogue with the rest of the institutions.
mr president, iter is one of the most ambitious projects of the european union, not only because of its scientific importance but also because of the amount of investment required. and the european parliament has shown on many occasions how we have supported this project; we have always been at the disposal of both the council and the commission to find the best solutions to this financing problem which has been put on the table, and we have had several disagreements with the council, but it seems that at last we have found an agreement. with a lot of will and, above all, with a lot of accounting engineering, in the negotiations on the 2012 budget and in that trilogue of last december 1st, we have found a way to finance that extra 1.3 billion euros so that iter can go ahead. but it seems that there are six countries that want to give this agreement a further twist and have signed a unilateral declaration so that these 360 million for 2013 will be financed by cuts in other programmes. first they wanted to cut the seventh framework programme and parliament prevented it because it was clearly linked to that europe 2020 strategy. you remember that strategy? because sometimes when we talk about money, they seem to forget that there is such a strategy. and now they want to propose cuts again, or rather demand them. and where are we gonna cut from? does the program matter? it seems the council does care. the fact is that its strategy is not to put in one more euro: that is the only strategy the council knows how to defend. and the only one we will defend is that no programme can be cut to finance iter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i say this with all my heart, because since i have been in this parliament i have been faithful to my commitment to the victims in defence of their rights, and one of the fundamental rights of any victim is to be properly protected. my commitment extends to all citizens, because we are all potential victims of crime and we all need to be able to live in a world and in a european area of freedom, justice and security. with our votes in favour we will be legislating to make life easier for the victims, who will henceforth feel equally protected in any country of the union and without the need to initiate a new judicial procedure for each displacement. in short, we will facilitate the movement of victims and curb the movement of their aggressors, which i consider to be a great step forward and which i am proud to have taken as rapporteur of this report. it is time to stop allowing crime to cross borders and endanger our lives. we have the right and the duty to protect ourselves and this instrument will do that. despite the difficulties and the not always rosy path we have travelled in these two years of negotiations, i want to thank the polish presidency today for having skillfully steered the negotiations forward and also the commission, which thanks to the vision of mrs reding in presenting the legislative package on victims and an additional regulation in civil matters, has finally made the council not doubt the desirability of supporting the european protection order, while opening the door to wider legislation on the rights of all victims of crime and support for them, on which i am already working with great hope. i would like to thank my co-commander, mrs romero, and also the secretariat. when we go back to our countries and people ask us 'what are you doing in europe?' because they see our work as distant and incomprehensible, this time i will be able to tell them that at least we have created an instrument, which we have approved in this parliamentary session, which will protect so many people who suffer violence. i offer this future law to so many women killed by sexist violence, to so many innocent people who suffer from human trafficking with no way to escape their aggressors, to so many helpless minors, to victims of terrorism who live with terror in their bones and who flee from organized crime, and to so many who do not know where to go for fear of being persecuted. today we have taken another big step in defending and protecting those who deserve it most. and i would like to end my speech with three words that are the beacon of my work and my life: freedom, justice and dignity.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive on the european protection order for victims of violence is implemented. i too would like to thank the polish presidency and all those who have helped us to see the light at last. we knew about their difficulty when the spanish presidency, together with 11 other member states, presented the initiative in january 2010. it's taken us two years. we knew that violence against women in particular, but also against all the weak, is still considered taboo, that we do not know any official european figures for it and that it was therefore difficult to demonstrate its necessity and urgency: ignoring the data, ignoring crime and its prevention. the same thing happened with the directive on trafficking in women, on paedophilia. there are no official figures: there are data that governments refuse to put on the table, but no one doubts that there is human trafficking and that there is pedophilia. for this reason, the commission and the council were asked at the same time to set up an observatory which could be based at the european institute for gender equality or the european union agency for fundamental rights. so far we have only one survey, the results of which will not be known until 2013. it's not enough, mrs reding. the figures we have are not official, but if we talk about 25% of women who are victims of violence in europe, we are talking about a serious problem; if we talk about 2 500 women who are murdered, we are talking about a serious problem. can we know how many women are reporting in europe? how many have access to a protective order? how many are killed? can we know how many human beings, how many children are victims of violence that occurs in domestic terror? it is so difficult to convince the member states, but at least we have this directive here today. we all ratified it after a long process in which many resistance were overcome. if we were in the commercial sphere and not in the civil and criminal sphere, the solutions would undoubtedly have been quick, but it is important that this is the first directive to be made in the line of preventive and reparative justice, and that it is intended mainly for women victims of violence. thousands of european women today look to this directive with hope: the women's associations who have fought for it and those who suffer harassment and ill-treatment and expect a lot from us. and it is a directive which protects the free movement of victims, so that there is no double victimization, double proceedings and double interrogation. protection will finally be without borders. now we're at the beginning of another stage. we hope that the member states will transpose it promptly. but just as important as transposition is the monitoring that the directive requires, the evaluation of its application so that we know the scope of the first stage of this directive. but with this we only start fighting against violence. it is now necessary, madam commissioner, for women in europe to speak out, to lose their fear, to defend their dignity, to be able to become citizens. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union does not even mention this torture, this murder in private; this possibility is not in the charter of fundamental rights. there is the possibility of torture by state institutions, but not by someone you give affection to. and that's the terrible thing about these murders that happen in the darkest part of the home. so this is the real message we're sending: abuse will not go unpunished, crimes can be prevented. we'll have numbers of aggressors and thousands of women who can breathe in peace.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, the european protection order is undoubtedly a long-awaited, well-worked text, and at the same time, finally ready to be voted on. it wasn't easy to get here; it was too complicated. but i want to first of all to celebrate the initiative of the spanish presidency to launch this process, then the work that my colleagues jiménez-becerril and romero have done together from the committee on women's rights and gender equality and from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, showing that article 51 coordination is fruitful - i hope it is also the case with the victims package - and also, finally, to celebrate not only the work that we have before us, but also the challenge to show that this is one more step, but, as mrs romero said, only one more step: by no means the final one. there are many more, because it is not acceptable that today it is the victims who have to suffer and pay even more to have the right to be recognised throughout the european union.
madam president, victims are never happy, but some days at least they get some news that comforts them. today is one of them because we have finally adopted the first part of the european protection order, which concerns matters relating to criminal matters. the council's express declaration that the negotiation, agreement and adoption of the proposal for a directive extending the application of the directive to civil matters, presented by the commission on 18 may, is a priority, completes the legal instrument we are adopting today. firstly, because it overcomes the main obstacle which this initiative has encountered in its development, but above all because the risk faced by victims throughout europe and the measures taken to protect them are adapted to the area without frontiers in which we move, which is what matters. victims, who threaten and attack, do not understand the legal subtleties and our job is to avoid them in order to make europe an area of freedom, security and democracy for all. that is the message we are sending to the european citizenry today. this order speaks of security, of individuals, of people. it has been extremely scrupulous with the legal order, so much so that solving the legal problems and not lowering the standards of freedom has been the main obstacle to being able to put this order into operation. finally, i congratulate the rapporteurs on their tenacity and their commitment and i am pleased that this instrument, which was originally designed to deal with some particularly serious forms of violence, such as violence against women, is going to cover the problems of protection faced by all kinds of victims, especially those threatened by terrorism and organised crime. finally, i hope that no state will exhaust the time available for the entry into force of this regulation.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i am a happy commissioner today because we have finally made it. we have broken through with a text which is legally sound and which is a great help to women in those 11 member states where the protection order is dealt with under criminal law. now it is very important that we get the other half of the work done and to complete this directive with the legislative instrument i have introduced for civil and administrative proceedings. it is also very important that we do not start giving out information to women before we have completed our work, because there is the danger that some women will think they are protected when they travel abroad when they are not. so let us complete all our work. the moment we have the necessary coverage for all women who are in danger when they go outside their member states then we should, together with the member states, launch an information campaign, which i think will be very important. it is also one of those elements which can, i think, very usefully go into the european year of citizens, where we can explain to the female citizens who are suffering what we have done in order to protect them when they utilise their right to free movement. i agree with mr gustafsson, chair of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, that it is not enough to stop now at the protection order. we have to go a step further. that is also one of the reasons why i put the comprehensive victims package on the table, setting basic rights for victims in criminal proceedings. here i have put emphasis on the special position of women in this procedure – for instance the right to be heard by a female police officer or the right not to meet the accused in court. because that is the case it would also be very good if the committee on women’s rights and gender equality could invest time in working on this victims package. another element which is going to come up during next year – and this is something we have already been speaking about for some time because it is a despicable crime – is female genital mutilation (fgm). although we know it happens, we do not have the real figures. at the moment the vilnius institute is collecting data on how many women and girls there are in europe – we are speaking about our territory here in europe – who are victims of fgm or who could become victims of fgm. that will come up in the spring and then we should draw together the conclusions for possible action. this is only the beginning of the work which we have to do in order to make europe a safe place for women and to reduce the number of victims.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i think it is very important to monitor the application of the european protection order closely. we are talking about reporting, but reporting must be followed by real protection. we need people: we can pass good laws, but if we do not provide countries with the right means, victims will not trust and will continue to keep silent for fear of being attacked again. it is therefore necessary that judges and police officers have the training and the means to do their jobs well. that's true justice. so many victims complain that law enforcement is not meeting their needs. it is therefore necessary that we join forces, that we insist on statistics to see how this instrument works, which i believe is really necessary. i ask the member states to make an effort to understand and implement this order because that is what we have been working for and we believe we have made it clear. i believe that from now on the doors of europe to the rights of victims are wide open, that women and men can rely on this and other instruments to bring victims to light and to stop those who frighten them. we will tell the victims with our voices here today and with our votes tomorrow that we in the european parliament will never forget their rights, the support that society owes them and, most importantly, justice. because i tell you that it is justice that keeps all victims alive, and it doesn't matter what crime was committed against them.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to ask the commissioner, in this last part-session, not to be satisfied with the legislative measures we are pushing. the legislative package on victims which he has presented is very important, and the rights of victims are very important, but we also need common action against this private terrorism and against this violence which is taking place in all european countries. so first we need the data. so not only should the survey be speeded up, but also the possibility for member states to provide their data and we can finally have official figures on violence in europe in eurostat, and promote common action, promote a common action plan, not only for judges and police, and for the training of this staff, which is very important, but for so many preventive actions that some member states are successfully implementing. let us see if it is possible with this joint action plan to really create a europe without violence, where there is zero tolerance for violence and where we can say that there is protection without borders and a different europe.
i am not going to go into the details of the amendments, but i would like to say that i am not going to vote against the amendments, because i am not sure that they are in line with the commission's proposal. we cannot therefore vote against it. but this is not the directive we promised in tampere and we promised for ten years in the green paper; this is not the equal rights directive: there are still very important exclusions; there are still very important exceptions to labour and social security rights; decisions are still left to the member states which are decisions which should not be discretionary but should be regulated. it is therefore a step forward, but it is not enough; it is far from the ambition we should have as europeans. we have seen too much of the 'short-term' view of the accountant, the selfish view of the bureaucrat, the view of those who see the short term and not the long term of the great opportunity we have had to fix a framework directive once and for all and leave no one out and no rights out. again it will be and again we will make a just law.
mr president, i would first like to thank commissioner reding and the commission for the effort they have made to speed up this package of procedural guarantees, which has been stalled for a long time and, until the swedish presidency has drawn up the road map, has not been able to be put into effect. obviously, a country shows its degree of civilization by how it treats suspects. that is why we think that this proposal we are discussing here today is very important, and i would like to thank birgit sippel for the effort she has made to introduce into this proposal for a directive certain elements which are essential for the suspect, for the charter of rights, that is to say, to know what a suspect is accused of and to establish, therefore, the right to silence and the right to know the essential elements of which he is accused, in addition, of course, to medical assistance, etc. but what i'm particularly interested in highlighting in this speech is the birth of that right, because that was the debate on the right to interpretation and translation, and that's going to be the debate on the legal aid of a suspect. when is that right born? when the person suspects that he is accused of something, and it is very important that this right is respected and that the birth of the right arises at the same time that the person is aware that he is a suspect.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, it is very rare that in this house all political groups from the right to the left and the centre agree upon a measure. this seems to be the case on this one so i am very glad that tomorrow it looks like an overwhelming majority will endorse the decision, as was the case in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the sooner this directive is adopted and comes into force, the better it will be. of course its full transposition in all member states also needs to be done in a very quick way and it will be a strong message, a message that europe is serious about protecting citizens’ rights. i know that most of you who have spoken today are already working on the third measure of the procedural rights road map, the access to a lawyer, and on the right to communicate upon detention. i am confident that the parliament will help the commission on this subject because there are some member states who are objecting to the presence of a lawyer. i am counting on the help of the european parliament in order to strike a fair balance in this proposal between the rights of the defence and the need to conduct criminal investigations effectively. i think that this is in the text. if it has to be improved, then i am in the hands of parliament in order to make a better text, but a text there should be. so thank you for endorsing this one, thank you in advance for voting in favour of it tomorrow, and thank you for helping me with the next steps.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday, at 12 noon.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 150).
mr president, while the european union announces that it will devote 80 billion euros to research, the government of the valencian community in spain is withdrawing funding, until it is exhausted, from the prince felipe centre for biomedical research, a centre made possible by the european union's structural funds. i denounce this here because it becomes an indecent paradox, because while there is not five million for this research centre, for its cancer research programmes, for alzheimer's, for parkinson's, there is fifteen million for formula one and three and a half million for a golf championship. perhaps this parliament should point out to the states that the crisis is not a justification for anything, let alone for inhuman government action, and that austerity certainly does not have to be the door that allows politicians to commit indecencies. these are the paradoxes we cannot tolerate, and the european union would have to echo them if this kind of issue, in some states and in some communities, were not to pass.
yes, mr watson, but i imagine you don't want me or you to get into a fight with commissioner dalli. in any case, we will ask him to submit to the test himself, but without entering into a competition with the parliamentarians.
mr president, the portuguese government has just introduced a compulsory toll on the motorway linking the portuguese region of the algarve with the spanish region of andalusia, which has caused unanimous dissatisfaction and rejection on both the portuguese and spanish sides, since it is a road heavily travelled by europeans from both nations and from third countries, who use this area of privileged nature and climate as a place of habitual residence or holiday. the measure has caused a surprise because the construction of this motorway was financed with european funds, and also a very negative effect on transport, on trade, on tourism, which is why the president of the junta de andalucía, josé antonio griñán, has expressed his displeasure and protest. we urge the european commission, the new spanish and portuguese governments, both of the epp, to repeal this measure or at least to take action to compensate the small and mediumsized enterprises and workers affected.
the following is a brief presentation of the report by mr robert sturdy, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on barriers to trade and investment [2011/2115 (ini) ] (a7-0365/2011).
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first i would like to thank the committee on international trade and most of all the rapporteur robert sturdy for taking up the paramount issue of trade barriers, especially non-tariff barriers, which european companies encounter on third-country markets. you are very well aware that the commission has highlighted this in its first annual trade and investment barrier report in march this year and this report goes right to the heart of the enforcement agenda of our trade policy. your report contributed to increasing the political dimension of this matter and we thank you for this. we have taken good note of your suggestions, and when i say ‘we’, i speak on behalf of my colleague karel de gucht, of course, who is the commissioner responsible for this file. i can assure you that the commission will continue to pursue the removal of unjustified non-tariff barriers through regulatory cooperation with, in particular but not solely, our strategic partners. as the report rightly points out we will of course fully respect the right of our partners to establish their own levels of public policy protection in the areas of health, safety and the environment. i will mention just one example of regulatory cooperation, of which the commission informed parliament at the last meeting, on 29 november 2011. i am speaking about the transatlantic economic council in washington where the united states and the european union agreed on strengthening cooperation in a number of regulatory areas; those include e-vehicles, nanotechnology, and information and computer technology. on the question of the american jobs act, the commission is following this very closely and you will certainly be aware that some of the most worrying elements fortunately did not pass the us legislative process. we are also using our free trade agreements to address regulatory barriers. the agreement with korea is a very good example of this approach because it contains extensive rules on sectoral regulatory issues: cars, electronics and medical devices. in the recent meeting of the trade committee established under the agreement, the korean minister and our commissioner could achieve important progress on some of the outstanding regulatory issues related to cars. the importance of regulatory issues and the interplay between internal and external market opening will also be one of the subjects discussed at a high-level conference which the commission is organising on 20 january in brussels. we have taken good note of your suggestions on government procurement, investment and export restrictions, all of which are very important building sites for a 21st century trade policy for the european union. as you know very well the removal of trade barriers is and remains a top priority for our trade policy. the commission’s next trade and investment barriers report will come out in march 2012 and it will build on the recommendations set out in your report, so the fact that this report is now on the table, mr sturdy, is very important. it will be an inspiration and a support for the collective work of the commission, the member states and parliament.
this closes this spot. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday, at 12 noon.
mr president, i want my first words to be that in an emergency situation, the intergovernmental treaty was the only solution. but this treaty implies a redistribution of sovereignty, a new social pact, which, to be legitimate, needs a greater role for the commission and parliament. what is the purpose of these agreements? two things, as president van rompuy has said: firstly, to convince the markets that we want to continue together, that this is not a fixed exchange rate system that can be reversed at any time, and secondly, to stabilise the markets. in the medium term, i agree that fiscal union was absolutely essential because part of this crisis is the result of government excesses, but it is not just government excesses that are responsible for the crisis. ireland and spain had healthy public accounts and yet they are also in difficulty, because there was a lack of competitiveness, because there was excessive private borrowing. that is why i attach great importance to the correction of macroeconomic imbalances, which has gone a little overlooked, and i attach great importance to the issue of growth, which has also gone overlooked. the doubts about the stabilization of the markets are greater. i agree that we have corrected the mistake of private participation: it was a mistake; we have done it right now. we have made some progress in the rescue mechanisms, but i doubt whether the resources will be sufficient and whether we will have the means to finance them effectively. there are doubts about leverage in the interim mechanism and there are doubts about the permanent mechanism. i, mr barroso, invite you to continue with the bond basket, which i think would be a good solution to finance this fund, would overcome the fragmentation of the debt market and would return sovereign debt to its status as a risk-free asset. the european central bank will only act if it believes that the summit is safe; we shall see in the coming days whether it does or not. but if it does not, we will have to find alternative formulas, because we cannot go into the crisis with one arm tied behind our back. if the states have to guarantee possible losses, let them, but let us find a way of stabilizing the markets, which are not doing well today, by the way.
mr. president, nothing has been enough. the council has been in session for the last three years, each time at the expense of the note that the financial markets decide to put on the decisions taken on the following monday, and it turns out that the markets continue to suspend the decisions of the european council because none of the results, so far, have seemed satisfactory to them. nothing has been enough and you continue to fail in the endeavor. and the reason is simple, and it is that it continues to abound in a strategy that continues to be biased, insufficient and biased. the commission's proposal is partial, because it focuses on austerity, but it ignores growth and the need for investment to create jobs and the role that the european central bank and the issuing of eurobonds have to play in this. inadequate, because what is called fiscal union is only budgetary union, budgetary coordination, but it ignores the revenue dimension and the correction of fiscal and tax inequalities in the european union. but above all, it is biased, because it is an intergovernmental agreement which has a very difficult fit with the provisions for the amendment of the treaties contained in the treaty of lisbon itself, which made this european parliament, which represents 500 million citizens, the most powerful parliament in the history of the european union because, not without reason, it represents 500 million people. finally, a parliament with an ordinary legislative procedure which must be decisive in any prospect of reform of the treaties.
mr president, i think that what we politicians have to deal with is the unforeseen, and i think that the european council dealt with the unforeseen, and i think it did well - and i say this alongside my friend atkins - in not giving in to mr cameron's blackmail, and i think it did well also in seeking an alternative solution, which is the intergovernmental treaty. sometimes god writes straight with crooked lines. we have an intergovernmental treaty which will be easier to pass than an amendment to article 48 and which will enter into force sooner. and what is at stake at the moment - and i am addressing this to the president of the european council, to my friend herman van rompuy - is that this should be done quickly and that the european parliament should be involved in this exercise. that seems essential, because, taking up the image of the lunch that mr verhofstadt used earlier, i believe that if the european council does that lunch without the european parliament, there will be no dessert.
in writing. − parliament has today rubberstamped something that is a bad deal for eu taxpayers. nuclear fusion is a technology that will not be commercially viable before 2050, if at all. instead of wasting more public funds on the runaway iter budget, the eu should pull the plug and focus on funding safe and sustainable energy technologies that can deliver a return in the short-term, like energy efficiency and renewables. under this deal, iter will remain a ticking budgetary time bomb, with a decision on how the eur 360 million should be funded in the 2013 budget having been postponed. there is a real risk that the council will again push for this funding to be included in the eu’s research budget, which would come at the expense of green technologies like renewables and energy efficiency. the greens believe that no more public funding should be wasted on this project.
in writing. − in favour. the commission proposal for mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) is based on point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement (iia) of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, which allows such a mobilisation within an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. the conditions of eligibility to the fund are detailed in council regulation no 2012/2002 establishing the eusf, and it has to be recalled that the objective of the fund is to repair infrastructure and that it is a tool of refinancing, and must not compensate private damages. the direct damages in murcia, spain, have been estimated by the commission, based on calculations provided by the spanish authorities, at a total of eur 842.8 million. in the case of veneto, italy, the direct damages have been estimated at eur 3717 million. the total amount for aid proposed in dab 7/2011 is eur 37 979 875.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it provides the highest possible level of aid, in accordance with the legal possibilities, reaching eur 21 million in the case of lorca and about eur 17 million in the case of veneto. i find it particularly interesting that the mobilization is taking place with such energy and determination in the times of recession and crisis in which we live, which have led to cuts of all kinds in the public budgets of many of the member states. i hope that this money will continue to help the people of the veneto and the lorca to recover their activities and their rhythm and ways of life so that these tragedies will be, in a few months, just a sad memory.
in writing. − in favour. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in favour of spain and italy on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement (iia) of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. the iia allows the mobilisation of the solidarity fund within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. in parallel to the proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund in favour of spain and italy, the commission has presented a draft amending budget (dab no 7/2011 of 21 november 2011) in order to enter in the 2011 budget the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations as foreseen in point 26 of the iia.
in writing. − in favour. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. according to the provisions of point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and of article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million, drawn from the margin under the global expenditure ceiling from the previous year, and/or from the cancelled commitment appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to heading 1b. the appropriate amounts are entered into the budget as a provision as soon as the sufficient margins and/or cancelled commitments have been identified. as concerns the procedure, in order to activate the fund the commission, in case of a positive assessment of an application, presents to the budgetary authority a proposal for mobilisation of the fund and, at the same time, a corresponding request for transfer. in parallel, a trilogue could be organised in order to find an agreement on the use of the fund and the amounts required. the trilogue can take a simplified form.
in writing. − in favour. ensuring that common minimum standards in criminal proceedings are in place would better protect eu citizens’ fundamental rights and also help overcome the difficulties encountered in the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition in criminal matters, because there may be a lack of trust between judicial authorities. following the failure of the adoption of a horizontal legal instrument on procedural rights in criminal proceedings (2004 commission proposal for a framework decision), the council opted for a step by step approach and on 30 november 2009 adopted a roadmap on procedural rights inviting the commission to table a series of legislative proposals corresponding to the measures listed in the roadmap. the proposal for a directive on the right to information in criminal matters presented by the european commission in july 2010 is the second step of the list of measures contained in the roadmap on procedural rights. it aims to set common minimum standards as regards the right to information in criminal proceedings throughout the european union. the first step, on the right to interpretation and translation, is a directive adopted on 8 october 2010.
in writing. − the draft directive on the european protection order is based on an initiative of twelve eu member states. the parliament received this initiative on 22 january 2010. once adopted, the directive will specify measures that allow the executing state to continue the protection of a person against a criminal act by another person which may endanger his life, physical or psychological integrity, dignity, personal liberty or sexual integrity. the ultimate goal is to avoid new criminal acts and to reduce the consequences of previous criminal acts and enhance victims’ protection.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament approved the council position at first reading, having regard to the following: council position at first reading; the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 9 july 2008; the opinion of the committee of the regions of 18 june 2008; parliament’s position at first reading on the commission proposal to parliament and the council; article 294(7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union; the common deliberation of the committee responsible, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and the associated committee, the committee on employment and social affairs, on 5 december 2011; rule 72 of parliament’s rules of procedure; and the recommendation for second reading of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. − in favour. having regard to the council position at first reading (12607/2/2011 – c7-0370/2011); having regard to the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 17 march 2010; having regard to its position at first reading on the commission proposal to the council (com(2009) 0477); having regard to article 294(7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union; having regard to rule 72 of its rules of procedure; having regard to the recommendation for second reading of the committee on fisheries (a7-0392/2011), the european parliament approves the council position at first reading.
in writing. − in favour. having regard to the council position at first reading (10765/1/2011 – c7-0323/2011); having regard to the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 15 july 2009; having regard to its position at first reading on the commission proposal to parliament and the council (com(2009) 0083); having regard to article 294(7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union; having regard to rule 66 of its rules of procedure; having regard to the recommendation for second reading of the committee on legal affairs (a7-0393/2011), the european parliament adopts its position at second reading and instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the national parliaments.
in writing. − in favour. as a consequence of the financial and budgetary crisis, some member states are facing budgetary constraints which might prevent them from fulfilling their commitments in co-financed community programs (structural and cohesion funds, eafrd and european fisheries fund). these member states are at the risk of losing the community support through eafrd unless they provide proof of spending matching national funds, as defined in article 70 of regulation (ec) no 1698/2005, at the latest 2 years after the year initially foreseen for the payment (n+2 rule). against this background, the commission proposes to temporarily increase the union’s maximum co-financing rate for programmes running in member states that are subject to support by the efsm (council regulation (eu) no 407/2010, currently greece, ireland and portugal) and the balance of payment facility for non-euro zone member states (council regulation (ec) no 332/2002, currently latvia and romania). this temporary increase in community co-financing, provided on application from the member state concerned, would reduce the amount of matching national funds needed in budget years 2011 and 2012. it would thus help to make programmed funds available for the rural economy and contribute to an overall economic recovery in these member states.
in writing. − abstention. the rapporteur has acknowledged that his main position was to fight protectionism in all its forms. he believes that open and fair trade is the best way to ensure and maintain a level playing field for european businesses competing at the global level. he maintains that he has always been a strong supporter of the multilateral trading system, and defends the rules established within the wto framework as the best means to ensure equitable treatment for all global trading partners. we greens agree on some important points of the proposal. however, we would have preferred to vote down some of the recitals (g, l, m, n and o). we tried and we failed. so, in the end we have abstained.
mr president, mrs ashton, you have mentioned among your achievements instruments to improve the planning and effectiveness of security in the horn of africa. the european tuna fleet operates in the indian ocean, and the basque fleet and, more specifically, the bermean fleet are of great importance. these vessels are being attacked and hijacked by pirates and have been under the protection of operation atlanta since this house passed a resolution to that effect last year. now they have problems because they cannot take heavy weapons on the ships to go better protected, because it is not authorized by the african authorities. i would therefore like to ask you what progress has been made in improving the safety of european and basque freezer tuna vessels in the indian ocean in the agreements you have mentioned?
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, first of all, can i thank everyone who has participated in this debate and say that the messages that have been given, very loudly and clearly, will indeed be passed through, not just from myself but, of course, in the meeting with the presidents. we will be raising the elections, that is very clear, and i want to say first of all to mr kelam that we are following the magnitsky case very closely. it is indeed, as he described it, very troubling. i also think it is important to let honourable members know that we will be meeting with the eu-russia civil society forum on thursday as well and that will give us an opportunity to discuss with them recent events and more generally the relationship between us, and we always discuss the international obligations that we have when we meet at the summit. my staff have met with former prime minister kasyanov, who is here again, and of course i met him in july and recognise that he is here with us this evening. in all our discussions with russia there are a number of issues that continue to be raised of which, of course, georgia is clearly one, and in our foreign policy discussions the particular points that honourable members have made are indeed part of that. on iran, yes, mr belder, you are right to raise the fact that this for me is a big and major issue and a great deal of my time is taken up with working to see how we can move forward on this. russia is part of the e3+3 and works very collaboratively with us, with me, in order to try and find ways in which we can persuade iran to turn away from the issue of acquiring nuclear weapons, which i think all honourable members are very concerned about. when we talk too about the common neighbourhood, as mr vigenin called it, we discuss the issues of transnistria and of nagorno-karabakh and, as i have indicated earlier in this debate, it is very important that we see some progress there. i was quite concerned when i was in both azerbaijan and armenia at how tense the situation is. russia could play a part in helping to reduce that and through the minsk group to find a solution to it. i think the points that have been raised about ensuring that we show that we take democracy seriously and expect russia to as well are very important. as for ms sinclaire, i meant no offence at all; i merely turned round and said, ‘i am sorry she is not in the chamber’.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next point is also extremely important and of the gravest urgency. this is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria (2011/2880 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, as you indicated, this is an extremely serious issue. honourable members, since we discussed the situation in syria last october the brutal repression has continued. the situation is dramatic and particularly worrying in homs. as honourable members will have seen, the un reports the number of victims has reached 5 000 people – and this may well be a conservative estimate. the situation is totally unacceptable. the brutal repression of civilians has to stop. assad must listen to his people, his neighbours, to the arab partners, to europe and to the world. we all have the same message: he should stop the violence to his own people. he should let that transition get underway. thousands remain in detention. the recent report of the un international commission of inquiry indicates that crimes against humanity were committed by the security forces. some people in syria are taking up arms to defend themselves and the risk of widespread armed confrontation is increasing. against this complex and difficult background, we have ratcheted up our sanctions and we have done whatever we can to build a growing international consensus to isolate the regime. i have been in regular contact with the arab league secretary-general, al-araby and hosted him at the latest foreign affairs council. the arab league has our full support in their demands on the syrian regime, including the immediate cessation of violence, withdrawal of military from cities, and the granting of humanitarian and media access. we have also backed their plan to dispatch an observer mission to protect civilians, offering our assistance, and have welcomed their decision to impose sanctions. regional leadership is key and should continue. the role of turkey, with which i have been in regular contact, and its decision to impose sanctions is also crucial as we seek to weaken the regime. we have worked hard on the international scene, stepping up contacts with key international partners to isolate further the regime and its supporters. i have discussed this with secretary clinton in washington, with prime minister lavrov in moscow, with the un secretary-general ban ki-moon and with foreign minister davutoglu when i met him in bonn while he was visiting there. in the un, successful efforts by the eu and member states led to a resolution in the third committee of the general assembly. a special session of the geneva human rights council was called at my initiative and a new resolution was adopted with unprecedented support in early december, establishing a special rapporteur for human rights in syria. now all members of the un security council must assume their responsibilities in relation to the situation in syria. the eu and its member states will continue to lead the efforts for a strong and united message. the syrian opposition has grown more active and is better organised, certainly over the last few months. like honourable members, i have met this morning with a syrian human rights activist and i know the role that this parliament has played in engaging with those activists and encouraging them and their work. i have met with other leaders of the syrian national council and welcomed the ongoing efforts by the syrian opposition to try and establish a united platform and to work for a shared vision for the future of syria and the transition to a democratic system. we all agree on the importance of a strong and inclusive opposition political platform taking in all religious and ethnic communities. it is essential that the syrian opposition maintains and develops its clear commitment to a peaceful and non-sectarian approach. the coordination with opposition on the ground to set out plans for the transition is of the utmost importance. on the sanctions track, our strong response to the syrian regime’s policy of repression has been further reinforced. further individuals and entities linked to the regime have been added to the assets freeze and travel ban: now 86 individuals and 30 entities are on the list. at the beginning of this month, new measures were adopted to strengthen and complement the existing sanctions. in the oil sector, we have added a ban on the export of key technologies and equipment. in the financial sector, we have expanded the prohibitions on contacts with syrian banks and we have also established a ban on the export of monitoring software and equipment in the telecommunications sector. but despite the efforts of everyone, the syrian regime has remained defiant. none of the opportunities offered by the arab league have yet been accepted. we think that they need to comply fully with the arab plan of action. but they want to find excuses and dilute the effectiveness of an observer mission but the arab league i am pleased to say remains strong in their position. let me conclude with a word on the humanitarian situation. i believe it is increasingly worrying. conditions are worsening in the places most badly hit by the violent repression and armed confrontation. these include electricity cuts, water supplies, shortage of basic commodities in the areas most affected such as baba amr, a quarter in homs. most recently, a systematic denial of access has made it impossible to independently assess the situation. we are particularly concerned about the consistent reports of abuse related to the harassment of medical personnel and difficulties for wounded victims to safely access emergency health care. we have to assume that the information provided is correct, in the absence of free and unimpeded access for aid agencies to independently assess and respond to the most urgent needs. dg echo (european community humanitarian office) is closely monitoring the situation from damascus and was able to carry out a field mission in october. the icrc (international committee of the red cross) continues to negotiate access to detainees. we have made it clear that we are ready to provide emergency assistance should humanitarian needs be confirmed. we are also recognising the vulnerability of syrian refugees hosted by neighbouring countries, particularly turkey, jordan and lebanon, and we are ready to support these refugees if the host countries request our help. we have made that knowledge available to them. finally, i call on the syrian authorities to allow this humanitarian access without restriction and across the country, so that syrians who are in need can receive immediate assistance. i hope that we will see action in the security council and that all members will take their responsibilities, respond to this and respond to what the un commissioner for human rights has said, with a great sense of urgency.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam high representative and vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, as mrs ashton has said, the situation in syria is deteriorating day by day, at a very high cost in human lives. you referred to the figures put forward by the united nations high commissioner for human rights: more than four thousand people, of whom one thousand belong to the security forces, which is a harbinger of a bloody civil war in the country. the united states, the european council, the arab league, the gulf cooperation council, the third committee of the united nations, the council of foreign ministers of the european union have all condemned this situation, but i believe, mrs ashton, that the time has come to turn words into action, because condemnation alone cannot stop this situation. on the economic front, what can we do? you have said it very well, mrs ashton: to put into effect the economic sanctions we have introduced, to stop imports of oil from syria into the european union, to support the decisions of the arab league and turkey. on the political level, firstly, to support this deployment, which the arab league has called for on the ground; secondly, to strengthen relations with the syrian national council - and i would like to ask you, mrs ashton, what your opinion is on the french initiative to create a humanitarian corridor protected by international troops; and, finally, to obtain a more forceful un resolution by overcoming the reluctance of some permanent members of the security council, such as china and russia, whose position is absolutely unjustifiable, along the lines of resolutions 1970 and 1973, which, in the case of libya, allowed the criminal violence of a government against its people to be overcome.
mr president, i want to follow the line my colleague el khadraoui has just drawn, because it is true that what has been done so far is not enough. neither embargoes nor sanctions are enough. the syrian regime continues to massacre its people and there is no choice but to continue working so that the army retreats to its barracks and the population is not massacred. i therefore believe that we must continue to work on this line too. but i wanted to insist that we have to strengthen the democratic opposition; it is true that they are activists, but we have to give prominence to the syrian national council, regardless of who is part of it. this syrian national council is a platform that has a lot of representation, not only outside but also inside syria, and we have to give it that capacity for dialogue so that it is the one that best tells us what is happening there and in what sense the international community and the european parliament can support those efforts, because these efforts have... (the president cut the speaker off)
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like to thank all those who have taken part in this extremely important debate, where we have looked at how we can best support the people of syria. i just want to deal with a few of the issues that were raised. i will begin with what was said by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra at the beginning and to reassure honourable members of the things that we are trying to do. we have strong economic sanctions, we keep them under constant review and we ratchet them up in order to try to put on as much pressure as possible. we hope that the new sanctions that the arab league are going to put on will also have a strong effect in order to make the regime realise what they must do. that does include an oil embargo. we worked closely with the arab league. that is why we invited secretary-general al-araby to come to the foreign affairs council. we are supporting them in any way we can as they think about how to get monitors to do their deployment on the ground. so we have already made it clear that we will support them in any way that it is possible. the idea of a humanitarian corridor has been dropped. some ideas come and they are looked at and examined and then it is decided that they are not going to work in the way that we wanted. therefore, that idea is no longer on the table. it is very important – as a number of honourable members have said – that we continue to work in the security council to try to get a stronger, unanimous view on what needs to happen. indeed i did raise this when i travelled to china and i raised this with the foreign minister of russia when i was in moscow very recently. we raised the problem with syria – the difficulties to the people of syria – in all of our international meetings. i would just say to ms de keyser, we do meet with the opposition. we have met those who have come forward and asked to meet with us. we do not discriminate about whom we meet. we talk to them all, but we give the same messages about the need to be inclusive and to be supportive of the human rights of everybody who is concerned about what is happening in their country. we have made it very clear that al-assad must go, but i must correct something that ms schaake and ms flautre both said. it was not cyprus that blocked turkey coming to the foreign affairs council. this is totally and utterly untrue. what happened was that we were asked, we discussed the matter and i invited the secretary-general of the arab league. he wished to come on an institution-to-institution meeting. the previous week i had met with the foreign minister of turkey – foreign minister davutoglu – and i proposed at the foreign affairs council, on the day that the arab league were coming, that at the next meeting we should invite foreign minister davutoglu. i was supported in that by everyone, including cyprus. so please, for the record, it really is important that you understand that it was not cyprus blocking. i did not invite them because in discussion with the arab league they wanted to meet institution-to-institution. therefore i have invited the foreign minister of turkey, whom i meet and discuss these issues with a great deal. i am looking forward very much to seeing him when he comes in january. it is important, as everyone has said, to involve all groups. i am glad, mr karim, that you appreciate the ‘no disconnect strategy’ that has been announced today by neelie kroes. we are working very closely with her on that. that will be important because of the significance of technology, which a number of honourable members have raised as well. we will continue to meet with all of the groups. mr belder, we do meet with the syrian national council. i have already met with them. it is not just member states who meet with them, though i encourage member states to meet with opposition parties and opposition leaders in order to get the breadth of our experience of what is happening and to look for ways in which we can support people more effectively. we are supporting the arab league, mr arlacchi, in its efforts to try to move the situation on and to persuade the regime to understand what it has to do. we are very clear that al-assad should go. we have made it very clear for some months that, frankly, if you behave in this way, if you kill your people, you have lost the rights for leadership. the important thing is to try to work with all our partners to put the pressure on. i just want to echo again the importance of getting the un security council to now move on this. we will do everything we can, but we actually need international partners to really push forward with us on this, in order that we can get the maximum effect.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr mário david and mr marek siwiec, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the review of the european neighbourhood policy (2011/2157 (ini)) (a7-0400/2011).
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, commissioner, i also thank the rapporteurs for their work. my group put forward many amendments, not all of which were accepted, although we recognize that the document has been considerably improved compared with the beginning of its drafting. we, mr füle, as you know, take a very critical view of the neighbourhood policy because the 'arab spring' exposed it. the european union, with its neighbourhood policy, was a necessary partner for ben ali and mubarak: we were not there and were not expected to be there; it was done on the margins of the european union. we believe that in the neighbourhood policy we should resolve once and for all whether, within the framework of the instruments of the neighbourhood policy, such as the association agreement, compliance with article 2 which conditions the agreement on strict respect for human rights is ever going to be demanded, and therefore if, if ever, at a given time, a regime does not comply with it, that association agreement will be frozen. to date it has never been done. we have had the experience of the 'arab spring' and we are now having a problem with some states, such as morocco or israel, with which we have an association agreement. in morocco, which has an advanced status, elections have been held with a turnout of only 23%, according to official figures. and morocco has a part of the territory of western sahara illegally occupied. will article 2 ever be applied? will we ever apply it, mr füle?
madam president, our neighbourhood in the south is entering a new historical phase from which there is no turning back. the european union must accompany these processes of democratic change, away from the old attitude of complacency with a pretended stability that was only immobility. our neighbourhood policy must be based, as required by article 8 of the eu treaty, on universal values such as human dignity, human rights, democracy, the rule of law, as well as conditionality and specificity. in any case, on the basis of the values mentioned above, we must dialogue with the new political groups, including the moderate islamist forces; we must intensify our relations with these countries, their political and social forces, their civil society: this is a task for the community institutions and also for the european political and social groups. in addition to political support, we must provide economic and financial aid to these countries. the opening up of trade must be gradual, mutually beneficial and include the services sector, as the report calls for. we must also give priority to the administrative and institutional development of several of our southern neighbours and support them in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and i would also like the union for the mediterranean to find sufficient resources to implement some of the projects identified. these and many other issues, madam president - and i will conclude - are dealt with in the comprehensive report drawn up by my brilliant colleague, mr mário david, and which we shall be voting on tomorrow. i am sure, mr füle, that your reading will be very useful to you and to the commission services.
madam president, commissioner, the 'arab spring' has certainly shown that europe needs a renewed neighbourhood policy. for democracy to be established and to last in our neighbouring countries, it must be accompanied by equitable and sustainable socioeconomic development. i am therefore pleased that we have agreed to strengthen cooperation in such important areas as research, innovation and energy. this is what the socialists have advocated in the committee on industry, research and energy, since these are sectors with the capacity to contribute to development and the creation of high value-added jobs. the european union's support for democratic reforms requires an integrated strategy that supports an inclusive economic model capable of reducing social inequalities and creating jobs. i think this report is also a good step in that direction; i congratulate the rapporteurs.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the alternative rapporteurs and their assistants and collaborators, as well as the secretariat, for the work they have done, because i believe that it is thanks to them that we have managed to reach a difficult and laborious agreement at first reading. we are discussing a report which was originally intended to be a simple report, but which has become very complex; suffice it to say that it was extended for five months in its original timetable. but we have finally obtained a report which has achieved the twofold objective which it set itself: on the one hand, to ensure the greatest possible clarity in the labelling of packaged juices and, on the other, to ensure the highest quality in the contents and composition of these juices. we could define this agreement as the best possible and we could summarize it by highlighting the characteristic notes of the main points on which we have reached agreement. firstly, the regulation which we are likely to adopt tomorrow, and for which i ask you to vote in favour, perfectly maintains the distinction between squeezed fruit juices - also known as fresh juices - and juices made from concentrates and nectars. of these three, the first two 'squeezed juices and juices from concentrates' will not be allowed to contain added sugars when the legislation comes into force: they will therefore be presented to the consumer in their pure state and, by definition, only nectars will be sweetened. in accordance with the labelling rules, the claims 'without added sugar' have been removed, but in order to clarify the new situation for the consumer, we have allowed for a sufficient period of time an information note on the packaging which states that 'from the date of approval, no juice may contain added sugars'. we always want clarity and transparency. as regards mixed juices, we also provided a much-needed dose of clarity, since the name of the juice will be based on the main fruit, so that the list of ingredients will have to be arranged in order of importance, from top to bottom, of the different fruits that the same juice has required for its composition. we had no less of a debate on the best way to ensure equal treatment for all products which are to be consumed in the european union, whether or not they are manufactured in our territory, and we also reached an agreement on this, with the exception of a few exceptions concerning the product, which have little impact on it and which must comply with the codex alimentarius, the issue has been left pretty well settled in this directive. if i were to say that we have listened to all the sectors involved in parliament, i would not be exaggerating: farmers, consumers, industrialists. perhaps the council and the commission should have listened more to the farmers, because while it is true that their request came a little late, it is no less true that, in my view, they have not been listened to very much. there are probably people who can say that he didn't get away with it 100 percent. in a report like this, in which there are many interests at stake, it is not possible, even if it does not seem so, for everyone to get their way in negotiations, and i am not referring to the council, the commission and parliament - everyone knows about the codecision process - but also to the sectors involved - industry, consumers and farmers. but i can assure you that if there is any sector which has the slightest complaint or which feels that it has not got its way, it is not precisely the consumer sector; i can make that very clear. so we feel that we have done a good job in that respect, and that is why i ask you to support this report by voting in favour of it.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr perelló, on the enormous work he has done, on his spirit of collaboration with all the other rapporteurs, and also the other rapporteurs on their collaboration with each other, and also the polish presidency and the commission on their efforts to reach an agreement at first reading. parliament, the council and the commission have had divergent positions, sometimes quite different ones, on various subjects, and therefore the agreement has not been easy, nor does it satisfy everyone 100%, but we can say that it is a reasonably satisfactory agreement. the amendment to this directive is notable in that, as has already been said, sugar will no longer be allowed in juices, whether squeezed or concentrated, but nectars will be products sweetened with sugar, honey or sweeteners. it is clear that the average consumer is not aware of this legislation and therefore of the difference between juices and nectars. and so i think that the agreement reached between the three institutions to put a statement on the packaging, for a transitional period, that fruit juices do not contain sugar will not only help consumers to distinguish between two products, but they will also be much better informed. the aim of this proposal was to amend directive 2001/112/ec for the second time in order to adapt it to technical progress and to developments in international rules on codex alimentarius. however, despite the support of all the agricultural organizations in the union - as has already been said - the council and the commission have surprisingly refused to allow the addition of mandarin to orange juice in a quantity of less than 10%, with mandarin being included in the list of ingredients, as permitted by the codex alimentarius standard (stan 45-1981) and also taking into account that this is a common practice in brazil and the united states, from where we import a lot of concentrates. in this connection, another contentious issue during the negotiations is the re-incorporation of flavourings, pulp and cells lost during the extraction of juices and nectars. it was agreed by all during the negotiations to maintain the original commission proposal to incorporate flavourings, pulp and cells from the same species of fruit. however, some members of my group will vote against this report precisely for that reason. and finally, there are two things that concern me and that i want to put forward: the first is that, in general, imported products traded within the european union are not required to meet the same standards of quality and food safety as we do for our own products. and in the case, as it is, of being required by law, not being sufficiently controlled. and the second thing, which also worries me, is the use of delegated acts by the commission to substantially amend legislation, as has been attempted recently with the regulation on nutrition and health claims with regard to the claim 'without added sugar'. or these days, even if it is not the case, as is being attempted with the wood regulation. this justifies the position of this parliament on delegated acts.
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all, this debate shows how passionate a product like fruit juice, which seems simple at first sight, can be. this means - as many of you have mentioned - that the fruit and vegetable sector is important to us, that it also has a positive image in relation to health and that we therefore have an interest in protecting and supporting this sector, as we do with the common agricultural policy. one of the best ways to support the fruit sector is to win and maintain consumer confidence. we have seen this year, with the escherichia coli crisis, how consumer distrust can have a negative impact on producers. that is why i think that this directive which we have been able to negotiate together - and i also agree that it is a good compromise - is in the direction of strengthening consumer confidence and is also to the advantage of producers. i would like to reassure mr schnellhardt, if that can help him to change his position and vote in favour of this directive. this directive is entirely consistent with the labelling directive, since on the label and in the title of a product all the ingredients will appear in the order of the quantities contained in the respective juice. from this point of view, there is therefore no contradiction with the labelling directive, which does indeed require all ingredients to be mentioned, except that a priority order is given in proportion to the percentage contained. mr szegedi, i do not know where you get the idea that the european union is forcing the hungarian producer or any other european producer to cut down his trees. this has never been the case with any product, and there is no reason for a producer to make such a choice. i can assure you that there is nothing in the common agricultural policy or in any european decision which obliges any european fruit grower to uproot his trees. from that point of view, you can rest easy. fruit and vegetable producers will continue to receive support to produce quality products. with the decision which i hope we will be able to take, we will help consumers to appreciate this quality. some of you have mentioned that we import a lot of juices from outside. the important thing in the european union is to continue to ensure that the juices and fruits we produce can increase not so much in quantity as in quality, because that is where the added value lies. i think that's what's important to support. we have a limited potential for agricultural land, at any rate more limited than other producers in the world. the way we help our producers to make a good living is above all by helping them to make quality and to promote it well. i think this directive will also help us to move in that direction. thank you again, mr rapporteur. thank you to all who have supported us in reaching this compromise and a positive decision tomorrow.
the rapporteur. - mr president, thank you to the presidency of the council and the commission and to all those who have spoken. but it would be dishonest not to say something else: we are each free in this house to defend the interests we consider appropriate, whether they belong to an industrial sector or to anyone else, but i believe we must be honest with ourselves and with others and not disguise the defence of what we are defending with other names or with issues that obscure them. because i have to say that not one of the alternative speakers who have worked, who have worked well - who, like mr schlyter, have even brought in some humorous notes, which we really needed - not one of them has had any complaints from any consumer association. so it cannot be said that we are not cooperating in consumer information, nor can anyone claim to be more of a consumer advocate than their own associations. that is not our claim. it is important to read this directive again carefully and to respect the work that has been done. i should also like to say a few words about three speeches by mrs ries, mr kelly and mrs nedelcheva, in which they referred to the need to promote and consume local products, because it is true that the european union - no matter in which country it is produced - is a consumer and producer power of packaged fruit and juice, and we should, in order to save co2 emissions into the atmosphere and to strengthen our position in times of crisis, especially in agriculture, maximise the consumption of our products. so i support and join the three interventions you have mentioned. i also agree with the commissioner when he says that we must strive to win in quality and quantity: we must do so, but the union is a whole, no matter where it is produced, and that must also be reflected in fruit and juice. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue card question. mr schnellhardt, i am reading the directive very carefully because what you are saying is completely false, because it is not allowed to add flavourings from other fruits: it is said that flavourings from the same species will be added. what we could not accept is something that is technically impossible, which is to add first, compulsorily - to favour we do not know whom - the aroma of the same fruit that is being expressed at that moment, in the same juice. because that, when the juice is stored in tanks of four million liters and it takes ten thousand liters to extract two liters of aroma, is technically impossible, and you should have been told well. i would ask you very kindly to read the directive carefully, because you will probably change your mind.
mr president, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i did not want to shy away from this recognition of the polish presidency, because in the area of freedom, justice and security its achievements are very remarkable and have not been sufficiently emphasized in previous speeches. it has been used extensively in sensitive cases such as child abuse, sexual exploitation, the right to information in criminal proceedings, and an initiative of the spanish presidency has been successful: the protection of victims, the european protection order. but above all, it has given impetus to two extremely complex package of files, making a real difference, even by employing ministers who are no longer in the government, as is the case with minister miller: the asylum package and the migration package. these are very complex files which have received a decisive boost during the polish presidency, and i hope that their processing in this european parliament, as the ordinary legislator of the european union, can be completed during the next danish presidency.
in writing. i congratulate the polish presidency on its work for the six months, its foreign minister on his important europeanist speech in berlin and, as rapporteur for the intellectual property observatory, on his constant encouragement. i regret that my report will not be adopted in the house until next february, but i would also like to thank you for your efforts to overcome the thorny problems of political asylum. happy 2016, year of culture, which i hope with the same europeanist and cultural spirit that this presidency has had and which i would have liked to share with oviedo, my city, as we try in a project of civic unity.
in writing. − in favour. having regard to the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council (com(2011)0446); having regard to article 294(2) and article 212(2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, pursuant to which the commission submitted the proposal to parliament (c7-0208/2011); having regard to article 294(3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union; having regard to rules 55 and 46(1) of its rules of procedure; having regard to the report of the committee on foreign affairs (a7-0397/2011), the european parliament has adopted its position at first reading, taking over the commission proposal; calls on the commission to refer the matter to parliament again if it intends to amend its proposal substantially or replace it with another text; and instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the national parliaments.
in writing. − in favour. the ‘fruit juices and certain similar products’ sector represents an industry of considerable size in the european union. however, to take just one example, it is worth noting that over 82% of the orange juice consumed in europe comes mainly from brazil and the united states. in other words, less than 20% of the orange juice consumed in the eu is produced here. the european union produces high-quality fruit juices which contribute to a healthy and balanced diet and are manufactured according to the sustainability standards supported by our laws. it is therefore fair that we should defend these same high standards of quality for all products being marketed in the eu.
in writing. − in favour. the purpose of the current commission proposal for a regulation is to reduce the amount of phosphorus used in detergents in domestic washing-machines. the commission opted for a regulation instead of a directive in order to better harmonise different rules at national levels. phosphates end up in our water systems, rivers, streams, lakes, and notably the danube basin, and the baltic sea. phosphorus helps life to flourish. as a result, algae and other fast-developing plant life proliferate where there is an increased source of phosphorus in water. that results in eutrophication – the excessive growth of algae which starves other living organisms of oxygen and can also produce toxins – killing fish, plants and other species, as well as reducing the quality of the water itself. therefore, to clean up europe's water, it is desirable to reduce the amount of phosphorus reaching the water of our continent - and indeed throughout the world.
in writing. - i'm against it. we in the green group welcome the result of the vote (326 votes against, 296 in favour). after months of tense and complex negotiations, deliberations and debates, and amidst heavy pressure from some governments, such as the moroccan and spanish, the majority of parliament has finally responded in a consistent and fair manner by rejecting the agreement. supporting such an agreement would have been contrary to international law and would have been a slap in the face to the rights of the saharawi people. there were three reasons why we voted against: legal, ecological and economic. legally, because morocco was negotiating with resources that do not belong to it, since the waters of western sahara are in fact occupied territory and therefore the agreement ignores the rights of the saharawi people, thus violating international law. ecologically, because fisheries agreements should be made on stocks which have surpluses, while those in that area suffer from overfishing. and economically, because the profitability of the agreement has proved to be the worst of its kind and is a waste for european accounts.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament will amend the number of members of parliamentary committees to adapt itself to the new context.
in writing. − having regard to the proposal by the conference of presidents, having regard to parliament’s decision of 14 september 2009 on the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees, delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies, and having regard to rule 198 of parliament’s rules of procedure, the european parliament has adopted its decision on the numerical strength of delegations. whereas there is a need for continuity in its business and whereas, following the entry into force of protocol no 36 to the lisbon treaty, the new members are entitled to sit in the european parliament and on its bodies in full enjoyment of their rights, the european parliament decides to amend the number of members in the interparliamentary delegations as follows: d13 - delegation for relations with the arab peninsula (18 members); d23 - delegation for relations with india (28 members); d27 - delegation for relations with the korean peninsula (17 members); d29 - delegation for relations with south africa (17 members). it also instructs its president to forward this decision to the council and commission, for information.
in writing. − against. to us it is not acceptable to have such a resolution and not to even mention the western sahara.
in writing. − against. the text was drafted in a way which called into question directives that seek to increase transparency in the defence market.
in writing. - for this. as my colleague werner schulz has said: 'parliament has today adopted the green proposal and expressed its opinion in its resolution on new elections in russia. we are demonstrating our solidarity and support for the protesters in the streets of moscow and other cities. tens of thousands of citizens have protested against the election fraud. they feel betrayed and their dignity violated. they don't want a revolution, they want honest elections and the registration of real opposition parties. even mikhail gorbachev, who has so far refrained from criticising putin, is calling for the election to be annulled and for new elections to be held. we must support this movement for democracy and not just watch. their courage and fearlessness point to new times. the forthcoming eu-russia summit must send our message clearly.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament welcomes the joint communications of the commission and the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy on ‘a new response to a changing neighbourhood’ and ‘a partnership for democracy and shared prosperity with the southern mediterranean’ and the approach presented therein, in particular regarding the principles of mutual accountability and shared commitment to universal values of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, as well as conditionality, a tailor-made approach towards the partner countries, the advancing of multilateral and sub-regional cooperation, and the principle of further involving societies within the enp policy.
in writing. − in favour of the amended resolution presented together by the alde group, s&d group and greens group. greens/efa supports this own initiative report, in particular where it calls for a proper evaluation of the policies developed over the last ten years aimed at combating terrorism. measures that in retrospect were not necessary, effective and proportionate to combat terrorism need to be repealed, violations of fundamental rights need to be investigated and redressed and new forms of democratic scrutiny need to be developed based on the powers granted to the european parliament and national parliaments by the lisbon treaty.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, and the shadow rapporteurs for their work regarding the preparation of the parliament’s position on our proposal to reinforce the european maritime safety agency. in general, the commission is very grateful for the continuous support by the parliament to emsa. the parliament and council adopted the emsa founding regulation in june 2002. over the years, emsa has evolved into an operational agency supporting both the commission and the member states. emsa is highly respected by its stakeholders for its professionalism and quality output. emsa’s core business will remain maritime safety. emsa also contributes to maritime security and to environmental aspects of shipping. the most operational forms are the network of pollution response vessels, the satellite tracking of illegal discharges by ships and the different systems to monitor maritime traffic. emsa’s technical expertise is interesting for other policy areas. therefore, the commission has made a proposal to extend emsa’s mandate with regard to certain aspects for which we feel more eu added value is possible. the rapporteur and the committee on transport and tourism have expressed their support for this approach and have indicated three priorities. the first priority is establishing the european maritime space without barriers. i fully share this objective. we have an internal market. a truck goes from tallinn to lisbon without any barriers. a vessel, however, is considered to be on an international voyage and is required to fulfil the same formalities as if she were coming from asia or america. emsa is able to assist us in realising the european maritime space without barriers. the blue belt project is an important milestone. it aims at enhancing short sea shipping in the eu by monitoring and recording the route of each individual vessel and thus supporting customs requirements. the second priority is promoting maritime professions in the eu. again, i fully share this objective and i am committed to developing a social maritime agenda. i see a role for emsa supporting us in reaching this objective. not only does emsa know a lot about training and qualification systems in member states and third countries, but emsa has already developed an information system. however, emsa itself should neither become a maritime academy nor deliver certificates to seafarers. the third priority is improving the safety of offshore installations in the eu. in the wake of the tragic accident involving the deepwater horizon offshore installation in the gulf of mexico, like many member states, the eu through emsa provided specialised equipment to the united states. some weeks ago, the commission, at the initiative of my colleague, mr oettinger, presented a legislative proposal to enhance the safety of offshore installations in the eu. the commission’s objective is to establish high safety standards across the eu. the proposal we are discussing today already foresees that emsa’s pollution response capabilities ought to be made available in case of pollution caused by offshore installations. i know that the parliament wants to go further in a couple of amendments giving emsa a role in the prevention of pollution by offshore installations, in the licensing process and in third-party oversight. however, emsa has no expertise in drilling and well operations. therefore, the commission would like emsa to remain a maritime transport agency. following your planned vote, i would consider that it should not be difficult for parliament and the council to reach an agreement on the current emsa proposal. there are areas in which it is more efficient to improve coordination and cooperation through emsa. conversely, the eu – including emsa – will, and should, stay out of areas which are better served by national, regional or local authorities. in conclusion, i am grateful for the support of parliament, and i am looking forward to reaching an agreement soon on emsa’s new mandate.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner kallas, i will begin by saying that if this matter has been easy, if this matter is going to come to a successful conclusion, it will be largely due to the serious, rigorous and flexible position of the rapporteur, mr fleckenstein. i thank him, on behalf of my group, for having had the flexibility to accept our views in order to reach a situation of quasi-consensus. ladies and gentlemen, the history of the european maritime safety agency is a chronicle of success. day by day he has come to justify his existence and the reason for his existence. the amendment to the regulation establishing emsa is not a matter of correcting mistakes, but quite the opposite: it is a matter of extending its powers in view of new challenges, the emergence of new problems for which we believe that emsa is the appropriate instrument to address them and find solutions. parliament is concerned that emsa does not become an entity in its own right, but continues to be guided by the commission and to act at the request of the commission itself or of the member states. the serious accident in the gulf of mexico has advised that emsa be entrusted with assisting states in the investigation of accidents to maritime, coastal or offshore installations. in another respect, emsa's role in the control of recognised organisations vis-à-vis classification societies and, in particular, in the exercise of mutual recognition should be highlighted. it is important to remember that the agency has a key role in port state control and the fight against piracy. for the first time, the report explicitly refers to the agency's work in satellite monitoring of fishing vessels and shipping companies operating in dangerous waters, such as in close cooperation with operation atalanta. it is a commitment to comply with the environmental strategy and to support emsa's assistance when needed. as regards the composition of the management board, i am of the opinion that there should be a gender balance and that it should be set out in a recital; i think it is too much to introduce it in the article. and i think it is plausible to promote maritime training and the exchange of best practice between institutions and schools. we will not support the european network of training centres, because each member state has its own peculiarities and needs. finally, madam president, we regret having to vote against articles 18 and 41 because they want to exclude the word 'national'. that's a matter that's not naive or innocent. no one and no state, however much we may give up sovereignty in the name of economic efficiency, is prepared to accept that the word 'national', the existence of states, is not compatible, as it should be, with the existence of the union of 27 and in the future of 28.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, it is true that the headlines on european integration are being carried by the agreements reached at the weekend summit. but it is also true that europe is built on reports such as the one we are approving today on the european maritime safety agency. emsa is the child of the crises generated by the erika and prestige disasters. it is a response to problems of european concern such as the environmental disasters that generate these types of maritime accidents and the threats they pose to the lives and well-being of thousands of people. the agency, with its expanded remit, is constituted as a coordinating and integrating element of efforts and resources at european and national level, which makes it possible to use all available resources more efficiently and thus avoid duplication and dysfunctions. this is the first recipe for combating the deficit. i regret that the opposition of the major groups has prevented the regional perspective from being included, since resources are also deployed from this level to prevent and respond to such incidents, as was demonstrated during the prestige disaster. then the basque fishing fleet, for example, picked up hundreds of tons of flatfish. the committee on transport and tourism has decided that the agency should now be responsible for incidents that may occur on oil and gas platforms, but we have heard what the commissioner has said. finally, the report ensures that resources such as satellite tracking of ships are also used for the agency's own purposes, for maritime security and protection operations and specifically in the fight against piracy. unfortunately, it does not incorporate the amendments calling for the introduction of gender balance criteria in the configuration of the agency's governing bodies, which is inconsistent with the statements of this parliament. the new emsa contains a fundamental commitment to improving the training of professionals working in this sector, although the idea of creating a european school of excellence or a network to harmonize training at european level has not been accepted. the report also encourages the systematic application of innovation in the sector. for all these reasons, i think that mr fleckenstein should be congratulated and thanked for the support he will receive for this initiative. emsa also builds europe by demonstrating that the activities of its institutions are useful to citizens.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur on including a basic idea in the scope of the european maritime safety agency, which is the fight against piracy, because it has data, it has instruments and it can certainly be a means of protecting ships flying the flag of the european union. operation atalanta is only active off the coast of somalia, not in kenya, not in the rest of the horn of africa. the foreign affairs council has extended operation atalanta until 2014 and it has been seen that as a result of the surveillance of vessels, fewer attacks have occurred, but attacks continue to occur, and therefore it needs reinforcement by the commission, the council and states. but since this agency is dependent on the commission, we ask the commission to initiate a unified action in a transversal way, with financial resources, to protect more european union vessels, especially fishing vessels. that is how we will build more europe.
mr president, the white paper on growth and employment 2001 was characterised by a lack of political will on the part of the member states to implement it. that's why we don't have a single transport space yet. the challenges we face are the harmonization and simplification of european legislation in areas such as safety, working conditions, driving times, the outsourcing of costs and the adaptation of disabled people, the opening up of markets, the strengthening of the motorways of the sea, the development of multimodality, the achievement of the single sky, the effort to prioritise and finance projects, and all in order to create a more sustainable single european area, with fewer road deaths, a more efficient, more innovative and more cohesive internal market. the initiative has specific objectives. i only hope that the member states will show more willingness, otherwise we will be forced to take urgent measures ten years later because we will be dealing with a transport crisis in europe. and i would like to congratulate mr grosch, who has done a good job.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the order of business for the debate on the following oral questions to the council: the conditions of detention in the eu of niccolò rinaldi, renate weber, gianni vattimo, rita izcristino/antonio rubio/sylvia tancredo and rita rita rita rubio of the socialist party of spain (rosalia and simona) and of the socialist party of spain (sofia in 't veld, sarah ludford, louis michel, andrea zanoni, ramon tremosa i balcells, giommaria uggias, cecilia wikström and marielle de sarnez, on behalf of the group of the alliance of democrats and liberals for europe (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials)) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials)) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (officials) (o
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am grateful to this parliament for raising this important issue and for giving me the opportunity to respond on behalf of the council. fundamental rights are the basis on which the eu is founded and lie at the heart of everything it does. these rights enshrined in the constitutional traditions of member states, the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights include respect for the life, health and dignity of persons subject to imprisonment. the council is strongly committed to taking action to strengthen mutual trust between the judicial authorities of the member states. this is key to ensuring the effective implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in the area of freedom, security and justice. detention conditions are important. they are particularly relevant in the context of ensuring the correct functioning of legal instruments on mutual recognition, such as the framework decision on the european arrest warrant. the european council specifically addressed this issue in the stockholm programme. it stated that efforts should be undertaken to strengthen mutual trust and render more efficient the principle of mutual recognition in the area of detention. efforts to promote the exchange of best practices should be pursued and implementation of the european prison rules approved by the council of europe should be supported. issues such as alternatives to imprisonment, pilot projects on detention and best practices in prison management could also be addressed. the european council invited the commission to reflect further on these issues with the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon. the council welcomed the adoption by the commission on 14 july this year of a green paper on strengthening mutual trust in the european judicial area and the application of eu criminal justice legislation in the field of detention. it will follow closely the development of the consultation procedure launched by the commission with this green paper. however, the council has not received any proposal to date for either legislative or non-legislative action in the field of detention conditions. should the commission decide that action is required and present a proposal, the council will of course examine it closely, given the importance of the issue. it goes without saying that the union may only adopt legislation where the treaties provide it with the powers to do so. in the area of detention, the limits of the union’s competence are set out in the relevant provisions of article 82 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. detention conditions are not covered by this provision. it is the responsibility of member states to ensure that detention conditions and prison management respect fundamental rights and, in particular, that they meet agreed international standards, in particular those of the council of europe. in its green paper, to which i have already referred, the commission sets out some of the activities related to the issue of detention conditions and for which it provides support through various financial programmes. the commission also has a regular dialogue with the council of europe on these issues. the council supports these activities and would welcome other forms of support to member states in the area of detention conditions and facilities. that said, and given the absence of relevant treaty provisions, the council has no further power to take action in the areas mentioned by the honourable members. issues such as the setting of common standards on detention conditions, tackling the abuse of pre-trial detention and overcrowding, and the rates of non-nationals detained, all fall outside the scope of action by the union. the council is asked about the possibility of providing statistics on the relationship between recourse to the european arrest warrant and pre-trial detentions. since 2005, the council has carried out an annual statistical survey among member states on quantitative data relating to the functioning of the european arrest warrant. however, this is the only statistical data held by the council.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, detention issues mainly fall under member states’ responsibility. there are, however, reasons for the european union to take a closer look. with the green paper on the application of eu criminal justice legislation in the field of detention, the commission wanted to find out to what extent detention issues influence mutual trust between member states and learn more about its impact on the application of the principle of mutual recognition and judicial cooperation within the eu. detention conditions can affect several mutual recognition instruments, such as the european arrest warrant (eaw), the transfer of prisoners, the mutual recognition of alternative sanctions and probation and the european supervision order. the european arrest warrant framework decision requires the surrender of persons between member states both in pre-trial and post-trial situations. all member states must comply with the eu charter when applying eu law and are subject to the european convention on human rights. however, there are doubts about the way in which standards are upheld across the eu. the green paper recalls respect for fundamental rights. in fact, judicial authorities are not obliged to surrender a person if this might breach the person’s fundamental rights because of very poor or unacceptable detention conditions. the council of europe plays a key role in monitoring detention conditions. at global level, the 2006 optional protocol to the united nations convention against torture created a new system to prevent ill-treatment of detainees. the green paper asked how we could better coordinate the work of these monitoring bodies to avoid duplications. the framework decision on transfer of prisoners of 2008 is another example of the challenges we face when it comes to mutual recognition in the area of detention. the framework decision establishes a system for transferring convicted prisoners back to the member state of nationality or habitual residence. perceived poor detention conditions, or conditions that risk falling below the minimum standards required by the council of europe european prison rules, could be an impediment to the transfer of prisoners. following the road map for strengthening procedural safeguards, the green paper recognises that time spent in pre-trial detention varies widely from one member state to another. in addition, non-nationals seem to have a disadvantage: obtaining bail is often more difficult for them as they are seen as a greater risk as they might leave the country. we asked in the green paper whether mutual trust among member states could be strengthened by creating common minimum standards on two points: first, on the right to review the decision to keep a person in pre-trial detention and, second, on time limits for pre-trial detention. the consultation launched by the green paper was opened until 20 november. we will now analyse the replies to decide whether any specific action at the european level might be considered.
if i may take a breath, mr szpunar, i would like to join in the voice of those who this morning congratulated your government on the excellent presidency it has held. as this is my last speech as vice-president of this sitting, i would also like to congratulate mr kallas and the commission and wish all of you, the members present and absent, the officials who help us to organise our sittings and, in particular, those who accompany us at the table, the ushers and the interpreters, a very good holiday and, of course, that next year will be even a little better than this one, which is taking its last breaths.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister for the council, there is a type of prisoner in the border countries of the european union whose conditions are not mentioned in the green paper, and whose situation is deplorable: they are asylum seekers and refugees. they're not criminals. perhaps not all of them conform to the geneva convention, because they are not individually persecuted, but they are fleeing wars and filling our detention camps in greece, italy, malta and other places in the mediterranean. the reason is the slowness in resolving your lawsuit. they can be up to six months behind bars because the proceedings are stagnant. this is a deprivation of liberty which we must denounce because it is a disgrace to us as europeans. that we should react in this way to humanitarian disasters is the most contrary to our values. we may know the figures and the length of detention, but what good is it to create a warning mechanism for humanitarian disasters if we have not solved the situation of the refugees we have in the detention camps? ladies and gentlemen, we know that these are government policies, but there is the budget for an asylum office that does not yet have a community task and mandate. it is time we endowed it sufficiently and we made a community policy on this subject which we are ashamed of.
it is not a question of order, mrs sinclaire, and i am not going to give you the floor.
madam president, we need, at least in this debate, a strong commissioner with clear principles and the political courage to prevent other members of the college from distorting the raison d'être of this fund, much less allowing it to be used as a bargaining chip to square the circle of other community policies. is it necessary to compensate our farmers for the trade agreements we have with other states? i'm not sure. but this fund cannot become just another instrument of the cap, much less an instrument which, by increasing its budget, leaves without funds the sectors for which it was created and which continue to suffer, even today, not only the effects of globalisation but also the effects of the economic crisis. because, commissioner, 500 million euros to help companies in difficulty may not be enough. but that same money to help those same companies, and also hundreds of thousands of farmers, is simply ridiculous, it is to deceive everybody, companies and farmers. commissioner, this is an instrument of solidarity at a time when it is needed more than ever. fight for a separate fund to offset our trade agreements. at least fight to extend this fund if it is necessary to compensate new sectors, but fight. you are still in time - or else, mr andriessen - to be the commissioner that we need, the whole of parliament and the whole of the european institutions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but for the results of research to contribute to our energy policy objectives in terms of efficiency and renewable energy, they need to be accompanied by two types of measures which are also very important: firstly, measures to support actions aimed at promoting the market penetration of the resulting energy technologies and, secondly, measures to remove non-technological barriers, which could be confused with market failures, and to do so by strengthening capacity building, training, awareness-raising activities, and mobilising local investment and also the actors involved, as is the case with the islands pact. the 'intelligent energy - europe' programme has so far met these objectives with remarkable success, as the various evaluations have shown; a programme which has also been noted for its support for small and medium-sized enterprises. i therefore want to make clear here and now my group's support for the continuity of the programme's objectives and our commitment to providing it with sound and clear funding.
member of the commission. − madam president, all the questions asked and comments made expressed deep concern over the future of a programme which made a great contribution to energy efficiency and renewable energy across europe. therefore i can assure you that the commitment remains and should be reinforced – also in financial terms – in the future. as many arguments concerning the use and contribution and value added of the intelligent energy europe ii programme had already been presented, i do not need to repeat them. but what i have to say is that this not just a subjective feeling. it is also reinforced and fully confirmed by the external evaluation of the programme. i can state with satisfaction that this is both relevant and useful, as it replies to the evolving needs, problems and periods relating to sustainable energy. the programme was, as you know, supporting more than 500 projects, 50% of which went to small and medium-size enterprises, and this was a clear preoccupation of mr paksas. two success stories should be in the textbooks highlighting the utility of that kind of common european programme: solar keymark and the elena facility. these are two clear success stories. but the major questions were not about the past and present but about the future. my answer is that we have to handle several targets: energy efficiency and renewable energy sources is one of them – a very serious one. however, at the same time we have to respond to the question of energy security and solidarity. this is the question that was so tangible in 2009, when there were cuts in the gas supply via ukraine – tangible in the kitchens of some member states. so we also have to respond to these concerns. this is why we have to share out money in order to reinforce energy efficiency: renewable, yes, but also transborder networks that are really contributing to energy security and solidarity on the continent, which is so dependent on deliveries from third countries which from time to time clearly display their monopoly power. as to the future, as i was informed – you well know that this is not quite my dossier, but i was studying it before coming to the house – my preoccupation is to achieve better coherence between research, innovation and market update. this is why the commission placed the programme-related activities as a dedicated energy component of a new framework programme. this is the philosophy of mainstreaming actions, and we have been asked by many sources to mainstream our actions in this respect. this is called horizon 2020. i agree – and this is really what i have started as somebody responsible for the budget – that the clearly small amount of money (and i agree, this was a small amount of money: eur 743 million) via leverage was giving a clear impact. therefore, this is about clear impact with little money. i can assure you that energy efficiency and energy-renewable sources activities should be reinforced with more resources within the non-growing budget. implementation and details are coming in 2012. i know, already in advance, that it should be reinforced, and this is one of the very few chapters or parts of the 2014-2020 budget proposal to grow. the others are either nominally frozen or generally defended as a real constant. this was the real proposal for the future: to defend the budget as a real constant and really nominally frozen major spending blocks – cohesion and agricultural policy. this is the essence of a programme called horizon 2020 adopted on 30 november with details to be known at a later stage. perhaps we should go into a detailed discussion on the basis of these implementing details. there is, of course, also the place for the executive agency for competitiveness and innovation. here again, the external evaluation clearly indicates that this is a useful body. therefore, the role of this agency in all these related activities should be reinforced. we have an external evaluation (so this is not just our feeling) of both the intelligent energy europe ii programme and the agency for competitiveness and innovation, so both would be better placed, in financial terms, in the 2014-2020 programme. here is my budgetary story. so i can say that this is not just a slogan but a clear indication that in real (also in financial) terms, we fully share the assessment of parliament as to the value added of these programmes.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, i think your explanation was very logical, full of common sense; what happens is that these explanations, which are really very consistent, sometimes also compete with equally consistent reflections. and i think that what we are doing in parliament at the moment is calling attention to the fact that an instrument which has had a history of success should not be lost to the theoretical solutions which, in principle, theoretically, may be more efficient but which, in any case, would be to cancel the development of an instrument which has really helped to make many programmes derive from it and have very important consequences for energy savings - i will not mention all of them, but there is no doubt that actions such as elena, solar keymark or greenlight are lines of success - and all of this is always based on a fundamental pillar, also in these times of particularly acute crises in europe, which is the axis of innovation. it is impossible for societies which do not make innovation the driving force of their development to survive in such a competitive global society. and we are looking at a tool which has been useful precisely in developing innovation in the energy sector. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
madam president, "light, more light!" goethe is said to have asked in his last moments. today the poet, who was also an effective ruler, would surely qualify these statements by invoking thrift and efficiency. because in a europe which is poor in energy resources, it is essential that we know how to distinguish between the necessary consumption which drives the economy and the superfluous consumption. the latter must be mastered and, to do so, it is urgent to encourage a drastic change in the habits of many european citizens. when we analyze the economic crisis, we ask for austerity and we also ask for growth stimulus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission must make more concrete efforts than have been made so far, because it would strengthen the backbone of europe. only a sound and well-designed european energy policy, which is efficient and economical, can enable europe to move upright and in the right direction. the commission's comments on this matter, which i have already mentioned, will be welcome.
madam president, vice-president almunia, the 2010 competition policy report is the 40th in this series of commission reports. the various reports reflect the evolution of competition policy and its essential role in the sustainability of the european project. competition policy has established a demanding framework for extraordinary responses to the crisis, responses which, in many cases, are recapitalisation, guarantees and liquidity support; they must be proportionate, they must establish a fair burden-sharing and not distort markets to the detriment of competitors, which in the end is the customers, consumers, taxpayers and all citizens. a key aspect of this report concerns the exercise of collective actions to enable victims of competition infringements to obtain compensation for damages. we have reached an important consensus in the committee with mr. schwab's invaluable contribution. but the formula chosen to incorporate it as an annex to this report has unfortunately been found to be inadmissible. the report is therefore severely mutilated. what i am proposing is to postpone the vote so that we can incorporate the set of commitments reached in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and this can be supported by parliament. the commission has announced that it will present an initiative on this matter in the course of the next year, and this initiative cannot be delayed. parliament can ensure its consistency with other initiatives that may be taken and the commission must present it with ambition, taking into account the specific features of competition law and considering all the measures necessary for its effectiveness.
in writing. − in favour. following the observations made by the rapporteur of the own-initiative report on a new strategy for afghanistan, the committee on budgetary control decided to further look into the way eu funds are controlled in afghanistan. the approach taken by the rapporteur was to try to identify best practices by comparing the way the european commission is managing the funds with the way funds are being handled by various us agencies. to this end, the rapporteur went on a fact-finding mission to washington dc and new york city to meet representatives of the special inspector for afghanistan reconstruction (sigar), the inspector-general of the united states agency for international development (usaid), usaid’s office of afghanistan and pakistan affairs, the united states department of state, the government accountability office, the congressional research service, the world bank and the united nations development programme (undp). the rapporteur also held a meeting with the afghan control and audit office as well as with various representatives of ngos involved in afghanistan.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament welcomes the commission report on competition policy 2010; highlights, on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of this report, that eu competition policy has brought numerous benefits in terms of consumer welfare and has been an essential tool to eliminate obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital; points out that competition policy continues to be an essential tool for preserving the single market and protecting the consumer interest; stresses that some rules need to be updated to deal with new challenges. the european parliament also notes that the combined effect of robust principles and flexible procedures has enabled competition policy to be a constructive and stabilising factor in the eu’s financial system and in the real economy in general.
in writing. − abstained. the group has serious doubts about this case and the quality of the training measures organised.
in writing. − in favour. the rapporteur, mr cashman, was also responsible for the proposal for revision of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. there he put forward some crucial modifications to the european commission’s proposal presented on 30 april 2008. the european parliament voted on and supported those on 11 march 2009. after the ep’s election in june 2009 mr cashman was reappointed as rapporteur on the dossier. on 1 december the lisbon treaty entered into force and to a large extent modified the legal framework for the revision of this regulation. already in 2006 he drafted the resolution of the european parliament approved overwhelmingly by meps, containing a list of recommendations for improvement of the current regulation. in this perspective, when the commission presented its proposal for revision in 2008, expectations were very high as to how the standards on public access to eu documents could be improved. however, despite some positive modifications inserted in the proposal which are clearly justifiable, like the extension of the beneficiaries of this regulation, and conformity with the aarhus convention, others would, in my view, represent a step backwards for transparency, especially if we consider that most of the european parliament’s requests of 2006 have not been taken into account.
in writing. − in favour. the commission’s proposal is based on a 2008 consultation with emsa’s stakeholders, an external evaluation and a commission impact assessment. it also reflects emsa’s five-year strategy, adopted by its administrative board (where all member states are represented). the commission has also published a report (com(2011)286) showing that an eu oil spill detection and monitoring system reduces costs by around 20% compared to national systems. emsa has already been given new tasks as a result of the implementation of the third maritime safety package. it has concluded a number of ‘stand-by oil spill response vessel contracts’ with private operators who will switch from their regular activity into pollution response mode in case of emergency. the commission proposal would make clear that such vessels could also be used to combat pollution from other sources, including oil rigs. norway and iceland are the only third countries who participate in emsa. the commission recommends extending the possibility of technical assistance to accession countries, european neighbourhood partners and countries taking part in the paris memorandum of understanding (mou).
in writing. − in favour. according to un estimates, since the start of the violent crackdown on peaceful protesters in syria in march 2011, more than 4 000 people have lost their lives, including 307 children, and thousands more have been injured, arrested or tortured or have disappeared as a result of the brutal repression by the syrian regime against its population. the unhrc resolution of 2 december highlights in particular the extensive violations of children’s rights and the sexual violence against civilians, including against male detainees and children, committed by the syrian armed and security forces. the ep had to react.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament recalls that the main objective of the newly established surveillance mechanism is the prevention and correction of excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the european union and, in particular, in the eurozone; it recalls that, in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1176/2011, further objectives of the new mechanism include sustained convergence of economic performances of the member states and closer coordination of economic policies. the european parliament also stresses that, in the light of the current economic situation, it is essential for the macroeconomic surveillance framework to be up and running as soon as possible.
in writing. − in favour. transport is very important for eu citizens because it defines mobility. eu citizens are the beneficiaries of the european transport area, as it helps them to be mobile in all situations in daily life, allowing them to benefit from their right to free movement across europe for professional and private purposes. on average, 13.2% of the budget of private households is spent on transport goods and services. furthermore, passenger and goods transport provides jobs for many europeans and serves the completion of the european internal market, as it accounts for some 5% of eu wealth (in terms of gdp) and employs over 10 million europeans. transport is an important factor for towns and regions, as it not only connects towns and regions but also contributes to the eu’s status as a research and innovation centre and is therefore an important factor for the development of the eu and its regions, with immediate influence on the social cohesion of the regions. the creation of a single european transport area as a goal of the future european transport policy is thus directly linked to regional, environmental, economic, social, and employment policy. owing to this link, the transport sector can make a significant contribution to the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament welcomes the commission green paper; is concerned by the alarming situation as regards detention conditions in the eu and calls on member states to take urgent measures to ensure that the fundamental rights of prisoners, in particular the rights of vulnerable persons, are respected and protected, and considers that minimum common standards of detention should be applied in all member states; and reaffirms that detention conditions are of central importance for the application of the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in the area of freedom, security and justice, and considers a common basis of trust between judicial authorities, as well as a better knowledge of national criminal justice systems, to be of critical importance in this respect.
in writing. − in favour. the amendments asking for higher labour-social-ecological standards are crucial. the european parliament should not allow, for instance, economic interests to prevail on the worrying issue of forced child labour in uzbekistan.
in writing. − in favour. this is important because the ep needs to call on the member states to abolish all transitional measures in force, given that there are no real economic justifications to restrict the right to work and reside on the territory of another member state for romanians and bulgarians. parliament takes the view that these barriers are counterproductive and represent discriminatory measures against european citizens, creating an eu with unequal rights; as well, it should call on the council to fully take into account the communication from the european commission and to follow the proposed line when assessing if the transitional barriers are a favourable and necessary measure.
in writing. in favour. as rapporteur nicole kiil-nielsen said in a press release: 'in the light of the arab revolutions that are shaking the world today, the european parliament places conditionality at the heart of our new approach to the region, while recommending increased support for civil society, free media and social movements. human rights must now be the cornerstone of all our external action. to promote regional cooperation and dialogue between these countries, we recommend the creation of an ad hoc parliamentary forum which the eu, through the european parliament delegation, could propose to the parliaments of the five central asian countries. this will enable the elected european representatives to share their experience and expertise with their colleagues".
in writing. i am very pleased with this report, which was put forward by my colleague karima dell, and like her i am pleased with the very large majority vote, which is a strong sign from the european parliament. the crisis must not be used as an excuse for neglecting health and safety at work. the suffering of the workers cannot be sacrificed on the altar of austerity. how can we not be shocked by the following figures? according to the european agency for safety and health at work, 168 000 people die each year in europe from work-related accidents and diseases. more than half of all cancers and a quarter of all cardiovascular diseases are caused by these. 7 million people are injured in work accidents.
author. − mr president, ten years after the petersberg conference on afghanistan in 2001, which laid the foundation of the ongoing partnership between the international community and afghanistan, it is true that some progress has been achieved for women. according to the government, over 4 million girls are attending school and higher education; 17% of civil servants are female and more than 25% of the members of parliament are women. however, improvements remain fragile, and are often reduced to rhetoric. female illiteracy and maternal and infant mortality rates remain among the worst in the world. women and girls continue to face endemic domestic violence, trafficking, forced marriages, including child marriages, and in particular the abusive practice of boad continues to occur regularly, where a girl is given to an agreed family to compensate for a committed crime. let us remember as well that the stoning and physical disfigurement of women accused of violating the repressive social code of the taliban and other insurgent groups are still a common occurrence. afghan women with public roles have faced increasing attacks. this is something which we need to address and this is why we ask the afghan security forces not only to be trained in counter-insurgency but also in law and order, community safety and protecting women and children from abuse. let us remember, that women should also be leaders of organisations and be included in the design, monitoring and evaluation of the provincial security indicators. on pakistan, we have to denounce similar situations. the fact that in some regions the authorities are acting in a very similar way to those in afghanistan is especially worrying. this is why we ask the pakistani government to reintroduce the fundamental rights of the 1973 constitution which were suspended after the military coup in 1997, including the right to be free from discrimination on the basis of sex.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i think the message is clear. what we can do here is to ask the tunisian authorities to guarantee zakaria bouguira the right to a judicial process in line with international standards, in order to shed light on the serious human rights violations he has suffered and to prosecute those responsible for these acts. we must also ask for the same clarifications on the violations committed against the thirteen moroccans and, in any case, what we can also do is to insist, once again, on the fact that the reform of the security sector and the fight against impunity are essential projects to be undertaken without delay. only their successful outcome will guarantee the establishment of a viable rule of law and a process of national reconciliation. of course, they need help and support. i believe, in any case, that the establishment of a police force for order and control and a police force for the protection of persons and property is an essential element of the democratic transition.
