we're taking an important step forward for the benefit of our patients. that's what a lot of the speakers here today were talking about. but what struck me was that, again, there was a fear of promoting medical tourism. their statements reflected the fear that patients from countries with lower standards of living and smaller health budgets would crowd the offices of doctors in richer countries, crowding out patients from their own countries. let's think about it. this fear is not vital. payment is made at the home country rate, with the difference being borne by the patient. a sick person has no money left over to pay for two or three times the difference. i'm embarrassed to hear that we are now and still afraid of the so-called polish plumber myth.
in writing. – while we are critical of the violations of civil liberties in third countries, we must exercise similar scrutiny in the member states. it is very disappointing that the lithuanian parliament has gone as far as criminalisation of the dissemination of information about sexual orientation on the pretext of protecting minors, religious feelings and political convictions. it is a clear violation of freedom of expression and it cannot be justified even by the will of the majority of the population. inviolable rights of minorities are always an attribute of democracy, but the lithuanian parliament has mistaken populism for democracy. i would like to see the lithuanian parliament amending or repealing laws that are in their essence homophobic and in breach of the lithuanian constitutional law, the european convention on human rights, the eu charter of fundamental rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights. i applaud the courage of the lithuanian president dalia grybauskaitė in standing up against discrimination in public and hope that others will follow her suit. however, should the lithuanian parliament fail to comply with its international obligations, an intervention on behalf of the european union is needed.
mr president, i am happy to say that today is the 19th day of estonia’s membership of the euro zone, but estonia has been preparing for this since its accession. even the design of the estonian euro coin was already agreed by popular vote six years ago. however, joining the euro zone is not simply a question of individual choice – it is about more solidarity, taking common responsibility and actively contributing to the stability of the continent as a whole. at a time of economic crisis, moral values and ethics have become more important. we can see that economic potential in itself is not sufficient. what is crucial is whether a country can be trusted as being willing and able to meet its commitments in time and engaging in serious structural reforms. i welcomed the fact that the council was able to agree on a european stability mechanism, but the practical way to economic growth and stability is first of all to complete the single market, and especially the european single digital market. the latter should be integrated into the road map of the european single market, as well as into the european digital agenda. this could be a real chance to boost european competitiveness in the world. european citizens expect us to ease business-making in the digital sphere where operations like electronic payments and e-identification should be coherent and understandable. a single digital market also requires determined efforts to develop a services market.
in writing. – i urge the hungarian presidency to look into problems of freedom of movement in the field of education and the job market. today, mutual recognition of qualifications obtained in educational institutions of different member states, as well as experiences in various job markets, is facing numerous obstacles. the existing situation: while the commission is doing an assessment of the progress on education, i call upon the hungarian presidency to ensure that this problem will be addressed seriously also in the council. there is a need to convince the member states to agree on easier procedures in recognising educational qualifications regardless of the country where they have been obtained. i welcome the will of the hungarian presidency to energise the creation of an integrated european gas pipeline system that should end the isolation of some member states, including estonia, latvia and lithuania. i would like to remind the new presidency that the european parliament has adopted two important documents about energy solidarity and safety which need to be implemented by the council. i hope that the february european council will agree on a new european energy strategy. this should also include plan for the baltic sea energy connections network.
mr president, i should like to say to the high representative that in this situation condemnations and statements are not enough. attacks on christian communities have dramatically intensified, especially in the countries of the middle east and north africa. it is difficult to find a state there where christians can live as a normal minority and, most importantly, freely proclaim their faith. people who have newly adopted christianity are exposed to the risk of death. we do not speak about new minorities there. christians are among ancient traditional inhabitants in these countries. nowadays they increasingly are forced to leave their countries, are forced into ghettos, or have become internal refugees like those in iraq. therefore it is a pressing task to formulate the eu strategy on religious freedom and to earmark a set of concrete measures against those states which deliberately fail to protect religious minorities. i would like also to mention the idea of a colleague, mr mayor oreja, which is to compose a list of victims with whom the eu external services should actively make contact. this is not opposing one religion against another. this is about real equality of opportunity because it should be as easy to build a christian church in alexandria or ankara as it is to build a mosque in brussels.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it was good to hear what the high representative said and we fully agree with what she has said. it is very important that the european union has been able to react to the failure of the belarusian presidential elections. i wish we also had the courage to be as vigorous, firm and principled in the case of a country neighbouring belarus, where suppression of the democratic opposition and violations of the rule of law and of human rights have also become commonplace. the deterioration of democracy in russia might also be the very reason why the kremlin has recognised the belarusian presidential elections and described the violent repression as an ‘internal affair’ of belarus. such indifference to the appalling situation in belarus is a significant sign of tendencies in russia. the european parliament has come up with a strong resolution that proposes targeted visa and economic sanctions against the criminal regime of lukashenko. it is vital that the european union stands united on this and that the member states cease pursuing any bilateral initiatives with lukashenko and his regime. we must suspend the eastern partnership and other cooperation until the political prisoners are released. at the same time we must increase support to civil society, ngos and independent media in belarus in order to prepare them for the build-up of belarus after the downfall of lukashenko, which will hopefully take place by means of democratic elections. therefore, madam high representative, i would like you to support calling for a pan-european forum on the future of belarus.
vice-president of the council/ high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i have to leave to start travelling to turkey for the talks with iran, so my dear colleague and friend, stefan füle, will take the last part of this debate.
in writing. the situation in belarus is truly worrying and the eu must take appropriate action. as such, i would like to share with you a conspiracy theory that is circulating and that was told to me yesterday by a belarusian entrepreneur. he said that lukashenko himself did not want such a situation after the elections, but that it was the result of a collaboration between belarusian and russian special services aimed at destroying any attempt at cooperation between the eu and belarus. it is of course impossible to prove this kind of theory, but we should nevertheless take into account that by punishing the belarusian actors responsible we could also harm citizens, civil society etc. in view of the russian involvement, which is certainly silent, and quite likely in this case, i would like to remind you of what i have already had the opportunity to say before this house: ceterum censeo, france has decided to sell russia a military ship of the mistral type and i am convinced that it will regret its action.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would to thank the rapporteur for her outstanding work in trying to consolidate the positions of all the groups of the european parliament. regarding this report, i would like to highlight the importance of addressing the situation of immigrants in libya trying to cross the mediterranean. i can fully understand the concerns of the southern member states relating to the flow of illegal immigrants and the pressure it puts on their budgets as well as on society in general. however, while keeping in mind the interests of member states, we cannot set aside european values. the eu cannot afford to have the blood of any asylum-seeker or refugee on its hands. no agreement of the eu and its member states with libya should lead to the inhuman treatment, torture or execution of anyone. therefore it was encouraging to hear from the commissioner that he sees progress in eu-libya relations and negotiations.
member of the commission. – mr president, early last year vice-president/ high representative ashton took the initiative of proposing a debate on the arctic region. the plenary debate has helped us to receive your views and to illustrate the importance we attach to arctic cooperation as part of the external relations of the european union. we engage with the arctic region on many levels. firstly, both the union and member states have active research policies in the region. secondly, we pursue solid environmental and maritime policies. thirdly, our diplomacy in the fight against climate change addresses the core origin of arctic transformations. and fourthly, we continue to take action in favour of indigenous peoples worldwide, including those living in the arctic. while we acknowledge that our dialogue with all circumpolar arctic indigenous peoples could be improved, 2010 has witnessed the beginning of a fruitful and wider process of interaction, which we will certainly pursue in the years to come. when dealing with access to the arctic and the exploitation of its resources, we must live up to our reputation as a responsible consumer of raw materials and energy resources, adhering to the highest safety and environmental standards. in parallel, we will firmly seek fair treatment of our interests, including those of our companies. we are pleased to see that these areas are covered by parliament’s high north report, along with valuable proposals on how to proceed in the future. this report is an important contribution to the gradual building of the european union’s arctic policy, and i would like to thank michael gahler for taking this initiative forward. the initiative is particularly praiseworthy, as the rapporteur and several other meps facilitated an interesting dialogue with arctic third parties and civil society, in which we participated actively. the various perspectives are present in the final report, demonstrating the european union’s commitment to listen to, and work with, all arctic stakeholders. we are now opening a new phase in the development of eu arctic policy. parliament’s report will become the third pillar of its basic architecture, following the 2008 commission communication and the 2009 council conclusions. these three texts are consistent and offer a responsible and positive message to the arctic partner countries and the people living across the region. we seek to promote a safer, sustainable arctic. we respect the international agreements and arrangements, and would like to cooperate in their development and enhancement. in particular i would like to acknowledge the norwegian-russian delimitation agreement on the barents sea, which was signed last year, as a reference point for long-term peaceful cooperation in the overall circumpolar arctic region. the european union would like to see a reinforced and efficient arctic council, in which key decisions on the future of the region are agreed and implemented. we would like to participate in the arctic council as a permanent observer to share our solid experience in international regional cooperation, and we are particularly grateful for parliament’s endorsement of this endeavour. the high north report will give the european external action service and the commission a robust stimulus in our external action concerning the arctic region. i believe that its messages and approach are timely and appropriate. parliament’s high north report will also inform our own progress report on eu arctic policy, which the council has asked us to deliver later this year. our reporting will be addressed to both institutions, council and parliament, and we hope that it will be to your joint satisfaction.
on behalf of the ppe group - my colleagues! first of all, i would like to thank mr gallagher very much for his carefully prepared report. i am very pleased that the european union's policy towards the far north is one of the areas to which the european union has devoted attention relatively early on. the arctic is rich in resources - about a quarter of the world's unexplored oil and gas reserves, biogenetic and fish resources, and minerals. it also opens up new opportunities for maritime transport. the melting of ice has made possible a shorter sea route to asian countries by about 40%. the potential of the arctic is impressive. it is therefore important to manage it responsibly. both irresponsible use of resources and unplanned transport flows can have serious environmental consequences. at the same time, it should be recognised that exploiting the arctic's wealth can open up new opportunities for solving both energy, raw materials and food problems. the world's great powers are competing fiercely for greater rights to manage and use these resources. although the arctic is home to some 3.7 million people, representing dozens of indigenous peoples, it is still considered to be a global commons to some extent. the un has not yet recognized the privileges of any nation in the arctic, and hopefully it will not do so in the future. that is why our politicians must be responsible. the european union needs to develop a specific, coordinated strategy in all areas related to the far north, coordinating the funding needed and the sources thereof. climate change, the well-being and development of local populations, and energy security issues must also be taken into account. permanent observer status for the arctic council would be important for this. although we do not have a direct maritime border with the arctic, the european union can become a leader in exploring the region, both in terms of its resources and new sea routes, and in ensuring high environmental safety standards. thank you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, firstly i would like to express my gratitude and give my sincerest congratulations and compliments to the rapporteur and fellow shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation and understanding. i would also like to thank my fellow green members for their cooperation and contribution. we can finally say that we have come up with a decent document allowing us, the european union, to proceed in a fairly reasonable manner, taking into account all the interests of all stakeholders. even though the greens justifiably think that we should be even more radical, we are still glad that this report takes our worries and concerns into account, such as the proposals we made to the rapporteur concerning the fact that scientific data clearly demonstrates that the arctic ecosystem is currently going through massive climate-related changes and that this situation requires a precautionary and scientifically robust approach to be taken to any future development in the arctic. that is why we called for further scientific studies, within the framework of a multilateral agreement to be completed, to inform international understanding and decision-making for the arctic ecosystem before any further major development goes ahead. we thank the other groups for accepting that. this is an example of how to put things in a congenial form for our wide range of different constituencies. there are some sceptics in this room who have stated that the arctic region does not deserve our attention, but it does, particularly with iceland likely to become the 28th member of the eu. the arctic is ‘cool’. this is not because of climate change and the consequent warming-up of the normally cold high north. the arctic is also ‘cool’ because of the lucrative possibilities emerging on the horizon, even though they bring with them very complex and difficult problems. that is why i think politicians who tackle these problems in a responsible and politically subtle manner are ‘cool’ politicians, as are those of us who will vote for mr gahler’s report today.
mr president, we would like to move an oral amendment and to add the words ‘no later than’ after the words ‘eastern partnership activities’ in paragraph 13. we need this amendment because we need fast decisions concerning the relationship with belarus and especially concerning the decision on the eastern partnership and continued belarusian participation. we would like to ask for your support.
mr president, as one of the co-authors, i voted for this historic resolution, but there are two important messages to the high representative and the commission which should be carried out as soon as possible. firstly, the commission should develop, as a matter of urgency, an eu strategy on the enforcement of the right to freedom of religion, including a list of measures against states which knowingly fail to protect religious minorities. secondly, the commission should develop a permanent system within the human rights directorate of the external action service to monitor governmental restrictions on religious freedom and to report annually to parliament.
in writing. − i voted for the joint resolution on belarus, being one of its initiators on behalf of the ppe group. the resolution addresses in a clear and unambiguous way the tragic situation in belarus, created by its dictator lukashenka, since 19 december 2010. therefore, i would like to stress paragraph 15, which invites the eu member states not to weaken eu joint actions with bilateral initiatives that could undermine the credibility and effectiveness of the european approach. also, i see not holding the 2014 world ice hockey championships in minsk as being one of the most efficient levers in the proposal for exerting influence on the belarus authorities to abandon their repressive politics.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we all strongly condemn the brutal murder of the governor of punjab on 4 january. this murder was committed in the context that mr taseer opposed the notorious blasphemy law which has been a legal justification for the persecution and suppression of other religious groups. when expressing concern over the increased influence of extremists in pakistan, we also realise that moderate muslims and the pakistani government, of which mr taseer was an influential member, have suffered a grave loss and we offer our condolences to them. we are worried that the young lawyers praised the assassin, but we also take notice that an overwhelming majority of pakistani society has condemned this murder. it is important that influential religious authorities have called for the amendment of the blasphemy law, and this is also our demand. we wish the pakistani authorities all success in increasing their efforts to fight extremism there.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the murder of governor salmaan taseer is not only a private tragedy but a tragedy for democracy in pakistan. all the deplorable incidents and cases that have been outlined in the resolution altogether constitute an intimidating sign of pakistani society’s reluctance to move towards secularisation, and of the rise of religious extremism. how can pakistan even call itself a democracy when the freedom of religion that is granted by the constitution is completely ignored by applying the blasphemy laws, to which the late salmaan taseer was so opposed. i would like the european union to consider the ramifications of the application of such inhumane laws on relations with pakistan. pakistan would benefit in many aspects by repealing the blasphemy laws and revoking the penalties that have been based on those laws. i also would expect the government of pakistan to reinforce the measures that have been taken to fight the spread of violent extremism. violence causes violence and i am quite confident that pakistan cannot afford the escalation of a full-scale civil war with extremist groupings such as the taliban.
mr president, i support in principle the idea of a european competitiveness pact, making provision for harmonisation of the retirement age and, especially, speeding up the mutual recognition of academic and professional qualifications, as well as better coordinating research and development efforts. i stress the need to create a fully integrated european energy market by 2015. can i hope that, in four years’ time, estonia, latvia and lithuania will cease to be isolated energy islands where gas supplies are concerned? we expect a real breakthrough from the hungarian presidency in developing an integrated european network of gas, oil and electricity infrastructures and interconnections from the baltics to the adriatic sea. i also appeal to the council to safeguard sustainable local production of electricity by creating equal conditions for competition, both for eu and non-eu producers. it is also time that the problem of carbon leakages in the electricity sector was addressed at eu level. finally, it is regrettable that the eu foreign ministers failed to agree on the clear condemnation of sectarian attacks against christians in egypt and iran. two weeks ago parliament provided a solid basis for taking a strong, united position on this dramatic issue. the european council’s failure to react in time is bound to create an impression that defending traditional christian minorities outside europe is not an eu priority.
in writing. – the first conclusion to be drawn from the profound changes taking place in tunisia, egypt and elsewhere is that the democratic world was absolutely unprepared for them. the eu as well as the usa were caught by surprise and still have to improvise in reacting and accommodating themselves to these revolutionary developments. the same happened 20 years ago when the soviet union collapsed. it turned out that thousands of sovietologists had dismissed in their analyses the latent powerful force which finally disabled the soviet dictatorship - the will of the enslaved people for freedom. the current situation has exposed an inherent weakness of the fledgling european common foreign policy. it has exposed a chronic crisis of the values upon which the eu is officially based. in realpolitik, these values have systematically been neglected or undervalued in favour of stability or pragmatic short-sighted relationships. this is a moment to understand that looking away from the suppression of freedom with the justification of safeguarding stability and economic interests is bound to lead to devastating political mistakes. only genuine democracy can provide for a long-term stability. relying on autocratic regimes means increasing the bubble of self-deception which will explode sooner or later, resulting in grave moral losses for their democratic partners.
in writing. – i would like to echo the admiration expressed during the debate in respect of the courage of the people of both tunisia and egypt in expressing their discontent and disappointment with their respective regimes. by now the unrest has escalated to the point of no return and the european union must contribute to the transition process that has been sparked off. there have been some cautious voices calling for sustaining the status quo, especially in egypt, arguing that overthrowing the regime might lead to a civil war, which in turn might bring religious fundamentalists to power. i find that it is not our business to foretell the possible developments in those countries. i would like to remind you that when the eastern bloc was on the verge of collapsing, there were still some who would not have rocked the boat for fear of future instability in the region. let us not make that mistake and instead let us help the people of tunisia and egypt to lay the foundations for true democracies in the best way we can. i am confident that islam and democracy are not incompatible – indonesia, a democracy, has the largest muslim population in the world.
in writing. – the situation in the whole of north africa is indeed dangerous, yet at the same time hopeful. the regional characteristics will require a special focus on humanitarian and military capacity in order to provide security and stability. however, as we have seen that the eu is selling advanced military equipment such as mistral warships to russia, has anyone taken into consideration that russia has yet to undergo such democratic revolutions?
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on tunisia to express my solidarity with the wish of tunisian people to achieve freedom of expression and restore free elections. it is alarming that the eu has been caught by surprise when massive popular demonstrations against the previous authoritarian regime started. may these events remind us that stability of economic and political relations with our partners can be based only upon genuine democracy and full exercise of civil rights. i call on the high representative to promote the establishment of a task force to assist tunisia in its progress towards democracy.
in writing. - the respected manager! my dear colleagues! in the vote today, i supported the joint resolution by the four groups on the waste crisis in campania. let me explain why i did that. first, it is unacceptable that such a situation has been allowed to arise and that the italian local and national authorities have not been able to resolve the situation. at this rate, the garbage doesn't build up in a couple of days, it takes much longer. secondly, although i support today's resolution, i do not think that the european parliament should be the institution that has to deal with the collection of waste in the member states. thirdly, the european union has directives on waste, hazardous waste and landfills, which must be applied throughout europe, regardless of the member state. i expect a rapid and effective solution to the problem, mainly from the italian authorities but also from the european union. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. the respected manager! my dear colleagues! it is good to see that the european commission is working on a review of eu funding supporting smes, especially with a view to the next programming period. unfortunately, i have to point out that the additional support needed by smes was particularly acute during the last two and a half years, when many of them faced liquidity problems in the context of the economic crisis. in simple terms, the banks did not lend to smes or did so at extremely high interest rates, which further weighed on the situation of these companies. in estonia and the eu as a whole, smes account for more than 99% of all enterprises, and microenterprises account for 83% of all enterprises in estonia and around 92% in the eu. it is therefore important that funding is available to this large majority, especially in difficult crisis years. i sincerely hope that the european union and small and medium-sized enterprises will soon be able to lead the european economy to a new upswing and to be better prepared for future crises. the economic crisis that followed the current financial crisis was largely fuelled by the fact that smes were put in a difficult position by the banks and their liquidity was significantly reduced. smes employ more than two thirds of the people employed in an enterprise and generate two thirds of the value added. this must not be forgotten and must therefore be the driving force behind these companies.
mr president, i would like to inform european citizens that last week the deputy permanent representative of the russian federation to the european union warned me that the european parliament should neither have a debate nor adopt a resolution on the rule of law in russia this week, and that if this should this happen, it would provoke a strong reaction from the kremlin. colleagues, i wonder if i am the only member whom russian diplomats have tried to influence in such a manner. the actions of this particular russian diplomat are, frankly, shocking and not in line with good diplomatic practices. it sounds rather like a threat. i would like to assure you that we, the members of this freely and democratically elected parliament, cannot – and shall not – follow the dictates of the kremlin. we are not to be pushed around by putin. we are europeans who stand for real values and will not succumb to threats from anyone.
good reporter! the estonians have a saying: "a beautiful cake made of the mountain". unfortunately, however, this cannot be said of the directive on the rights of bus passengers, which ultimately, at the end of a long conciliation procedure, departed from the principles which the european parliament had called for. the good thing is that we now have minimum rights, but we cannot accept that the agreed 250 km route will deprive three countries of these rights and that another three or four countries will have minimum rights, because in those countries there are perhaps only one or two bus lines of this length. nor can it be accepted that crossborder bus routes of any length were excluded, nor can the eight-year period allowed to member states to not implement this directive be supported. unfortunately, the estonian government supported these very conditions and even more demanded a longer route. now we have to ask ourselves, are we supporting the rights of the bus passengers or are we supporting the rights of the bus companies and their profits? i am in any case in favour of the citizens of the european union and i do not understand why parts of europe are excluded from this directive. i cannot therefore vote in favour of this directive and report.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we consider russia to be an important partner of the european union. therefore, we expect russia to respect her international obligations and implement the constitutional rights of her own citizens. it is a fact that violations of human rights, civil liberties and the rule of law have become commonplace in russia. unlawfulness and widespread corruption led to the emigration of 300 000 citizens from russia last year alone. it is hard to envisage both foreign and domestic business investments in such a climate. the russian authorities are evidently implementing unconstitutional law and order. the situation in the north caucasus is one of the vilest examples of that. the russian constitution provides a basis for a multi-party system, but de facto it has become a one-party system with a marginalised parliament. i would like to ask the representative of the council which punitive measures and sanctions will be applied against the russian officials who are directly responsible for human rights abuses and perversion of the rule of law. the european union must be consistent in its policy towards third countries. it would discredit the european union if we turned a blind eye to some severe offences in some countries, while imposing sanctions on other countries for identical offences. we cannot continue normal relations unless concrete improvements are made in russia. we have to face the truth.
madam president, there has been a sequence of tens of independent journalists and civil activists being murdered in russia – for example politkovskaya, estemirova and magnitsky – but not one crime has been cleared up and not one murderer has been brought to justice. the kremlin regime, by its unwillingness to bring about justice and transparency, can be seen as complicit in these crimes. yesterday, the young assistant judge, natalya vasilyeva, dashed the network of falsehood around the khodorkovsky trial by declaring that the verdict was not reached by the judges, but was dictated to them from above. issuing a visa ban for the officials responsible for magnitsky and other cases is one concrete measure to show that the eu is serious about the improvement of the rule of law and transparency in russia. the fact that the russian authorities have become so nervous about the very idea of a visa ban shows what a huge positive potential the eu really has to bring about changes in the situation.
madam president, in my opinion mr werner schulz has drafted a resolution which is very well founded with arguments and draws correct conclusions. however, i am not sure that i understood the point made by mr fleckenstein. if the rules of procedure do not allow me to ask a question any more i would still like to put this to him. was he suggesting that we should refrain from supporting this resolution, or was he expressing the opposite, namely wholehearted socialist support for adopting it right now?
madam president, i was not sure whether mr fleckenstein was suggesting we support this resolution by werner schulz and others, or calling for us to refrain from adopting it at this part-session?
in writing. – the problem of independent courts and the imitation of democracy, free speech and rule of law seems to be understood by a wide audience. after all, the eu should know how to recognise such a problem. nonetheless, it seems bizarre, that at the same time some member states wish to override common understandings and even agreements, such as the eu common position 2008/944/cfsp. ceterum censeo – france has decided to sell a mistral class warship to russia; we believe that it will sincerely regret its action.
i voted against this document because the legislation in question does not guarantee equal treatment for passengers. on the one hand, in comparison with other modes of transport and, on the other, between passengers from different countries. this leaves several small eu member states out of the scope of the regulation. for several smaller member states, the legislation is partially effective. the problem was also not resolved for cross-border bus travel. the bus route is mainly used by passengers with lower incomes and by young people, i.e. students and students. therefore, the delayed entry into force of the regulation is also inadmissible.
in writing. - the respected manager! my dear colleagues! i voted against the report on the rights of bus passengers which was before us today because i think that this report does not take account of all the member states of the european union and excludes a large number of bus lines from the scope of the directive. the 250 km is clearly too long, as it completely excludes malta, cyprus and luxembourg. the distance also excludes most bus routes in estonia, latvia, lithuania, denmark, the netherlands and belgium. i regret to say that during the conciliation procedure the estonian government supported a distance even longer, up to 500 kilometres, which would have left estonia out entirely. i hope that it will not be long before the estonian government, too, will stand up for the rights of passengers, not for the big profits of the bus companies, during the procedure for the directive on the rights of bus passengers.
in writing. - the respected manager! my dear colleagues! i voted in favour of the report on the emission standards for new light commercial vehicles which was before us today. i believe that this report is necessary in view of the european union's objectives in relation to global warming and the reduction of emissions. however, it should be noted that the service is predominantly provided and the small commercial vehicles are used by small and medium-sized enterprises, so it is important to take into account their capacity to make the necessary modifications. i sincerely believe that the regulation introduced by this report is a good compromise, given the sme sector in europe and the overall objectives of the european union.
in writing. the pharmaceutical industry is one of the three most profitable industries. this is certainly one of the main reasons why the counterfeit drug market is so crowded. compared with five years ago, the number of counterfeit medicines seized by customs authorities last year increased by 384%. the adoption of uniform safety features across the european union, including for the repackaging of medicinal products, is essential to combat this. patients must have complete confidence that the medicines they are taking are what they expect and that the active substance on the prescription is the same as that in the medicine. from a public health perspective, effective, high-quality and safe medicines are essential. the disinformation campaigns of pharmaceutical companies by third parties who have been granted marketing authorisations by the competent authorities should be prohibited. that prohibition should also be extended to advertising and information for medical professionals.
i am very pleased that we have dealt with this report and received it today. i voted for it, too. i am glad that this report does not impose any pressure on the member states but takes account of the principle of subsidiarity: it gives guidelines, not orders. it is clear that the report aims to give a new impetus to the pension system in terms of its sustainability. the report provides new ideas for member states to approach their pension systems to make them more adequate. the report takes a positive approach to a number of issues, including mobility and transferability, retirement age, the framework for pension systems, its link to the 2020 strategy. it is also positive that the report provides for a review of eu legislation. i also supported the creation of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, because the economic crisis has shown us that we need such an authority.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this resolution, as it highlights one of the crucial problems we are currently facing. the crisis in the financial sector has led to more collateral and higher-risk premiums, which means it has become much more difficult to get start-up credits and other financial resources. we cannot afford to have smes suffering from greater burdens and higher administrative costs. we cannot afford to have smes falling bankrupt because of bureaucracy and because of stricter rules in the financial sector. smes are the driving force of our economies – they should not be punished for mismanagement in the financial sector. it is important that we pass such resolutions frequently enough to remind ourselves, the commission and the member states of our obligations to ensure a sustainable economy. this is only possible with sustainable smes.
in writing. - the respected manager! my dear colleagues! i voted today in favour of a resolution in favour of financing small and medium-sized enterprises. i believe that the situation of smes and the use of eu funds must be made more efficient and that it must be ensured that the liquidity crisis of the financial crisis, which particularly affected smes, is not repeated. in estonia, as in the european union as a whole, smes account for more than 99% of all enterprises, and it is therefore important that funding is available to this large majority, especially in difficult crisis years. i sincerely hope that the european union and small and medium-sized enterprises will soon be able to lead the european economy to a new upswing and to be better prepared for future crises.
in writing. in the second half of 2010, wholesale prices of agricultural products have risen by 32%. world cereal consumption has increased from 21 million tonnes in 1990 to 41 million tonnes in 2005 to 2010. various analysts believe that a major food crisis in 2011 is real, and all it would take is one aging crop. the largest exporting countries (russia, ukraine, china, mexico) are already forced to import in order to secure their supplies. the reasons for price increases have become blurred, and it is no longer possible to speak of mere trends in the agricultural market. recent price increases have been dramatic and unpredictable, driven by various speculations. i would point out that the growing use of biofuels is also taking more and more crops off the table for humans and animals. this has created a very nervous environment where we have to accept that rising food prices are driving up inflation, fuelling protectionism and creating unrest, all of which could lead to social, economic and political instability both in europe and globally. as the world's largest food importer, europe has a very large impact on global food prices, but this also makes europe very vulnerable to various price shocks. i support the european commission's efforts to adopt a new legislative package by spring 2011 which would give the commission greater powers to regulate the market and prevent speculation. the eu must find the means to ensure sustainable prices and a sustainable economy. a balance needs to be struck between protection and openness and development. we must be prepared to face possible crises.
mr president, i voted for this resolution. however, as a result of compromises, paragraph 8 has become too ambiguous and non-committal. the eu must take concrete measures to show that it is serious about the need for a real improvement of the rule of law situation in russia. while economic and political contacts need to be continued, a clear signal should be sent to those state officials who are considered responsible for grave breaches of law that they are not welcome in the capitals or tourist resorts of europe. against this background, i do not consider it proper to officially invite president medvedev to address the european parliament until he has lived up to his promises to improve the rule of law situation in russia.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i find it appalling that, in the 21st century, there are some political forces that keep operating in a 19th century paradigm. growing nationalism in many parts of the world is giving rise to conflicts based on ethnicity as well as on religion. the governments of thailand and cambodia must consider that the border clashes have an impact on peace and stability in the region as well as on relations between the two countries. even if there are unresolved political issues between countries, it should not reflect on people-to-people contacts. otherwise there is an imminent danger of growing nationalism as well as xenophobia. the situation on the border between thailand and cambodia should be resolved peacefully in accordance with the ruling of the international court of justice of 1962. the beginning of this year has seen already far too much bloodshed around the world.
in writing. – mr president, vice-president of the commission, the murder of david kato kisule was a tremendous tragedy for his family and friends as well as a great loss for the lgbt and human rights movement in sub-saharan africa. i find it astounding that this horrific act has been treated by the ugandan authorities with marked indifference. the martyrdom of david kato and the discrimination against the lgbt minorities should be addressed vocally with the ugandan authorities. david kato’s efforts would have been in vain if the bahati anti-homosexuality bill were to pass in the parliament of uganda without a firm international reaction. the european union must exert pressure on the ugandan authorities to decriminalise homosexuality and reject the use of the death penalty under any circumstances. uganda must fulfil her obligations under international law and the cotonou agreement, which commits uganda to protect all persons, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity, against threats and violence. it would be a serious infringement if the ugandan government and judiciary were to encourage and exercise such violence themselves. the european union and its member states must make use of the conditionality of development assistance and cease sponsoring such governments.
madam president, i would like to point to one minor area in which we could save money, which is software. we pay bill gates a huge sum of money annually for using his windows software. he may be a nice chap who donates a lot of that money to good causes, but if we were to use open software more bravely in this house it would be a step towards cleaner, cheaper and modern management.
mr. bloom, you know that in europe, women are more educated than men, including in your country. so why do you think that when quotas are set in companies, one third of that quota goes to educated women, who may be in our societies?
happy spring women's day to all! gender equality is not just about differences and social justice. gender equality is a prerequisite for sustainable economic growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion. investing in gender equality measures pays off in higher levels of female employment rates, women's contribution to gdp, higher tax revenues and sustainable birth rates. many people today still have a medieval understanding of gender equality. we heard it at some of the performances. there's a monster in the picture, and the monster's name is quota. they forget or they don't want to see that quotas don't bring decision-making, don't bring stupid women to power. women in europe are more educated, they are able to take responsibility, they are able to work well and get a fair wage for their work. and the countries that use the quota, that started using it a couple of decades ago, i mean the nordic countries, have shown that we can achieve this goal through this instrument, and today, the behaviour of society has been re-conceived, and quotas are no longer needed to the extent that they were. society takes for granted the participation of women in all areas of society. i would love to talk a lot about poverty and single mothers, but i don't have time. thank you to everyone who gave meaningful speeches. one day we'll win anyway!
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. today's vote supported a report on innovative finance in the world and in europe. the only proposal not to be supported was a proposal to ask the commission to examine the feasibility of an eu carbon tax, modelled on a vat, on every product in the internal market. it is pleasing to note that support was found in the main points, which asked the commission to examine the appropriateness, feasibility and consequences of various new taxes. the banking, financial activity and financial transaction levies each have their own economic purpose and different revenue generating potential, which is why it is important that a thorough analysis is carried out before any additional levies are imposed. it was supported and considered that the financial transaction tax, if introduced, should be introduced as far as possible. meps, including myself, also called for a definition of who would ultimately pay this tax, since the burden of taxation usually falls on the consumer, who in this case would be retail investors and individuals. thank you!
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. the vote today supported the report on agriculture and international trade, which also deals largely with the import of genetically modified food and feed into europe. it is also welcome that a point has been found supporting the commission's strong defence of eu rules on the authorisation and marketing of genetically modified organisms against the demands of the wto. in essence, this means that any use of gmos will remain strictly regulated, and this will improve both food safety and the situation of our farmers. several items on the taxation of imports of different groups of agricultural products and the quality requirements for these products were also supported. in addition to gmo-related issues, general food safety issues were also addressed, such as the continued failure of brazil to achieve eu producer and consumer standards for food safety, animal identification and traceability, animal health and disease surveillance. the massive use of pesticides banned in europe in brazil and the resulting imports of the products into europe are also a cause for concern. thank you!
in writing. − i voted against the call to easy access to abortion in paragraph 66 of the original text. whereas i recognize the individual's right to decide on his/her own body, i underline that any decision to undergo abortion also means deciding to end the life of another human being. furthermore, if this decision is made it should always include the consent of both parents (except in cases of serious illness, rape). calling for easy access to abortion is therefore misleading and gives society the message that abortion could be used as contraception and need not take any moral and ethical values into account. in today's european society where people are better informed and have easier access to healthcare than ever before, we must support responsible behaviour, which includes taking responsibility for one’s actions. calling for easy access to abortion is contrary to taking such responsibility. abortion is too often used as an easy way out of a difficult situation. the eu should not support such behaviour, but should give subsidiarity to the member states.
i'd like to start by congratulating the reporter. europe needs a new approach to the financing of industrial policy and related infrastructure. in addition to structural reforms, the european union's financial perspective must focus on innovative financing measures. i am not talking about eurobonds or project bonds, but about completely new approaches to industrial policy, research and development and innovation funding. we need to reach out to innovative small businesses and help them grow. new ways must be found to help businesses share risks and combine different instruments, including at european level. estonia has experience with, for example, renewable funds that guarantee risks instead of granting grants and direct aid. in the innovation cycle, such funds can significantly increase the amount of funding targeted at enterprises. the grants are important, but we need to find new ways to use public money more efficiently in the early stages of research.
mr president, yesterday many members of our house met the representatives of the interim council of libya, whose message was absolutely clear: they need international support and aid and they need it very quickly. therefore the first thing we must do, as many colleagues have already said, is start to establish relations with the interim council in order to legitimise their activities. we have to recognise them. secondly, we all know, and many colleagues have said this, that people are still being killed every minute by gaddafi’s air forces in libya and we must therefore, as a european union, be ready and act fast, together with the united nations and the arab league, to establish the no-fly zone. my last point concerns humanitarian issues. these people need simple elementary things such as food, water and medical supplies, and they also need technical assistance. even the military on the side of the opposition need technical assistance so they can connect online with each other.
mr president, i was encouraged by your opening statement, mrs ashton, especially when you mentioned that our actions must be rooted in the eu core values, because spontaneous protests in north africa have shown that undemocratic rulers cannot provide genuine stability. we have to realise that attempts to domesticate brutal dictators like gaddafi have failed, causing much embarrassment. people in libya are fighting for the same values we share and we need to clearly take their side. the same value-based approach applies to our future policies towards states like iran, belarus, cuba, china and russia. what we have to do in two days’ time is to back a no-fly zone, immediately recognise the interim national council and address the social and economic causes of these revolutions. i think we cannot do without a long-term marshall-type plan.
mr president, now that the eu is calling for an immediate end to the brutal gaddafi dictatorship and insists on completely isolating him, the same applies to the brutal and bloody iranian regime. cherishing hopes for confidence building is not a realistic option any more, especially since tehran has completely eroded its credibility regarding its nuclear programme. instead, we should address the great potential of people-led democratic change in iran. true, this change cannot be imposed from outside. however, the eu's priority should be to extend our clear moral and political support to these forces. i have especially in mind blacklisting top iranian officials (ms schaake mentioned eighty names), supporting the start of farsi-language euronews broadcasts and insisting that parliamentary relations – if any – should be conducted under strict conditionality.
in writing. – in light of the current situation in north africa, and taking into account the fact that human rights are being violated more than ever across the world, the work of the unhrc needs to be reformed. the unhrc has to act in time and to react efficiently to the new challenges. regrettably, this is not the reality. the problem could be partly solved if additional meetings beyond the current sessions would take place. further, the unhrc needs to seriously review its membership to make sure that its members fulfil the minimum criteria. it is shameful that dictatorships, such as libya, could so easily take a seat in the body intended to safeguard human rights. more than ever, the credibility of the unhrc is being challenged by politically motivated behaviour. using the eea, the eu now has an opportunity to speak with one voice and to function as a global actor. the vice-president/high representative has to make sure that the actions are coherent and that an efficient coordination takes place between the eu representations in geneva and new york. there is no practical alternative to eu value-based foreign policy.
madam president, i voted, of course, for this resolution. but i think it is urgent that the european council, which is meeting tomorrow, acts as soon and as decisively as possible, firstly, to establish a no-fly zone over libya to prevent its government from continuing to kill its citizens and, secondly, to establish relations with the interim national council. we added this call to our resolution. but, all in all, i think a passage in the resolution needs to be stressed: that the revolutionary changes in north africa have made it clear that the eu’s positive impact and long-term credibility in that region will depend on its ability to conduct a cohesive common foreign policy that is value-based and will clearly side with the new democratic forces.
madam president, having voted in favour of this resolution, i think it is now time to apply the same approach to the tehran regime as we have been applying to libya and colonel gaddafi. in other words, cherishing hopes for confidence-building is not a realistic option any more. we should support more opposition in iran. i am especially worried about the ashraf opposition camp, which has been under siege and under pressure since july 2009. the humanitarian situation there is intolerable. parliament adopted a resolution in april 2009 and a written declaration last november on the subject of that camp, and i would advise baroness ashton to take this serious message to the european council tomorrow.
in writing. – to lose one advocate of freedom of religion is a misfortune; to lose two is downright carelessness. when we discussed the murder of governor salman taseer, i warned about the rise of religious extremism in pakistan. less than two months later, another tragedy has come to pass. the taliban movement in punjab has claimed responsibility for the assassination of minister shahbaz bhatti. his request for the use of a bulletproof car had been denied by the pakistani authorities. such negligence by the authorities makes them an accomplice to the killing. i would like to hope that the european union will address the murders of those high-ranking officials in pakistan with the authorities there and call on them to repeal the blasphemy laws that have caused the escalation of religious violence.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it was in january when we adopted a resolution on belarus. it is not a good sign at all that we have to express our concerns on the situation there again and again, with no positive reaction from the belarusian authorities. although the european union has re-established sanctions and taken a hard line on lukashenko’s regime, fundamental rights such as freedom of assembly and of expression are still violated and trampled upon. furthermore, the reports on continuous mental and physical torture of political prisoners and attempts at recruiting informants to the kgb give the european union a clear signal that lukashenko’s regime did not get our message from the previous time. perhaps we ought to speak up and make it even clearer that the situation in belarus is unacceptable. i would like to ask the commission to report on further measures that can be taken against lukashenko’s regime. i would also like to call on european enterprises and investors to withdraw from belarus if they have no desire to be handling blood money and directly or indirectly supporting lukashenko’s criminal regime.
author. − mr president, uyghurs have practically become a minority in their historic homeland. they need international support to preserve their culture and identity. in fact the fate of the ancient city of kashgar is in the balance. a modernisation programme has slated up to 85% of the traditional old city of kashgar for demolition. it is important to prevent the historic fortress being replaced by modern appartment blocks. if the chinese authorities are serious about convincing us that all will be well, they have to first of all convince the native population of east turkestan that their cultural heritage really will be respected and that the uyghur language will be taught in schools on an equal level with the chinese language. i call on the chinese authorities to accept possible contributions by icomos, which has impressive experience in the management of urban historic landscapes, and i ask the chinese government to agree to lift kashgar to unesco world heritage status that will include several cultural sites along the ancient silk road.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is well known that uyghuria is in imminent danger of becoming a second tibet. the people’s republic of china has announced a ‘kashgar dangerous house reform’, the purpose of which is to raze 85 per cent of the old city in kashgar. such philistinism must be stopped and the european union must insist that the authorities of the people’s republic of china do not destroy this important cultural site on the ancient silk road. the un declaration of the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities as well as the constitution of the people’s republic of china must be respected, even by beijing. the people’s republic of china is more and more exercising sinicisation of ethnic minorities such as the uyghurs and the tibetans. it is a cultural genocide in the 21st century, which we simply cannot accept.
mr president, today the ppe group meeting room was officially named after one of the founding fathers of the european union: alcide de gasperi. in his time, the key to solving the crisis was a supranational approach, taking care of european common interests first. he was among those statesmen who, although born in the 19th century, were able to develop a vision of the europe of the 21st century. reversing the economic crisis today needs statesmanship which is not geared to the next elections and does not concentrate first and foremost on national salvation but which has a care for the next generations and europe as a whole. as for the european council, i welcome the new text of the stability mechanism, as well as the euro area reform package. second, i hope that the competitiveness pact will prove credible and will also attract non-euro area members. it is important that every government makes significant national pledges to improve our competitive position. third, as with the single market, i am a bit worried that its ambitious targets have been substantially curtailed and its operational efficiency could become almost non-relevant. therefore, while deciding on new steps, let us prove our political will and credibility by completing the four freedoms on which european cooperation is based, including the internal market, and implementing in full the services directive.
in writing. – madam president, i would like to convey my sincerest condolences to the people of japan, who have suffered from a terrible natural disaster during past weeks. japan is being provided with assistance from the european union, as well as from the member states. the european union will continue with any kind of assistance that the japanese government regards appropriate to help them get through this terrible crisis. however, the nuclear power plant alerts in fukushima have provoked an emotional debate over the use of nuclear energy in the european union in general. i would advise everyone to consider their positions dispassionately and keep in mind that the use of automobiles was not forbidden when an irish scientist, mary ward, was thrown out of, and run over by, her cousin’s steam car on 31 august 1869. instead we should learn our lesson and increase investments both into nuclear safety and innovative research. fossil fuel resources are exhaustible and renewable energy is still very much experimental. nuclear energy, on the other hand, could hold the key to our future. if the first cavemen had been afraid of fire, we would still be living in the stone age.
in writing. – studies from the commission show that one in three eu citizens purchase goods online, but only 7% do cross-border online shopping. thirty-three per cent would be interested in buying cross-border. the field is still unregulated and it is complicated to purchase goods online, especially with regard to delivery and transaction costs. the proposal for a directive on consumer rights aims to reduce the complications for online actions. i very much welcome improved rights for consumers purchasing online. we need to have full information on the traders, with their names, addresses and contact details. the rules across the eu need to be harmonised, so that we do not face unpleasant surprises and extra costs. i welcome the harmonisation of the right of withdrawal within 14 days. we have to protect the consumers, but we also have to boost the economy. i fully support the rapporteur’s efforts to balance this. implementing the consumers’ rights directive is one aspect of the problem, with full integration and implementation of single digital market, the eu’s internal market and the services directive being another issue. the eu and its member states have to focus on both.
in writing. the adoption of a new harmonised european consumer rights directive is certainly one of the most important prerequisites for the better functioning of the community's internal market. the harmonised directive, which brings together the various consumer rights directives, will significantly simplify the legal framework and help to increase consumer confidence and facilitate cross-border trade. in order to make trade, that is to say the supply chain, more transparent, and in particular in e-commerce, it is necessary to ensure that the contact details of traders are available so that the consumer can contact them directly where necessary. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposals in this respect. the directive is sufficiently balanced from the consumer and the economic operator's point of view and sufficiently flexible to take account of the differences between the member states. full harmonisation of consumer protection is not yet a reality in the european union, but a major step towards better consumer protection and trade has been taken.
mr president, i am sorry to inform you at this late hour that this afternoon a group of estonian cyclists were kidnapped by armed men in lebanon’s eastern bekaa valley. the estonians had crossed into lebanon from syria earlier in the day and were intercepted at about 17.30 by armed men in three vehicles with no licence plates. there is no information at the moment as to who kidnapped the cyclists or whether the incident was politically motivated. however, the bekaa valley is a stronghold of the islamist hezbollah movement. i would like to plead with baroness ashton, despite her constant and necessary involvement in libya, to help resolve the situation. it is a challenge for the established european external action service to provide for smaller member states to help the citizens of the eu in distressing situations such as this.
there is value in european action together, and the euro area can only move in two directions: either to strengthen or to disintegrate. in the current economic climate, a substantive and decisive political response is needed. i support the creation of a stabilisation mechanism and in this connection i also supported the report which paves the way for the legal framework to enable the mechanism to be implemented.
legal immigration undoubtedly plays a major role in promoting european economic development and improving competitiveness. however, one of the most acute problems is certainly the lack of a secure legal status for immigrants and the consequent potential for discrimination against them. the fact that in the 21st century we can still observe the essential elements of a slave system is not normal. all people must be treated equally in the labour market. this report contained provisions which are not present in our legislation today, and i therefore supported the creation of a legal framework in this area as very important.
the adoption of a harmonised european consumer rights directive is undoubtedly one of the measures to improve the functioning of the community's internal market. this harmonised directive, which brings together the various consumer rights directives, will considerably simplify the legal framework and will undoubtedly help to increase consumer confidence, while also encouraging cross-border trade. it's a step towards reducing fragmentation. unfortunately, full harmonisation of consumer protection in the european union is not yet a reality, but an important step towards better consumer protection and trade has been taken. i supported the adoption of this document.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the eu relations with the gulf cooperation council. i would like to point out my support for the oral amendments introduced by the rapporteur mr baudis to update the report in the light of recent developments. it is important to call on all member states of the gulf cooperation council to recognize the continuing popular movement for democratic reform within the wider region with the appeal to the emerging civil society groups to promote the process of genuine peaceful democratic transition within their respective countries.
in writing. unfortunately, violence against women has not been stopped in europe and globally, despite the fact that the european union and the un have declared the fight against violence against women to be their priority. it is true that some progress has been made and that people's awareness of the issue has increased somewhat, but new political priorities for the european union are essential to boost the fight against violence against women and to achieve our common goals of ensuring that women and children do not live in constant fear of being victims of violence. the treaty of lisbon also creates legal competence for this purpose. i think it is extremely important that eu legislation should pay more attention to violence in close relationships, because this is not a private matter. unfortunately, victims are too afraid of their family's reputation and, rightly so, of their own safety and financial dependence to turn to law enforcement. therefore, particular attention should also be paid to developing a victim support system and to breaking down social taboos, i.e. raising awareness. victim support must be real and guaranteed. the problem is certainly the lack of shelters for women and children who have been victims of violence in europe, which is why the objective of establishing one shelter for victims of crime per 10 000 inhabitants is both reasonable and necessary. in order to better ensure the protection of women fleeing violence and persecution, even if they change their place of residence within europe, it is important to implement the european directive on restraints.
madam president, the results of the european council could be seen as politically and institutionally satisfactory, but the message from today’s debate is that the crisis is not over. president barroso has said that the economic situation remains difficult and uncertain, mr verhofstadt has confirmed that we are filling in the holes, but that the crisis has not been solved, and president van rompuy has said that the problems remain. this is the result of past mistakes and the lack of appropriate instruments. we need to draw conclusions about how these past mistakes happened and how the staggering debt burden and deficits were created. what was wrong with the policies of member states and the eu institutions? without thorough analysis and conclusions, that should become a commitment for all involved, we cannot avoid repeating the same mistakes. the central issue remains enhancing competitiveness. i hope that the commission’s new single market act will be truly ambitious. at least the digital single market topic has made a breakthrough into eu priorities. last but not least, this week the new estonian government will be confirmed. at the recent elections, estonian voters demonstrated anti-european tendencies, returning the existing government with an increased majority despite heavy cuts in the budget … (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european council of 24 and 25 march reached a number of decisions which i consider to be important and which could no longer be postponed. the most important decision in relation to european economic policy is the euro plus pact, which sets out a common agenda and objectives. the four main objectives are to promote competitiveness, promote employment, enhance the sustainability of public financing and restore financial stability. in addition to the euro area, several other member countries, such as latvia, lithuania, poland, denmark, romania and bulgaria, joined the pact. i think it is extremely important at this time to reach common agreements establishing equal rules and uniform mechanisms to achieve the desired objectives. i would like to pay particular tribute to those member states which are not members of the euro area but have nevertheless joined this pact. it is hoped that the introduction of uniform rules will also lead to a convergence of national perceptions, in particular on the sustainability of public financing, in order to avoid situations such as those experienced by greece and ireland in the future. however, it is not possible to limit oneself to the present decisions, since they will only produce short-term results. it is necessary to develop solutions for the future investment, whether through eurobonds or some other solution. thank you!
in writing. - the respected manager! my dear colleagues! i voted in favour of the report on european tourism statistics which was before us today. i think this report is important in view of the impact of the tourism sector on the european union's economy and its contribution to employment. 1.8 million enterprises employ some 10 million people, which is about 5.2% of employment. the european union is providing considerable support for the development of tourism in different regions in order to increase the availability of different types of tourism. accurate and relevant statistics are therefore necessary, both for the private and public sectors. the european union receives over 370 million foreign tourists a year, accounting for 40% of the world's total. it also adds importance to the availability of timely and fair statistical data. thank you!
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i see an urgent need to improve the conditions for smes so as to make europe really competitive in the world. it has been proved on countless occasions that the reduction of bureaucratic burdens on smes has resulted in economic growth and enhanced their competitiveness. not enough efforts have been made to enable smes operate with fewer bureaucratic obstacles and with more efficiency. smes are the driving force of europe's economy. there are also dramatic developments going on in the e-world. currently the eu is not really competitive on e-markets. this means we have to do everything we can to boost e-commerce, making real progress in implementing the european digital single market. important steps have been taken, but more remains to be done and we have to progress fast. i welcome the efforts this report has proposed to further the issue in question.
in writing. – mr president, although the situation in syria, bahrain and yemen is something that ought to be addressed urgently, i would like to draw your attention to the alarming situation in lebanon, where seven citizens of the eu from estonia are held captive. i would like to thank baroness ashton for her prompt reply and her reassurance two weeks ago that the matter will be treated on the highest possible level in the eu. we have now received the information that the abductors, claiming to be members of the ‘renaissance and reform movement’ have handed in an obscure ransom note that says that they will announce their further demands at a later time. the seven estonian citizens are told to be alive. i would like to plea to baroness ashton to get involved in the resolution of the hostage crisis in her capacity as the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. there are european lives at stake and this requires urgently the instant attention of the european external action service. this is a chance for baroness ashton to demonstrate what she is actually made of.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, a small country always causes a lot of headaches to the eu when it wants to join, and iceland’s headaches as we know are fisheries, the environment and everything else the commissioner mentioned. however, we have a recipe and this chamber could adopt a more welcoming attitude, because small countries need to be treated tenderly. i always admire mr tannock’s principled, political approach towards the acquis and what iceland is or is not doing. this time, however, my group and i disapprove of the radical tone of those amendments and that is why we very much ask for a compromise to be found by tomorrow with the rapporteur. i already envisage six extra chairs in this parliament and an extra booth for interpreters.
madam president, i would like to draw your attention to the frozen conflict in the nagorno-karabakh region, which is an inseparable part of the republic of azerbaijan. whenever the neighbourhood policies or other policies involving the south caucasus region are being discussed, the territorial integrity of azerbaijan, and also of georgia, should always be kept in mind. parliament must respect the fact that the nagorno-karabakh region is internationally recognised as part of azerbaijan, although it is occupied by the armenian military forces and, as we know, supported politically by the kremlin authorities. this acknowledgement should always be reflected in documents and statements both in parliament, the council and the commission. all initiatives by the eu side to obscure this fact must be discouraged in order to move towards a peaceful and legitimate resolution of the frozen conflict in nagorno-karabakh and in the region.
member of the commission. − madam president, i appreciate one very important element, namely that we, the commission and parliament, are approaching the review of our neighbourhood policy in parallel. it is not a situation, as with many other policies, where we come here with a product that has already been finalised and then have a discussion. we entered into the process some time ago and, through interaction, we have been able to take a number of parliament’s good ideas on board already and to explain a number of our ideas. the long list of speakers who have made a number of valuable suggestions and asked good questions is proof that this approach was the right one. in the lisbon treaty, which was also agreed and voted in this house, we set high ambitions. we agreed to have the european union as a global player. catherine ashton, vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, and i are both of the opinion that we could hardly deliver on this expectation without, first of all, playing a truly constructive role in our neighbourhood and that we could hardly play such a role without addressing the challenges of our neighbourhood, including the protracted conflict. it was with that in mind that together we started the review process in june last year. at that time our ambitions were, firstly, to reflect on the new instruments brought in by the lisbon treaty. there are big changes with regard to external action with the substitution of the six months’ presidency and its priorities in external relations by the consistent and coherent policy that is guaranteed by a person with a dual role, combining the cfsp community instrument, and also having for the first time capacities in the external action service. embassies have also been upgraded in order to represent not only the commission but also the european union. these are huge things. i know that there are a lot of challenges, questions and even criticisms here and there, but i am confident that these changes will deliver on a more coherent eu policy on external action. we wanted that to be reflected in our neighbourhood policy. we also wanted to do one of the important things that we sensed was missing. looking at neighbourhood, we were lacking the feeling of ownership of these countries in the neighbourhood policy. some of our partners were saying that the neighbourhood policy had been imposed on them and that they had actually never been consulted. so, they believe that their views were not being taken into account and that there was one scheme that was being applied to all, without taking the specificities into account. but then the arab revolution came. it has offered us a mirror –which i think was very much needed – for asking important questions, such as how ready we are to complement the aspirations of emerging democracies, how far we are ready to go to deal with the situations like the one we face in libya, and how long we should make compromises here and there and associate stability with autocracy, accepting that we have not always had the values in the same place as our interests. our communication of 8 march was an attempt to answer some of those questions – to be absolutely frank with you, the easy questions – because we have actually answered only those that related to the emerging democracies. we left the more difficult questions for the strategic enp review. many of them still need to be answered. in that communication of 8 march we defined three basic pillars, which you will also see reflected in the strategic review. the first one supports the democratic transformation and institution building in our neighbouring states. in the second, the focus is on the relationship with societies and support for civil societies. the third gives support to inclusive and sustainable growth among our neighbours. many countries in the south are changing, change which is not limited to those countries but to the whole region. they are also changing us and the way we react to the situation – the way in which we will proactively react and pursue these new phenomena in our neighbourhood. it will have repercussions in the east and there is a lesson-learned process in our joint thinking with our eastern partners. this reflection on the east is not taking place at the expense of the south and the events in the south and our current interest and focus on the south are not at the expense of our interest in the east. the enp review process will strengthen the need for a balanced approach to our neighbourhood, whether it is the east or the south. there is a new momentum to substitute, sometimes, preferred real politics in our neighbourhood by an ambitious and much more proactive policy based on our values. there is also a momentum to be clear on what we want to achieve with, or through, the instruments of the neighbourhood policy. a couple of years ago we referred to the peace, stability and prosperity zone. it is an important concept, which is still valid, but the partners want more. in the east some of them are very clear as far as european aspirations are concerned. those in the south want to have a more institutionally defined framework for economic integration. should we shy away from offering our thoughts on these issues? i do not think so. i think we should make it clear that the eastern partnership is not to way to keep eu membership from the countries in the east but it is a way for them to build more of the european union inside their countries. i think we need to make an offer to those most advanced countries in the south – a kind of framework for them to be a part, not of decision-making, but decision-shaping. do not expect a very technical straightjacket for bilateral relations with our neighbours. expect only very few, but very clear and very important benchmarks. expect, as a result of this enp review, a flexible and individually tailored structure and an interaction which works well between political steering on one side and our programmes and technical and financial assistance on the other. it is not going to be an easy process. no change is easy but, compared to its predecessor, this is to be an ongoing process where the review capabilities, or if you like a capacity for feedback or a reality check, will be an important quality incorporated in this review of the enp. many of you talked about money. the higher our ambitions are, the more resources they will require. the logic here is very clear. but is it only about money? absolutely not. it is also about our creativity, our coherence, taking seriously the interests of our partners and being ambitious as far as opening our trade market and tackling the mobility issue are concerned. the jasmine revolution was very much about dignity and equity. let us then turn these two issues – dignity and equity – into the principles our policy will be based upon. parliament has a very important role to play in this regard.
in writing. – all european countries which fulfil the eu accession criteria should have the prospect of eu membership. the enp eastern dimension should clearly value this underlying principle as such, and ensure that our neighbours in eastern europe will be able to concretely see a reliable prospect of future membership. the strongest incentive for democratic and political reforms and creating civil society is, and will remain, the prospect of eu membership. while future applicants should do their homework in full, the eu has to prove without any doubt that our commitment to enlargement remains valid and credible. to strengthen this credibility and to diffuse any doubts about double standards, the eu should make it absolutely clear that relations with our eastern neighbours must be grounded first and foremost on democratic values, respect for human rights and the rule of law. as each country should be assessed on its own merits, the basic values must be equally respected in every country, notwithstanding concrete economic and political interests of particular member states. the same principles should be applied to relations with russia, where the rule of law and human rights situation is worse than in most enp countries.
madam president, sexual assaults against women –and in some cases also against men – in north africa and the middle east are a grave concern and need to be addressed promptly by the authorities in the region, both the new democratic forces and the older regimes. i would like to call on the vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, baroness ashton, to discuss the devastating situation with regard to sexual violence in this region with representatives of the target countries in the context of the southern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy, with a view to bringing the perpetrators to justice and securing respect for the human rights of both women and men. i consider that sexual violence is the worst sort of warfare. it should be avoided at all cost and should be punished in the harshest possible way.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. in today's vote, i supported the resolutions on the review of the european neighbourhood policy in both its eastern and southern dimensions. these resolutions are particularly important in the light of recent developments in the southern region. in particular, the strong demands of the population of several countries in the eu's southern neighbourhood for the overthrow of dictatorships and the aspirations for democracy must be taken into account. the strategic review of the european neighbourhood policy needs to take full account of these developments and reflect them. both resolutions, in their southern and eastern dimensions, stress the importance of mutually beneficial cooperation between the eu and the various neighbouring countries in order to ensure the necessary developments in democracy, human rights, as well as in the economic and security spheres. the stability and prosperity of europe are closely linked to the democratic governance and economic and social progress of the enp southern neighbourhood, which is why it is important to support political dialogue, full freedoms, democratic reforms and the rule of law in the enp partner countries. thank you!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, reports on the worrying human rights situation in the people’s republic of china have become more and more frequent. in parliament, we have this issue on our agenda for almost every session. like the usual cycles of repression, the recent crackdown has already lasted for a while, which might be signalling a power struggle between reformers and hardliners in the communist party. the chinese government has made it harder to access foreign websites, blocked encryption software used to jump what is colloquially known as ‘the great firewall of china’, obstructed access to googlemail and intensified arrests, including that of the internationally renowned artist and critic of the regime, ai wei wei. resolute action is needed. i therefore call on the high representative, baroness ashton, to make a démarche with beijing. ai wei wei must be released now.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the detention of the distinguished chinese artist ai wei wei at beijing airport on 3 april as he was attempting to travel to hong kong, has rightly drawn international concern. the delegation of the european union to china and a public statement immediately condemned the increasing use of arbitrary detention against human rights defenders, lawyers and activists in china, and underline the eu’s concerns regarding ai wei wei. at the moment, we have no information concerning mr ai’s whereabouts, and i wish to emphasise today that the eu’s view on arbitrary detention and disappearance is that it constitutes a grave violation of human rights and is unacceptable in all circumstances. we call for the immediate release of ai wei wei. moreover, as the resolution before this house makes clear, the detention of ai wei wei is only one among many recent incidents of arbitrary detention and disappearance in china. several prominent chinese lawyers who frequently act for defendants in human rights cases are reported to have been arrested by police officials since february and have not been seen since. concerns about their treatment are only intensified by the ongoing disappearance of the lawyer gao zhisheng who, with the exception of a brief reappearance in april 2010, has now been missing for over two years. the high representative is worried about reports based on interviews with mr gao in april 2010, that during his initial period of disappearance he was detained incommunicado in a variety of unauthorised places of detention and subjected to improper treatment. there are, moreover, reports that in recent weeks a significant number of bloggers and political activists have either been charged with criminal offences, such as subverting state power, or have been detained without charge. i can assure this house that the vice-president/high representative, catherine ashton, is following developments very closely and will raise these issues with the chinese authorities at the earliest opportunity, and that the eu will also make known its concern to the chinese authorities at the next round of the eu-china human rights dialogue, for which we have proposed dates in may. allow me to support the statement by mrs meissner that what is really needed is one voice, a unified message, which comes not only from the eu institutions but from all eu member states.
author. − mr president, there are three points that i would like to make concerning the alde amendments to this resolution. first of all, the justification for the amendments is based on the causal nature of the occupation of tibet by the people’s republic of china in the thwarting of the tibetan elections in nepal. although the resolution addressed the issue of the ban on elections for the tibetan government in exile in nepal, it cannot be ripped out of the wider context of the status of tibet. secondly, if there were no reference to the chinese occupation of tibet, which is the very cause and reason for beijing putting pressure on the nepalese government, it would be like talking about the first world war without mentioning the assassination of franz ferdinand. finally, the call for meaningful autonomy for tibet is the only constructive proposal that the european parliament can make to avoid a reoccurrence of the ban on the tibetan elections in nepal. i call on colleagues to support it.
author. − mr president, it is a matter of grave concern that the human rights situation in zimbabwe has worsened during the last months in particular, and this concern relates to zanu-pf’s deliberate obstruction of the zimbabwean government of national unity. the european parliament must demand an immediate end to the persecution of the political opposition to zanu-pf, of civil activists who are being arrested and tortured and of ngos, which have been raided and whose members have been detained arbitrarily. the eu should keep its restrictive measures against individuals and entities with links to the mugabe regime in place until there is real evidence of a change for the better in zimbabwe. the zimbabwean people should also be given freedom of expression without the fear of violent persecution, arbitrary imprisonment or torture, and those who have been committing systematic political harassment should be prosecuted.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, in december last year i visited japan and one of the concerns that was raised repeatedly by the japanese officials was the slow progress in trade relations between the european union and japan. we all know that, unlike some other eu partners in the far east, we share common values of democracy, human rights and the liberal market economy with japan, making her a more natural partner for the european union. at the 19th eu-japan summit in april last year it was agreed to establish a joint high-level group in order to analyse the progress in eu-japan relations so far and draw up suggestions for streamlining our current activities. the importance of continuing to work on non-tariff issues was also stressed in the context of the joint high-level group and i hope that these agreements can be put into practice as soon as possible. i would like to speak in favour of timely and concrete steps to alleviate non-tariff barriers in order to liberalise eu-japan trade relations. both markets would benefit greatly from upgrading trade relations between the eu and japan, especially keeping in mind innovation and technologies. i would also welcome further cooperation on matters relating to cyber security. i hope that we can improve trade relations with japan and i look forward to further progress in these relations.
, in writing. there is a lack of coherence between the different forestry policies of the european union and the member states. therefore, much more substantive coordination is needed in the areas of forestry, agriculture, renewable energy, biodiversity and other environmental policies. the industrial and research policy and the europe 2020 strategy must also be taken into account. forestry is a natural part of the integrated rural and regional policy and must be taken into account in the discussions on the future of the cap after 2013.
, in writing. – i am encouraged by the approach of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy: realising that what counts, in addition to statements, are actions. i would like to remind you, baroness ashton, of joseph daul’s advice: do not be afraid, and you will have the support of this parliament. it is our joint responsibility to make authoritarian rulers believe that we take our basic values seriously. this means, first of all, conditionality: readiness not only to suggest and implore, but also to cause pain, i.e. to apply real sanctions to regimes which do not respect even the lives of their subjects. i agree that sanctions against syria have to include hundreds of people, not just a dozen. i thank you for your condemnation of the massacre in camp ashraf on 8 april 2011. i strongly suggest that, in this case, you follow the clear message of the european parliament from april 2009: we need a clear and convincing message that the eu really cares about the lives of 34 unarmed members of the iranian opposition and will no longer tolerate the brutal crushing of their liberties and dignity. i ask the commission to take the lead in the proposed resettlement issue.
, in writing. – first of all, i would like express my sincerest gratitude to baroness ashton for the eu’s full support to estonia in trying to resolve the hostage crisis in lebanon. the kidnapped estonians are, however, still at the mercy of their abductors. therefore we would be grateful for your further involvement and assistance in the resolution of the situation. coming to the future of the common foreign and security policy, i would like to call for more coherence and consistency when dealing with non-democratic regimes. we have applied sanctions on belarus, but we have not done so with regard to the magnitski case in russia, although this had been pointed out by the european parliament in the annual report on human rights in the world 2009 and in the european union's policy on the matter. we are still committed to the one-china policy, while beijing has recently become more suppressive and violent both in tibet and the uyghur region. instead of flirting with beijing, we also ought to pursue a free trade agreement with taiwan, which is a prosperous democracy. the one-china policy is outdated and morally undermining to the image of the european union. let us align our policies with our values.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the gualtieri report. however, i underline once again the need for enhanced cooperation between the eu and nato. my original amendment to paragraph 87 aimed to confirm, rather than merely recognise, nato’s role as the bedrock for collective defence – a role which is not just ‘still continuing’ but should be seen as the only option for the foreseeable future. in addition, nato’s role cannot be deemed to concern only its member states, as the gualtieri report states: it creates security for the eu’s non-nato members too. nato has been, and is going to be, the foundation of collective defence, so that has to be stated in strong, affirmative language. this morning, the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, baroness ashton, declared that the eu and nato are, for the first time, sharing information and data on libya. this is an encouraging example for further similar cooperation. it sends a clear signal that, if there is a will, the way to meaningful cooperation will be always open.
mr president, i want to thank everybody for supporting this initiative. i will be very brief. it has been a pleasure to work under the surveillance of ms jordan cizelj and in cooperation with ms gomes, ms morkūnaitė-mikulėnienė and ms lepage. this is a genuine citizen’s initiative, and will show how citizens can guide europe to a better future. however, knowing the controversy around written declarations, and the differing opinions about their usefulness, i would like to apologise to those members who felt offended by our campaign, and to repeat the promise i made to the chair of my subcommittee, mr danjean: i promise not to start a written declaration again during this parliamentary term. i hope you will help me to keep my promise, and i hope we will all meet again on the action day in 2012.
author. − mr president, we are discussing the situation in belarus for the fourth time this year, yet the political prisoners who were apprehended in december have still not been released. we are grateful to the council for reintroducing visa sanctions and an asset freeze on the high belarusian officials, which demonstrated that our deep concern for the people of belarus is not only empty rhetoric. perhaps we have not been clear enough. therefore, we are calling on the european union to extend restrictive measures against lukashenko’s regime. well-advised, targeted, economic sanctions against state-owned enterprises will have an effect that the belarusian authorities cannot disregard. the criminal regime of lukashenko relies greatly on the income from exports of chemicals, heavy industry and textiles owned by state enterprises. by cutting off the european market we can demonstrate our determined intention to overthrow lukashenko’s regime. it is within our capacity to make a difference. regime transition is desperately needed for the people of belarus. we should not deny them their long-awaited liberty.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, thank you for your kind words of solidarity. seventy years ago, about 50 000 lithuanian, latvian and estonian nationals were brutally deported from their homes in the soviet-occupied baltic states. if we compare that figure of 50 000 out of the then 5.5 million population of the three baltic states to that of the uk or france, the 50 000 baltic deportees would have meant proportionately 432 000 citizens deported from the uk or 363 000 persons deported from france. happily, this did not happen in these countries. already in may 1941, as the president has said, the soviet leadership had decided to cleanse lithuania, latvia and estonia of anti-soviet elements in political and economic elites. the deportees were transported in cattle wagons to soviet siberia and the far north to face hunger, cold and forced labour. men were separated from their families and brought to prison camps where many of them died or were executed. in many places almost 50% of the deportees died. the 1941 deportations delivered a devastating blow to democratic civil society. this indiscriminate violence caused deep psychological traumas for the victims, resulting in long-lasting fears, suppressed emotions, self-censorship and passiveness. this led to the feeling that justice could never prevail. to quote sakharov prize winner sergei kovalev, there is no doubt that in modern terminology these acts were crimes against humanity. therefore the remembrance, 70 years later, of the baltic deportations is an opportunity for a deepened understanding that your past is our past and vice versa. the full knowledge of the 1941 crimes against humanity should become an integral part of our common european history. dear colleagues, i would like to thank you all for your attention and solidarity, which the nations of the baltic countries have been looking forward to for so many years. (applause)
madam president, 2 june 2011 marked the start of the historic tallinn-monte carlo electric car marathon, and today the cars will be reaching copenhagen. gesine meissner and i, as liberal members of the european parliament, are sponsoring an electric car in the race in order to promote sustainable transportation. with increasing consumption rates, the depletion of fossil fuels is becoming inevitable and we should therefore increase investment in further research and in the development of sustainable transportation. furthermore, increasing mobility is taking its toll in terms of people’s carbon footprint, and that could accelerate global climate change. the european union and its member states have the opportunity of becoming pioneers in green transportation by introducing incentives to the users of sustainable means of transport, and encouraging the transition to a carbon-free union.
in writing. i consider important the activities and initiatives relating to the external dimension of the european union's social policy, which aim to promote social norms in third countries in order to prevent the so-called modern slavery, where people are seen as mere 'production machines' rather than as full-fledged individuals. in the face of increasing global economic competition, the conditions of workers are worsening, as wages are cut and working hours are extended primarily for profit. to reverse the current trend, it is necessary to move beyond words to action and to implement the decent work agenda and relevant conventions of the international labour organisation (ilo), including, where necessary, more extreme measures (various economic sanctions and restrictions) against states and companies that persist in their disregard. of course, the sanctions should not be applied lightly and should not be based on the wish to eliminate economic competition. the failure of third countries to comply with labour standards is also encouraged by the excessive tariffs imposed by the developed countries and the european union's common market, which makes it impossible to comply with the ilo conditions if one wants to be competitive. the european union should not be a mere figurehead here, but should offer its own solutions and compromises to improve the situation. i welcome the increase in corporate social responsibility and the respect for our employees. however, it is not normal for the state and local authorities to shift their responsibilities onto the shoulders of the companies. this policy was more typical of the former soviet union and the current cis countries, where the authorities essentially direct the money of the company themselves.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to note that the eurovignette directive has reached the end of its second reading. this report introduces the 'polluter pays' principle, which means that the change in the rules on road transport taxation allows the real costs of air and noise pollution from lorries to be added to the taxes and fees levied on heavy goods vehicles for using motorways. the directive also provides that the funds thus collected are to be used to finance efficient and environmentally friendly transport systems. 15% of the fees collected must also be invested in the trans-european transport networks, not only in road transport but also in rail and maritime transport. although the directive will apply to all lorries over 3.5 tonnes, i think that this provision goes too far, as such lorries operate mainly regionally and should not be regulated at european level. however, a member state has the right to grant an exemption for trucks of less than 12 tonnes, which is something that estonia will hopefully do as well. as for estonia, i think this directive will put an end to the situation where our lorries pay in other countries but the lorries of other countries do not pay to drive on our roads. i hope the government will put an end to this inequitable treatment and establish a level playing field for all. the directive also provides for incentives to renew the fleet, i.e. the newer and less polluting the truck, the less tax to pay. this requires heavy investment by hauliers, which in fact pays off relatively quickly, both in terms of lower road tolls and lower fuel costs. thank you!
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. the report on transport applications of global navigation satellite systems supports and underlines the role and importance of the commission's action plan for 2010-13 in this area and its impact on transport. the nine measures in the action plan are directly and substantially linked to transport. the use and development of global navigation satellite systems is envisaged for all modes of transport. of course, it plays a very important role in road and air transport. the measures include the facilitation of the creation of the single european sky and the development of intelligent transport systems applications. in addition, the use of satellites provides the opportunity to develop and use a wide range of different applications. i sincerely hope that the development and implementation of the systems, applications and solutions outlined in this report will proceed as planned and that in the coming years, different solutions will be implemented that will make life easier for our businesses and citizens and increase road safety, both at sea, in the air and on the road. thank you!
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. the treaty of lisbon gave parliament greater powers, one of which is that parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of international agreements. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2010 and entered into force on 1 january 2010. i believe that this report will help and facilitate the work of the committee on transport and tourism considerably, as it sets out the general principles on how air transport contracts should be assessed both in terms of content and measures. in particular, this report helps to clarify and simplify the different types of aviation contracts and indicates the criteria to be considered and the aspects to be monitored. in addition, this report will help to address the process of how these airline contracts are processed and what steps are necessary between the different institutions. i think this report is necessary and that is why i supported its adoption. thank you!
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. the taxation of heavy goods vehicles, which was discussed today just before the vote, is another example of how an idea that is initially very good ends up being relatively weak and loses much of its impact. i think that the tax revenue should have been used to a greater extent to develop transport infrastructure, but unfortunately, as often happens, the council has no good intentions. many countries see it as an opportunity to generate additional tax revenue that can be used for many other purposes. it is extremely positive that the adoption of this directive will put an end to the situation in estonia where we are not taxed by trucks from other countries but our trucks are taxed in other countries. although this report has been weakened in many respects during the procedure and parliament has had to give in on a number of points, it is still a major step forward and i think it is necessary to support it. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. – to achieve the 2020 goals, a european approach is needed. at the same time one has to realise that more europe cannot be achieved with less money. freezing the resources by member states will not be a sustainable option. once member states have accepted long-term strategic all-european political commitments, it is not possible to deny them financing. this will only undermine the eu’s credibility in the eyes of millions of citizens. in practical terms, much better coordination of the programmes is required, concentrating on their complementarities. financing the new priorities – r&d, innovation, and energy and transportation networks – will be unrealistic while retaining the present level of resources. the real internal eu challenge is to make the older eu15 and younger eu12 meet at the end of the next financial framework. continuing with old programmes and designing new programmes has to be given in-depth scrutiny. commitment to the eu’s principles of equality and solidarity should end the existence of different standards and also prejudices in decision-making. the eu can succeed, when all its members are treated by the same standards. a true financial perspective has to look even further forward than seven years. however, i support flexible mechanisms for necessary adaptations.
thank you for giving me your word. i was involved in the preparation of the report in the commission, and indeed unemployment in europe remains high, but youth unemployment is on average twice as high. there are member states where it is even higher - as in my own country - where it is even more than three times higher. i support the initiatives in the report on practical steps to improve the situation. it is not worthwhile for us to train a large number of people with general higher education who will then not find a place in the labour market. the emphasis should be on vocational education and training. however, the council's action on budget cuts in the education sector is totally unacceptable. their actions are also contrary to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy already adopted. so, some words, some deeds. i voted to accept the report. - thank you. - thank you.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i am grateful for this opportunity to discuss with you the next european union-russia summit which will start tomorrow in nizhniy novgorod. the european union will be represented by the presidents of the european council and the commission. high representative and vice-president ashton will attend, as will commissioner de gucht. the summit has been carefully prepared by the external action service working in close cooperation with the commission and the two presidents. preparations built on the debates held in the european council and the council, on russia as a strategic partner in late 2010 and in january 2011, on the results of the previous eu-russia summit, and the visit by the russian government to the commission in february. overall our relations have improved over the last two years. we have concluded bilateral negotiations on russian wto accession, agreed on the approach towards a possible future visa-waiver regime, and agreed the partnership for modernisation, which is now in its implementation phase. work is also ongoing in the regular framework of the four common spaces and all its technical dialogues. our interaction is quite intense. let me remind you that russia is the only external partner with whom the european union holds two annual summits. the visit by prime minister putin and an unprecedentedly large russian government delegation to the commission on 24 february was a clear sign of russian determination to seek closer relations and cooperation. nevertheless, many significant bilateral issues remain unresolved. of particular concern is the situation regarding democratic development and human rights in russia. in the context of upcoming duma and presidential elections, the standards of the electoral process will receive particular attention. now i would like to turn your attention to our main objectives for the summit, which are as follows: first: the european union will strive to encourage russia to resolve the last remaining outstanding multilateral issues to facilitate wto accession before the end of 2011, building on the eu-russia bilateral agreement reached in 2004 and last december. russia can still achieve wto accession before the end of 2011 if it can take the necessary decisions to resolve the handful of outstanding issues at multilateral level. the summit cannot replace negotiations in geneva, but it can urge russia to take constructive action. second: the european union will impress upon russia that more progress needs to be made on agreeing substantial trade and investment provisions, including on energy, in the new eu-russia agreement in order to provide a solid legal basis for deepened economic cooperation in the years to come. we do not rule out bringing the issue of russia’s unjustified ban on european union vegetable imports to summit level, although we hope that scientific evidence will allow a quick solution at an expert level. third: we shall maintain top-level support for the partnership for modernisation as an important vehicle for russian commitments to reforms. fourth: we will promote human rights and the rule of law in russia, and fifth, we will encourage russia to deepen cooperation in our common neighbourhood and continue the dialogue on other topical international issues like the middle east, for example, or north africa. in fact, progress on moldova/transnistria will serve as an important test case for closer foreign policy cooperation. finally, we should also use the summit to reconfirm our political commitment to make progress on crisis management cooperation – provided our decision-making autonomy is in no way affected. energy also figures prominently in our dealings with moscow. we will emphasise the need for further reforms in the russian electricity and gas sector with a view to establishing a level playing field. we will also underline the need to cooperate on fighting climate change. to pursue our goals of highest standards on nuclear safety, we interact with russia both at the bilateral level and in multilateral fora such as the international atomic energy agency and the g8. we will repeat our invitation to russia to engage in negotiations on a comprehensive euratom-russia agreement which should promote the highest standards for nuclear safety. with regard to the fukushima accident, the european union will push for equivalence of approaches regarding stress tests for both existing and planned nuclear power plants. last, but certainly not least, we have engaged in a clear process on visa-free travel. the european union has prepared and agreed in march its proposal for the list of common steps towards the possible establishment of a visa-free travel regime, and we have indeed started negotiations in april. since then, a permanent partnership council on justice and home affairs has been held and clear progress has been made. but negotiations on our common steps at expert level are to date not finished. we must be clear at the summit that there are no political short-cuts. as far as russia is concerned, its main objectives for the summit can be expected to focus on visas, the wto, energy – including nuclear safety – and security cooperation. russia might come back to the idea of a new political and security committee at ministerial level. we believe that necessary cooperation structures are in place; what we need is political will to make progress on substance. thank you for your attention and i look forward to your comments.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we hope that further progress will be made at the summit in nizhniy-novgorod with regard to a new and comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement. both the eu and russia must keep in mind that a true partnership can only be a straightforward relationship. on behalf of the alde group i would like to invite the representatives of the eu to address all the concerns raised by the european parliament with their russian counterparts. the european union will face major difficulties in relations with russia unless the two partners rely on the same values and principles. if the kremlin moves even further away from democracy and the rule of law, russia will lose all legitimacy as a partner to the eu. for example, the kremlin has prevented a number of political parties from registering for the state duma elections on procedural grounds, and the list is likely to be extended to include the people’s freedom party led by mikhail kasyanov, vladimir milov, boris nemtsov and vladimir ryzhkov. the surging suppression of the opposition must be brought up at the summit and the opposition parties must be allowed to register. ladies and gentlemen, russia is not china. russia is a member of the council of europe and the osce; therefore she must uphold her international commitments and obligations. furthermore, russia must abide by her own constitution. russia has to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its neighbours. we insist that she stops pressuring ukraine – as my colleague said just now – for example as prime minister putin did yesterday when he met the prime minister of ukraine, pressing them to join the customs union with russia, belarus and kazakhstan. we cannot accept this. we expect russia to withdraw its troops immediately from georgia to the pre-conflict positions. lastly, the alde group is very disappointed that, on the eve of the summit, russia has imposed a disproportional import ban on vegetables from the eu.
madam president, russia has proclaimed a modernisation programme and some observers are speaking about a new perestroika. so far, unfortunately, there is no real progress. analysts conclude that the priority of the current russian élites is to keep the present system in place, trying not to allow external relations to have any impact on the domestic situation. it is therefore up to the eu to make one issue very clear. the success of the partnership for modernisation will be dependent on the russian government’s willingness and capacity to provide for a truly independent judiciary and to implement the basic principles of the rule of law, transparency and reciprocity. if the eu will not address this crucial issue in a principled manner, hardly any progress can be expected. today’s international herald tribune writes: ‘russia can’t have a modern economy until it has a genuine rule of law’. the summit venue will be nizhniy novgorod, in soviet times gorky, where the key figure of soviet conscience andrei sakharov was banished for many years. i call upon the commission and our negotiators to follow the spirit of andrei sakharov and to remember the message of sakharov prize winner sergei kovalev in this hemicycle two years ago. finally, the eu should stimulate and help russia to come to terms with its totalitarian legacy. after 20 years, even mr medvedev had to admit that one cannot ignore the terrible and criminal heritage of russian power. i recall the words of our colleague mr swoboda who yesterday asked for a full clearing up of russian history, especially the atrocities of the stalin era. we can help russia come to terms with its past.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am delighted to address the house on eu-mongolia relations. it is very timely to discuss mongolia. as the nineteenth largest country in the world, mongolia occupies the strategic crossroads between the fast-growing markets of both china and russia. it is a youthful and vibrant nation with a long, proud tradition and history. mongolia is making good progress on its chosen path to democracy. i would like to congratulate mongolia on its peaceful elections, its vibrant civil society and free media. these are indeed milestones on mongolia’s journey towards political pluralism. the european union particularly welcomes the moratorium on the death penalty announced by the president of mongolia, which faced domestic opposition from certain quarters. as requested by mongolia, the european union is ready to share its experience, especially as regards taking up and bringing forward european principles, norms and standards. i am therefore pleased to confirm the inclusion of mongolia as a pilot country as regards european union support for democracy. this means we will provide it with more financial and technical assistance. i would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate mongolia on this year’s 100th anniversary of the democratic movement in mongolia and on its presidency of the community of democracies. let me now turn to the prospects for mongolian economic development. mongolia is at an economic crossroads as it shifts gear from a largely pastoral and nomadic society to a mineral-based economy. huge mineral reserves are literally a ‘golden opportunity’ for mongolia to bring more prosperity and well-being to its people. we hope that these untapped mineral resources will prove a blessing rather than a curse, as has been the case for some countries. in the realm of international relations, we appreciate the participation of mongolian troops in the united nations peace-keeping missions around the world. mongolian troops serve in sierra leone, the democratic republic of congo, sudan, western sahara and chad. i would like to underline that mongolia’s efforts to help stabilise afghanistan are much valued. as regards the governance of mongolia’s relations with the european union, i am especially pleased that the partnership and cooperation agreement, which replaces the 1993 trade and cooperation agreement, was negotiated within a year and initialled on 20 december 2010 in ulaanbaatar. this agreement opens a strategic chapter in our relations. high representative and vice-president baroness ashton welcomed the partnership and cooperation agreement as another ‘stepping stone towards enhanced political and economic involvement’ of the european union and its member states with mongolia. with the partnership and cooperation agreement, we will work together as equal partners to cooperate in a wide range of areas: from political matters such as countering terrorism and promoting human rights, to trade and investment in key areas such as raw materials. once the text has been approved by member states, we hope to welcome the prime minister of mongolia to brussels to sign the agreement with baroness ashton. given this further deepening of our political and economic cooperation, and the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the opening of a european union delegation in ulaanbaatar is an option. the external action service is currently examining the european union representations around the world. i hope that it will be possible to overcome financial and personnel obstacles in order to open a fully fledged european union delegation in ulaanbaatar. thank you very much for your attention and i look forward to hearing your contributions and comments.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, commissioner, mongolia is rich in mineral resources such as copper, coal, tungsten (wolfram), tin and gold. this makes her an extremely appealing economic partner. but, while pursuing our economic interests, we should also use the opportunity to apply conditionality in order to encourage mongolia to start with much-needed reforms. there are severe problems in mongolia, with rampant corruption, lack of good governance and insufficient international cooperation. furthermore, there are also some pressing issues with the management of her natural resources. at the moment, the mineral reserves of mongolia are rigorously exploited by many foreign companies with the complicity of the mongolian government. this has led to a situation where the people of mongolia are not benefiting from the country’s resources. they must work in very poor conditions, with some workers, for example, extracting gold with mercury. mercury fumes are causing irreversible harm to the health of such workers. but that is not all. there are many children born in mongolia with deformities and incurable diseases as a result of harmful workplace conditions. the mongolian economy is also facing challenges both because of export duties and import bans that russia and china have been imposing and owing to technical shortcomings. livestock constitutes about 80% of mongolia's agricultural output, but meat cannot be exported as there are insufficient facilities for quality control. if we are committed to pursuing a partnership and cooperation agreement, then we should help mongolia overcome the problems that the country is facing in order to develop socially, economically and ecologically sustainable relations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-russia summit, but i see no real progress from the russian side to combat corruption, to apply the rule of law and international law. declarative statements by president medvedev are neither a proof nor a guarantee of real progress. i would like to remind you that whilst russia is trying to join the wto, it disregards, according to suitability, different international obligations, especially regarding human rights. can the eu really trust a state that selectively applies international laws? i call upon the eu to monitor the pre-election, election and post-election period very closely and make sure every violation is picked up and pointed out. independent and transparent elections are the cornerstone of democratic states and if russia wants to be among those, it has to fulfil the standards. although the eu and russia are interdependent, we see mostly the eu adapting to russia’s wishes. the eu has to stand strong and demand full and vigorous implementation of the rule of law, democracy, respect for human rights and an independent judiciary. anything less means not living up to our own principles. even more, we would let down the people in russia who desire freedom, prosperity and safety.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, a military coup d’état in madagascar has been followed by continual violations of human rights and civil liberties. we have had to witness the concentration of executive, legislative and judiciary powers, together with the media, in the hands of andry rajoelina, who prides himself on the title of the president of the high transitional authority. i am pleased that the eu and its member states have not recognised his illegitimate government. we should never give credit to any authoritarian ruler by engaging in formal relations, even if we have done so in the past. therefore i welcome the sanctions that have so far been imposed on the regime, and encourage the international community to extend them in order to overthrow rajoelina’s government and bring about a true and definitive transition to democracy.
in writing. – mr president, the united states department of defence and its agencies have bluntly disregarded international law, in particular the geneva conventions, with regard to the guantánamo bay detention camp. it is unacceptable that the united states of america – considered a torchbearer of human rights and democracy – has engaged in ill-treatment and torture of the detainees of the camp. the european union must insist that the us closes the camp immediately and conducts an independent and impartial investigation of the alleged violations of human rights that have taken place in the camp. the death penalty should not be exercised by any democratic country; therefore we call on the us authorities not to implement it in the case of abd al-rahim al nashiri or any of the other cases. the european union and its member states ought to persuade the united states to set a moratorium on the death penalty. in the interests of the credibility of the european union we must at all costs avoid setting double standards on matters of principle such as this.
author. − mr president, we are not here today to judge the actual innocence or guilt of yulia tymoshenko. it has gone well beyond that point, because the ukrainian authorities have overlooked the correct legal procedures and taken measures that violate the rule of law. we protest against the elimination of political opponents in ukraine with the help of the judicial system. defendants must be granted their legal rights, as enshrined in law, and the measures taken against them must be proportionate to the nature and gravity of the crimes that they have been accused of. the purpose of this resolution is to draw the attention of the ukrainian authorities to some apparent breaches of the rule of law which have distanced ukraine from european values, and which, if they become commonplace, would curtail their country’s prospects of future european integration.
mr president, the weakness of the stability pact has been one factor in this deepening economic crisis, which has grown into a credibility crisis. nobody is blameless in this respect. we have now reached an emergency situation where solidarity and responsibility are all that count, but solidarity does not just mean all for one. in exactly the same way it means one for all. every member state has to take responsibility for the ownership of our union and start acting for the common good of europe. we do need more europe, and more europe means more discipline, including concrete measures against those who continue to violate the rules. to restore the euro zone’s credibility, the commission’s role has to be to become both stronger and more independent in exercising economic governance and conducting surveillance. the commission needs a mandate to assess the economic situation in the member states, so it can issue recommendations and warnings in time. but the crucial issue will be the political will and ability to apply fines. their application should become a rule, not an object of political bargaining. the role of the council should be duly limited, in procedures that lead to potential sanctions. the eu’s credibility can be restored by improving the quality of statistics, excluding in the future any manipulation and falsifying of fiscal data. my country, estonia, faced a deep economic crisis three years ago. however, we acted, balanced the budget and entered the euro zone. latvia acted too and is clearly back on track. all for one and one for all. we all have to act in reforming our societies. cutting expenses hurts, but remains the only way back to growth and stability.
in writing. – the economic integration of the european union and in particular the euro has reached a juncture at which one can no longer turn a blind eye to unequivocal deviations from the criteria that have been set in order to safeguard economic stability in the union. therefore, i would call for enhancing the role of the commission with regard to the economic governance of the eu. ultimately, automatic mechanisms ought to be established and executed when certain member states consistently breach the stability and growth pact. the economic crisis has exposed the irresponsible financial and economic decisions of several governments, but it is the conscientious member states that are paying the price. the crisis has taught us a painful, but all the more valuable lesson for the future. the commission ought to be mandated to intervene without prejudice whenever it receives alarming signals from any member state and the council should not back the culprits. much talked about solidarity will not be infinite and, unless we call the malefactors to order, the citizens of countries such as estonia might lose their patience.
mr president, the development and cooperation dg is responsible for managing the european neighbourhood policy instrument (enpi) cross-border cooperation programmes, and this has led to quite an absurd situation when it comes to cross-border cooperation with russia – which is neither an enpi target country nor a recipient of eu development assistance. i agree with the rapporteur that overall responsibility for the enpi should be returned to the regional development dg and that the cross-border cooperation programmes should be implemented in a framework similar to that for the interreg programmes. regardless of the external dimension, cross-border cooperation programmes should not be pursued under the regulations for development aid. their nature requires application of the eu territorial cooperation rules.
in writing. in future, eu cohesion policy must take greater account of macro-regional strategies such as the baltic sea and danube strategies. macro-regional strategies have a great potential to tap into transnational potential, improve cooperation between different levels of government and use common approaches to tackle common challenges and enhance the regions' competitiveness and innovation capacity. in preparing for the next cohesion policy period, there is a need to clarify how macro-regional strategies will be implemented in the next period and what their role and place in cohesion policy and funding will be in the next period. it is important that macro-regional strategies are also considered in the context of the european territorial cohesion objective under the lisbon treaty and the eu's territorial development agenda 2020. more precise guidance from the european commission to member states is needed, for example by defining specific lines of action or areas of macro-regional relevance (e.g. transport corridors, free movement of services, environmental issues). better coordination of existing support mechanisms will allow the eu structural funds to be used more effectively. without this entailing a higher level of funding for these areas of interregional cooperation. however, i think it is extremely important to provide additional instruments for the coordination of macro-regional strategies and to increase the synergies of cooperation. coordination continues to require improvement and the responsibility of member states in this respect should certainly be increased.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, but i think we should have been clearer and stronger in our demands when it comes to the mechanism of sanctions and penalties. the current line stays vague and does not express clearly that, in case of a breach, sanctions must follow automatically, without being subject to political bargaining. although the role of the commission is strengthened, the report should clearly support reversed qualified majority voting as planned in the first place to ensure an independent and fast procedure for applying needed measures. i welcome overall the call for greater transparency and involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments. this is especially important considering the call to align the national budgets with the european semester. all actors have to be fully involved and informed at all stages to ensure problems are prevented and solutions found at the earliest moment possible.
madam president, i was not intending to waste the plenary’s time, but i was provoked by mr clark who said that another bureaucratic monster like the stasi will be created. i would like to remind mr clark that the future home of the it agency, or whatever we call it, is tallinn, which is not the place where the stasi was invented. indeed, on the contrary another ‘s’ word, skype, was invented by estonian boys and girls some years ago. beyond that estonia was the first country to be under real cyber-attacks in the modern age and we survived. i believe schengen, with the free movement of european people, will survive with us as well.
in writing. – mr president, it has taken more than two years from the commission’s proposal to the first reading in the parliament. the establishment of the eu it agency is a long-awaited step towards ensuring streamlined operational management of large-scale european union it systems, namely sis ii, vis and eurodac. however, from a long-term perspective, the agency ought also to become a centre of competence responsible for developing additional large-scale it systems, should it be required to do so in the future and if the parliament and the council so decide. i am pleased that a compromise has been reached between estonia and france to locate the seat of the agency in tallinn, estonia. this decision is in line with the european council conclusions of 13 december 2003, which gave priority to the member states that acceded to in 2004 and 2007 in the distribution of the seats of new eu offices and agencies. the agency is expected to begin work at the beginning of 2012. i therefore hope that the parliament and the council can adopt the regulation at first reading so that the agency can become operational on schedule.
in writing. the development of europe is based on a social market economy and there is no doubt that services of general interest are an integral part of the european social model. they are organised in the member states through historical development, are the result of different cultural traditions and therefore it is not possible to create a uniform european model that is suitable for all. our approach to the issue must be flexible and respect the principle of subsidiarity. a single eu framework regulation is neither necessary nor legally justified to create legal certainty in this area. member states must ensure equal access to services, irrespective of economic status or gender, in particular by facilitating access to social rights for disadvantaged groups such as single mothers and older women. it is important that member states invest in accessible, affordable, quality and diverse childcare services and improve care services for other dependants, which would be an important step towards equality between women and men. but we should certainly not forget that we live in an integrated europe and it is not acceptable that the necessary services are available in one country and not in another.
i consider the adoption of this report and the establishment of the agency to be of the utmost importance, in particular to ensure the 24/7 functioning and security of european it systems. the management of large-scale it systems cannot be done on one's knees and put the responsibility on those who are not competent enough. of course, i am particularly pleased with the choice of the new location of the office, namely tallinn, the capital of my home country of estonia. we have good knowledge and experience in this field in our small country. i think it is a good compromise to divide the seat of the agency between two member states of the european union, namely estonia, where the agency's headquarters will be set up, and france, here in strasbourg, where we are today, where the servers would be needed. one of the roles of the new agency could certainly be to raise awareness of it systems and their security by organising training. i supported the adoption of the report, i have been waiting for this result to arrive. - thank you. - thank you.
it is important that universal services are accessible to all and more uniform across europe. the large differences in quality and price of services between member states are not normal and specific steps need to be taken to harmonise these differences. for example, there are wide differences in e-services, internet quality and also price, with one member state lacking substantially good e-services and internet being of poor quality and expensive. we need to learn from each other's experiences and progress and move towards a more uniform level of service. the single european emergency number 112 is a good example of this, despite some quality problems. i supported the adoption of this report.
it is clear that an updated regulation is certainly necessary in the current situation in order to reflect the latest developments in consumer protection and to make cross-border cooperation in the field of consumer protection even more efficient and effective. given the limited resources, i believe it is essential to harmonise consumer protection priorities, procedures and other rules, as well as it tools, in order to ensure that the system is functional and not overly fragmented. but above all, our common goal is to ensure consumer protection and fair and honest trade throughout the european union. i supported the adoption of this regulation and thank mr repo for his substantive work.
it is quite certain that the adoption of the relevant updated european legislation is absolutely necessary in order to increase the harmonisation of the european market and its functioning on the basis of common values and rules. cross-border investors should enjoy the same level of protection across europe, and harmonisation of the thresholds for investor compensation should help avoid exploiting differences between member states. i find the rapporteur's recommendation to include the risk principle of the investment guarantee schemes directive, whereby each member's contribution to a scheme is determined by the level of risk taken by the undertaking, to be an interesting idea. i supported the adoption of this report. - thank you. - thank you.
i am convinced that, despite any level of supervision, the fact is that gmos know no boundaries between farmland and state, and that a small human error is enough to upset the natural balance that already threatens our biodiversity. i voted in favour of the report because i regard as a positive step the decision to allow member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. the authorisation of gmos in the absence of a direct need to increase agricultural production and without any assurance of their safety is simply irresponsible and, i stress again, may cause irreversible damage. while the use of gmos may increase the weight of production and benefit the merchant in particular, studies have shown that their nutritional value is low and that the use of gmos makes farmers dependent on the commercial interests of some large corporation.
in writing. − the shipbuilding sector has suffered considerably as a result of the economic crisis, as evidenced by the many shipbuilding companies that have closed down and are closing down across europe, including in my home country of estonia. i certainly support the reasoned request of odense steel shipyard in denmark, but we europeans should seriously consider whether we still need such large fleets and ports to transport large quantities of goods from far away asia, or whether it would be more sensible to contribute to european production, which would increase employment and be much more environmentally friendly.
in writing. − when a european country is in distress because of natural disasters or other causes, it is extremely important and fundamental that we show solidarity with each other. we never know when our home country or region will need all of us next. i fully support the granting of this aid to slovenia, the czech republic and the future member of the european union, croatia. these allocations do not cover much of the damage, but they are certainly a great help to the affected regions and a sign of european unity.
in writing. − the aid granted to the danish wind turbine manufacturer glasfiber for the redundancies through the european globalisation adjustment fund is justified, but it is worrying that a company producing renewable energy technology is forced to close down its operations in a situation where renewable energy is one of the european union's top priorities. it is not normal for environmentally friendly technology to be imported from asia, which is already very far away in terms of logistics, and for europeans to be left unemployed. i hope that germany's decision to switch to renewable energy and the efforts of other member states to increase the share of renewable energy will also give a new impetus to the whole european wind energy sector.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this report which finally gives a green light for the establishment of the agency for the management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. i thank the rapporteur carlos coelho for his efforts in preparing this report and trust in creating this new agency. in the current situation where the eu and its member states are facing a rapidly growing number of cyber attacks, which could seriously affect european information, infrastructure and energy systems, where cyber crime is causing enormous costs, we need a european coordinating agency to develop and manage complex information systems to enhance european security. this agency shall lead the way towards a comprehensive cooperation in this field and will ensure that eu is prepared to face challenges arising in the cyber sphere. i am pleased that the new agency will be situated in tallinn. i am fully convinced that being a leading force in advancing cyber security in europe, estonia is capable of providing the best facilities and services.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question. the report of the agency, which was set up to provide operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of justice, freedom and security, deals with the creation of the new agency and its areas of activity. according to the rapporteur, the agency's objectives and tasks are limited to the technical level of operational management. the authority should not have the power to take policy decisions, for example on the establishment of new systems or on the interoperability of systems. i am very pleased, and certainly my estonian colleagues are pleased, that estonia and france have reached an agreement, which also confirmed today that the new office will be located in tallinn, estonia. however, since the technical development and operational management of sis ii and vis were already being prepared in strasbourg and the backup facilities for these it systems have already been set up in sankt johann im pongau, austria, estonia, france and austria agreed to keep them there. i believe that the creation of this agency will increase the reliability of the european union's it systems and will make the creation of new systems faster and more efficient. the creation of a new agency is therefore fully justified. i welcome today's decision and look forward to the creation of a new office. thank you!
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question. it is welcome that today's report gives member states the power to use their territory to grow gmos or to restrict and prohibit them. according to the latest eurobarometer survey on this topic, published in october 2010, 61% of europeans say that 'eating gmos causes alienation' and an equal number (61%) do not agree that the development of gmos for food should be encouraged. less than a quarter of europeans (23%) agree that 'growing food from gmos is not harmful to the environment'; over 53% disagree. in conclusion, in no country does the majority of respondents agree that growing gmos is good for the national economy. as regards the contamination of conventional or organic farming with gmos, the commission has always justified its refusal to legislate at community level by the diversity of agricultural practices, climatic conditions and geographical conditions between member states and even within member states. the same diversity exists in the host ecosystems and environments and justifies, by the same logic, the application of subsidiarity to the cultivation of gmos. the potential cultivation of gmos should also not entail additional costs for conventional or organic farmers. therefore, member states should be obliged to take measures to prevent the introduction of gmos into other products, paying particular attention to possible cross-border contamination. in addition to the primary product, it is also worth noting that there is no need to promote the cultivation of gmos in europe if we are simultaneously restricting the production of several agricultural products. i supported the adoption of this report.
in writing. − european cohesion and structural policies will certainly play a very important role in future competitiveness. the european and regional development objectives must be aligned if we are to achieve the desired success european added value. however, this added value can of course be created by competitive and strong regions, which is why it is necessary to reduce the large differences in the level of development of the regions through cohesion policy. in order to treat the different regions of europe equally in the allocation of grants, i supported the european commission's proposal to create a clear and transparent target for transition regions (between 75% and 90%). i therefore did not support amendments nos 5, 33 and 99 by the rapporteur, mr markus pieper, and supported the principles laid down in article 34 that regions should be treated equally, not through an opaque system.
on behalf of the alde group. i also thank the rapporteur, mrs ayala sender, and the deputy rapporteur for their good cooperation. this directive is necessary in particular to increase the safety of our citizens on the roads and to reduce the number of deaths caused by road traffic offences. this is a first important step in that direction. having participated in numerous trilogues and negotiations myself, i am pleased that today we have reached an agreement in principle. regarding the agreement, i regret to say that, compared with the text of parliament's first reading, the draft directive has lost much of its substance and impact. you've lost your share of the punishment, and the council has forced you to do it. however, the council must acknowledge that the increase in the number of infringements from four to eight occurred just after the council's first reading. this gave the impression that the council had a genuine desire and will to take this matter seriously. however, unfortunately, the council decided to change the legal basis, which omitted the above-mentioned implementation part and made the directive only for cross-border exchange of information. since the directive focuses only on the exchange of information, i made a number of proposals in this area, most of which were supported and led to a clearer and more rigorous approach to data protection and privacy. now, about the amendment i tabled in the house, the correlation tables. the inclusion of correlation tables in this directive was supported at the first reading of parliament and at the transport committee meeting in may this year. unfortunately, despite alde's opposition, it was removed in the final trilogy. the conference of presidents has now unanimously endorsed the correlation tables, as reflected in two decisions of the conference of presidents in the previous year and in the last meeting on 30 june. on behalf of the liberal and democratic group, i can say clearly that we support the adoption of this directive. and of course i'm also trying to get my amendment passed. but of course, the most important thing in any case is to go forward with the compromise reached and to accept it.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. aviation security is a highly relevant and topical issue and it is most welcome that we are discussing it today. according to eurostat, there were 751 million air passengers in the european union in 2009, and it is for these and many other people that it is important to ensure safety on planes and at airports. i believe that this report on aviation security and in particular security scanners is necessary to ensure the rational and justified use of new technologies. however, it is important, in the interests of the health safety of passengers and workers, that the technology used is the safest for human health and that future exposure to cumulative ionising radiation should not be allowed and should therefore be clearly excluded. many have expressed concern that the body images created by security scanners are too revealing, so i dare say that's not the case. having done it myself, i know what kind of a canvas is created and i can't find anything revealing in it. the report notes that all security scanners should use cryptographic images to protect the identity of passengers and ensure that they cannot be identified by any body part. the report shall clearly state that the data obtained from the scan may not be used for any purpose other than the detection of prohibited objects, may only be used for the duration of the scan operation, must be destroyed as soon as the person has passed the security check and must not be retained. thank you!
on behalf of the alde group. first of all, a big thank you to mrs kratzas for her fruitful work both within the political groups and within her own political family. the approaches of the political groups differ, but at the same time they all agree that the objective of equal opportunities must be for both men and women. in addition to being a prerequisite for democracy and social justice, gender equality is also a social good, bringing social, political and economic benefits to the individual and society. studies in different countries have shown that women's participation in the management of enterprises promotes performance, increases the efficiency of enterprises and leads to better economic and profit performance. the conclusions of the studies are based on facts. they are not openly questioned, but the way to implement them is difficult. the predominance of men among leaders is re-creating the perception that men are more fit and better leaders. - you did? i ask whether the recent financial crisis, which has become an economic crisis, has really taught us nothing. i ask, if lehman brothers had been lehman sisters instead, would we be struggling today with the consequences of the social crisis? we need a new approach. norway pioneered this, taking the field seriously early in the last decade. of course, there was also hostility and mistrust. today, the law that has provided for quotas for women's participation has been in force for six years and has done so successfully. the model has been adopted by many other countries. but it's not enough for today. today, it is still a closed circle in some ways. i'm going back to research. they have shown that experience with female leaders makes attitudes more supportive of women's leadership. but when there are few female managers, attitudes do not change significantly. therefore, to change attitudes, it is necessary to support the rise of women in leadership positions. what is needed is political will. we have the right to do so, and i hope that we will all support the adoption of this report tomorrow.
mr president, on behalf of estonia, let me offer poland best wishes for the success of its presidency of the council. i thank prime minister tusk for the morale boost he gave to europe this morning and i hope that it will help us to overcome the current crisis of confidence. poland, like estonia, has proved from its experience that such crises can be overcome, provided we can concentrate on added european values and on solidarity, and a bit less dramatically on short-term national interest. i want to make two points, prime minister. your presidency of the council will be considered successful for your achievement in laying foundations for the common external energy policy. such a policy of energy solidarity was initiated in this chamber four years ago by our colleague jacek saryusz-wolski. secondly, the autumn review of the baltic sea strategy will be crucial for the long-term success of this first european macroregional strategy – and we need better coordination in this regard.
i voted for the report, too. although the document will be diluted as we read it, i consider the adoption of this regulation and the necessary amendments to the existing ones to be a very important step in protecting the interests of european consumers. the european consumer needs to know what he is eating and where the raw materials actually come from. the information on the label of the products must be informative and understandable. beautiful labels made in eu or estonia, for example, can be sold and it becomes harder to deceive consumers. this is of course good news for consumers, but not for some unethical businessmen who have manipulated consumers and, as we know, worked against the adoption of this regulation.
i too voted in favour of the report because it is clear that we need harmony, we need control, we need unity in this important area. the facilitation of cross-border exchange of information to detect traffic offences is very important and necessary to reduce the number of fatal accidents. but it is also necessary to avoid giving road users a feeling of impunity in another member state. driving on roads such as brussels-strasbourg, for example, one can also see many cases of cars with registration plates from further afield speeding up knowing that they will not be penalized anyway. of course, the goal is not simply to punish and fine someone. the first priority is road safety, and the aim is to reduce the number of road deaths substantially, as i mentioned at the outset. i hope that all member states and all road users will benefit from this document.
in view of the global threat of terrorism and the sad experience of the past, it is vital to improve the level of aviation safety. and, of course, the use of security scanners. scanners are a powerful weapon in the fight against terrorism. the report is very good on this subject, but unfortunately the question of costs remains unresolved. it is regrettable that the improvement of air passenger safety and the development of aviation education are only taken up after a terrorist attack or an attempt at such an attack has occurred. we need a proper risk analysis that can anticipate the various risk factors at an early stage and also deal with the corresponding risks in a proactive manner. that means we need a strategy, too. while i support security, i am opposed to measures that would threaten a person's health or privacy or humiliate a person.
i supported the adoption of that report. although it was not a legal document, it was undoubtedly a report that could be considered a message bearer. i am particularly pleased that four fifths of those in the audience supported the adoption of this report. i must say that in my seven years in the european parliament, this is the first time that a report on this subject has received such a large amount of support, if not the first. gender equality is a fundamental right in the european union. and now i would ask, are we satisfied with what has been achieved in this area during the existence of the european union? no, it's not that. do our women have equal opportunities with men? without looking at the facts, without presenting them, it's possible to argue that there isn't. although the report only dealt with one aspect of this issue, the increase in women's participation in business management, it must be said that the report is not an interference with the free market or the creation of unfair competition. it is about eliminating one aspect of discrimination.
i supported the adoption of this report. it was a balanced and specific report. and since the crisis is far from over, although many politicians like to say so, i am convinced and i support the commission, that is to say the european parliament's special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis, which was set up as a temporary committee, should continue its work. the work of the commission so far is only to be acknowledged. recognising its work in developing recommendations for a sustainable growth model for the european union and in contributing to the establishment of the relevant mechanisms and coordinated policies. i believe that the commission should continue to focus on solving the problems of the large debt burden of european countries and the euro crisis.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. today's decision by the european parliament to approve this report is an important step towards improving road safety. the directive introduced by the report will give member states greater scope to call on road users to behave and to motivate them to comply with traffic rules. unfortunately, the proposal to amend the correlation tables was not supported, and the conference of presidents of 30 june took a further unanimous decision that they should be included in all the directives. it was clear that the group chairmen were not always clear about the views of their members and that the necessary consensus was not reached. i hope that in the future the agreements will be respected and that such situations will not occur again. the role of the council in this matter cannot be underestimated, since it is not in any way willing to make any act compatible with the treaty, nor to report on the entry into force of the various acts. the adoption of a directive is extremely necessary and important for improving road safety and reducing road deaths, and it is therefore not expedient not to adopt it because of the council's stubbornness. and that is why, despite the many shortcomings in the report, i supported the adoption of the report. thank you!
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. the debate last night confirmed that aviation security is a highly important and timely issue. i am glad that this report was adopted today and i would just like to reiterate why i think it is important: 1) according to eurostat, there were 751 million air passengers in the european union in 2009, and it is for these and many other people that safety in airplanes and airports must be ensured; (2) security scanners must protect the identity of passengers and ensure that they cannot be identified by the shape of any part of their body; (3) the data obtained from the scanning must not be used for any purpose other than the detection of prohibited objects, must be used only for the duration of the scanning operation, must be destroyed as soon as the person has passed the security check and must not be stored; (4) it is important for the health safety of passengers and workers that technology is used which is as safe as possible for human health and exposure to cumulative ionising radiation should not be allowed in the future and should therefore be clearly excluded. i believe that this report on aviation security and in particular security scanners is necessary to ensure the rational and justified use of new technologies. that is why i supported the adoption of this report. thank you!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we have received several alarming signals from the nagorno-karabakh region in the recent months, despite the ceasefire agreement between armenia and azerbaijan. i would call on yerevan and baku to refrain from any activities in the conflict zone that might provoke a violent response from the other party. the failure of the kazan summit that took place on 24 june is a clear indication that the efforts of the osce minsk group have been insufficient and further endeavours are needed. since armenia and azerbaijan are target countries of the european neighbourhood policy, the european union should play an integral part in the resolution of the conflict. madam high representative, i would encourage you to address the situation in the nagorno-karabakh region, keeping in mind the territorial integrity of azerbaijan, especially in the light of the four resolutions of the united nations security council on the liberation of the nagorno-karabakh and the surrounding regions. it is in the interest of both the conflicting countries as well as the european union to overcome this dispute in accordance with international law, to be able to concentrate on the economic and democratic development of the south caucasus region.
mr president, i would like to say to baroness ashton that, first of all, i regret that this debate has not resulted in a parliament resolution. today’s conclusion is that the current status quo in this conflict is unsustainable and urgently requires a peaceful and diplomatic solution. we should warn all the parties that any use of force in the present situation could lead to incalculable consequences for the entire region. our responsibility today is to send a very strong signal to all parties – azerbaijan, armenia and russia – to refrain from increasing tensions. russia’s responsibility is significant. it sells or gives arms to both parties and moscow seems to be interested in a lasting conflict which enables it to increase its grip over the region. i welcome the high representative’s increased attention to this programme. as she said, the eu has a role to play. but what we especially need today is a convincing commitment from the eu to peace and stability in the region. until recently concrete eu incentives for peace have been lacking, but it is crucial for our credibility in this region that we are not only committed, but also consistent in our approach to all interested parties. as a first step, troops should be withdrawn from this region.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the russian minister of justice has consistently refused to register any new political parties since february 2009; the most recent being the people’s freedom party, whose two leaders are among us today in the gallery: mr mikhail kasyanov and mr boris nemtsov. madam high representative, the future of eu-russia strategic relations must be directly linked to efforts to strengthen democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights in russia. the kremlin is breaching russia’s commitments as a member of the council of europe and a signatory of the european convention on human rights and therefore ought to be disciplined if the requirements for political pluralism continue to be disregarded. moreover, the russian authorities continue to pressure the opposition. yesterday, for example, the authorities issued a six-month exit ban for mr boris nemtsov, one of the leaders of the party parnas. i recall that the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe holds the right to withhold verification of the credentials of parliamentarians elected through elections deemed to be in breach with european standards. the european union must also insist that the kremlin withdraws all decisions and regulations concerning the non-registration of political parties in russia that do not comply with the european convention on human rights. putin has got until september to reconsider, when the elections are announced, but we can already see that the tracks have been laid.
written. – the ability and willingness to provide an environment for free elections is a cornerstone of the democratic functioning of any country. the refusal to register the parnas party for the elections must be taken very seriously. this is a clear signal that russia is not willing to allow free and fair elections. in fact, russia is mocking democracy. the case of khodorkovsky is no longer that of one individual, but has become a grotesque symbol of the entire russian judiciary system and the situation of the rule of law in russia. the eu cannot continue treating russia on a case-by-case basis. it is unacceptable for the eu to allow russia to dictate the agenda, as recently seen at the eu-russia summit that was dominated by the marginal issue of vegetable imports and exports, rather than russia’s serious violations of the rule of law and human rights. we have to be clear that, if there is no change in russia, the eu will not continue talks on anything with its so-called strategic partner. there can be no talks on the new pca unless russia takes concrete action to improve the judiciary system and to apply the rule of law and democratic principles.
vice-president of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like thank all the honourable members for their remarks. i would like to underline that the commission and the high representative take note of this discussion and of what i would consider is the existing consensus on the importance of effective parliamentary scrutiny of the cfsp/csdp. i think the approach – as was highlighted by all the speakers – of genuine cooperation between national and european parliamentarians is very important for exercising this scrutiny in relation to an important area of cooperation like cfsp/csdp. the commission and the high representative will continue to follow developments in this area very closely. we also hope and believe that, under the polish presidency, which puts a great deal of focus and accent on the importance of the cfsp, we will also be able to find a solution on how to put in place a mechanism for effective scrutiny over these two very important areas.
in writing. the common foreign and security policy has been hailed as a great achievement, but the european parliament and the member states still need to share the trees and the land in the implementation of the agreement. the most striking example of recent times is germany's decision to sell tanks to saudi arabia. the council of europe would have to consult the other member states on this matter in advance and take their views into account, would it not? but if germany's move is controversial, where were all the voices of protest at the deal between france and russia, a country that is even more viciously violating human rights? france has decided to sell russia one of its mistral-class battleships, and i'm sure she regrets her actions.
madam president, our colleague mr van orden has produced a timely and excellent report, well prepared by a panel of experts. progress has been great in the meantime, but it has been uneven. the report points to some big countries which have not yet joined the mine-ban treaty, like russia, which was removed from the list of users only last year. the existence of huge stockpiles in some countries is also problematic. for example, china and russia respectively have 124 million anti-personnel mines in storage. there is also the problem of clearance of mines, with the report pointing out that some countries are overly reliant on international assistance. it is, above all, up to the countries concerned to take responsibility for the clearance of mines. the last message from this report is assistance for the victims. it is a long-term challenge and it needs a strong sense of international solidarity. eu money must also be provided.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on behalf of the alde group i would like to make the following oral amendment to paragraph 5: ‘deplores the six-month travel ban imposed on boris nemtsov on 5 july 2011 and calls for it to be lifted immediately’.
in writing. − population ageing can be seen as a major challenge, given the sharp decline in europe's population under 50. to respond successfully to this challenge and to ensure european prosperity and greater cohesion across generations, it is necessary that people aged 50 and over can stay longer in the labour market, maintain their active role in society and remain healthy and independent for as long as possible. after all, the elderly are a resource to society, not a burden! i supported most of the amendments to the report, including some of the most important ones (no 7, 28, 43 and 52), and the adoption of the report itself, as addressing these important issues is essential for the better functioning of europe as a whole, and for the viability, dignity and solidarity of society across generations.
author. − madam president, it is distressing that there has been an increased incidence of attacks against religious minorities in indonesia. the most populous muslim country in the world is a democracy committed to pluralism, cultural harmony, religious freedom and social justice, and the indonesian authorities have repeatedly given reassurances in this connection. however, articles 156 and 156(a) of the indonesian criminal code prohibiting blasphemy, heresy and religious defamation have been tools in the hands of extremists inciting religious violence and hatred. those articles have been grossly misused and the commitments to the international covenant on civil and political rights have not been upheld in indonesia. i call on the indonesian authorities to repeal this legislation in order to avoid further deterioration of the situation and to bring the perpetrators of religious violence and hatred to justice.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, professor davinder pal singh bhullar was extradited from germany, in violation of the principle of non-refoulement, as he has been sentenced to death in india. despite the fact that there have no executions in india since 2004, the member states of the european union must avoid at all costs returning refugees to places where their lives or freedoms could be threatened or they may be subjected to persecution. i call on the indian authorities not to carry out any death penalties and to work on upholding the moratorium. india is in a good position to set an example to that part of the world and abolish the death penalty. the death penalty is the ultimate denial of human rights and should not be used by any democratic coutnry. this cruel, inhumane and degrading punishment cannot be used in the name of justice.
in writing. this report provides a good analysis of the current eu counter-terrorism policy and its shortcomings. i agree that the fight against terrorism needs a common approach, even though the situation in this area may seem very different in the member states. it is enough that one eu member state has underestimated the threat of terrorism, and the consequences can be catastrophic. of course, the fight against terrorism does not mean that we only deal with the consequences. more than ever, we need to invest in policies to combat racism and discrimination. there is no doubt that society must be vigilant to ensure that the fundamental rights of our civil society members are not violated in the name of the fight against terrorism. i also find it dangerous the behaviour of many of the powers of the great powers, who label people who are too easy going to be 'comfortable' as terrorists, because they dare to stand up for the human rights of small nations and are not in agreement with all the decisions of the central power. of course, the concept of terrorism and terrorist should be defined specifically at european level, so that any human rights activist who is in political conflict with the authorities is not unjustly labelled a terrorist or accused of terrorism, as was unfortunately the case in the former soviet union.
in writing. − i supported this report with the corresponding amendments, as the low funding rates have unfortunately been a major obstacle to participation in the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking's activities in the past. i see this as a positive change that should encourage all parties to make a greater contribution to new environmentally friendly technologies, contributing to the achievement of european environmental objectives.
in writing. − i supported this report, which confirms the fact that the proportion of older people in european society is very high compared to the rest of the world and is constantly increasing. the proportion of older women is particularly high, many of whom have to cope essentially alone because of the shorter life expectancy of men. however, the current situation is regrettable, with older women experiencing at least double discrimination in the labour market, both on the basis of gender and age, which unfortunately makes the reality that many european women live in poverty. europe must take immediate and concrete action if we are to ensure a sustainable and developing society. older women are a resource, not a burden, and we need to involve them more than ever in the labour market, especially in the social sphere. their vital role as caretakers of the family must also be valued. europe must complement pension legislation with the possibility of a disability pension to reduce the risk of women falling into poverty.
in writing. − i supported this report, which aims to bring legislation into line with the legal reality. i would like to point out that the common agricultural policy must also mean genuine equality of treatment between the different member states. it is not normal that there is still a distinction between farmers in the so-called old and new member states. the situation will change as regards the payment of direct agricultural aid, but the most fair thing for producers and consumers is for the market to fix things itself, without the european union and the member states paying large subsidies that distort the market.
in writing. − it is regrettable that the use of export credits supported by member states has not been transparent and is often contrary to the achievement of common european objectives. the implementation of the necessary common guidelines is essential to reduce the possibility of bribery and corruption. i voted in favour of this report and i hope that the necessary guidelines and their real implementation will improve the current opaque system.
in writing. − as environmental impacts can be transboundary, a common eu strategy to respond to pollution from offshore oil and gas production is essential. of course, in order to avoid having to react only to accidents, a risk analysis that takes account of all risk factors and is of high quality and regular is of the utmost importance. the scope of the eia directive should certainly be extended to cover all phases of offshore projects and the necessary specific conditions.
in writing. − i supported this report because the promotion of women entrepreneurship through social and political support is very important for gender equality and for european economic development. the availability of the necessary support services, the support of the member states and their local authorities and academic institutions, for example through business incubators, is one of the main prerequisites for positive development. an entrepreneurial environment that supports women entrepreneurs also ensures positive outcomes. for example, in my home country of estonia, the development of the e-society has helped to make women more entrepreneurial, even when they are on maternity leave at home. today, e-services, even so-called shopping, are extremely popular, which makes the development of entrepreneurship in the online environment very promising. i would urge women to make more use of the opportunities that the internet offers us, which reduces long distances and provides a better balance between work and family life.
member of the commission. − we will study the connection between the spread of atypical forms of work and health and safety statistics. in fact, in recent years, there have been improvements on various fronts thanks to the commission’s policy on health and safety. it is also true that, because of the crisis – also in reference to mr cercas’s point – a huge number of atypical forms, especially fixed jobs, were simply abolished or disappeared. it is probably true that because there is less integration into a particular job and a particular culture, there is probably less training and introduction into safety and health, and employees develop the understanding of their own particular working environment more slowly and on a lower level. so we will have to study this, especially in this period, because next year we are planning to develop a new long-term safety and health strategy, which has to be evidence-based. i look forward to studying the evidence on the ground in various member states and also to continue with this, the dialogue with the european parliament.
member of the commission. − ms steinruck, first of all let me thank you for your earlier intervention, in the summer, on this topic, as a result of which i raised this issue at my recent meeting with minister bertrand in france and received information that the french authorities were also looking at this case very seriously. this is exactly the type of situation which justifies the commission’s efforts to deliver a new enforcement directive on the posting of workers. i believe it is necessary, because in previous years there have been a huge number of cases – some of them very well-known following court rulings, but there are many that are less well-known – where workers, but also entrepreneurs, found themselves in very difficult situations because of the lack of clarity, and the lack of clear interpretation and implementation of the posting of workers directive. we are delivering an enforcement directive later this year. it is a strategic initiative in the commission’s work programme for this year, and this will also be accompanied by a so-called ‘monti ii’ regulation. i think this will form a good and balanced package. i have been discussing this also with the polish presidency which has a strong interest in this, also because in some cases, like the one you referred to, there are polish workers involved, though it is true that germany is also a country which receives and sends a huge number of posted workers, so i also count on german stakeholders to participate in this debate.
member of the commission. − there are three questions in one, the first being about the working time directive. as you know, we had two consultations between the social partners. the second one ended in march; it was actually extended after a request from the social partners. we also had further reasons to wait for a while for confirmation by the social partners at european level on whether they wanted to negotiate on a new directive or not. i have been in close dialogue with both sides and i am still waiting for a final answer which i hope will arrive soon. if it is positive on both sides it will be the prerogative of the social partners, businesseurope and the etuc, to negotiate. they would have nine months for that and i believe this would be a very good way because they are the key stakeholders. it is in their interests, as it is in the interests of many firms and workers in europe, to obtain a functioning working time directive as a result. further than that i would not like to comment on any aspect of the working time directive because at this phase it is for the social partners to decide what they would like to do. i am glad you appreciate my visit to bridgnorth. indeed it was a great experience to study how various directives, including safety and health, work in british industry, in the remaining british industry. we do pay attention to the discussions on employment legislation in britain in this very lively conference period. concerning the enforcement directive, the intention was clearly not to open up the original posting of workers directive because i believe personally – and i think i enjoy the support of the commission – that the original intention of this, to facilitate cross-border services and to avoid social dumping, is still valid. we have to do both and i believe this enforcement directive, for example, will facilitate better cooperation between authorities in various member states and also clarify the roles of who is supposed to do what in certain conditions. thus we would have better functioning with much less in the way of misunderstandings and conflicts.
member of the commission. − i believe a functioning working time directive will only emerge if it pays sufficient attention to the diversity of europe and also to particular sectoral specificities, but this is just stating the obvious. the health sector is clearly one of those sectors, together with the fire services and the police, for example, where there is a need for continuous service, and sometimes that raises difficulties. but i am sure the social partners know this very well, and when they come to a conclusion – as is their right – they will take these aspects into account.
i am actually addressing commissioner reding, as requested. we are discussing new ways of working, but my question relates to the bad old ways of working, and surprisingly inside the commission itself. i am referring to the process for the recent appointment to the post of head of the commission representation in tallinn in estonia. i must admit that i have a strong suspicion that the process was disturbed by hidden lobbying on the part of the estonian government and also by the commissioner for transport. moreover, i have reasons to describe the final decision as influenced far more by male chauvinism than the requirements of gender balance. the only way to erase my doubts would be to publish these documents, which unfortunately dg communication has, under various pretexts, refused to do for the time being. i ask for your assistance in getting the documents released.
in writing. – this is not so much an economic crisis as a credibility crisis. the eurozone is at serious risk of losing its credibility, first due to an irresponsible style of living that includes consuming more than we earn, and secondly to the fact that the eu has not been able to react decisively enough and in a more coordinated way to the crisis. the key problem now is to act to repair the hole in the bottom of the european boat. new loans may be necessary but, if the hole is not repaired by cutting expenses and conducting serious structural reforms, the credibility crisis cannot be overcome. latvia was in the deepest crisis three years ago but restructuring and streamlining the economy and cutting its expenditure by 20% has restored latvia’s credibility. if needed, the country has no problem in taking out loans on favourable conditions. the most practical way to restore the eu’s credibility is for the commission to come forward with concrete far-reaching new initiatives to deepen the internal market. the internal market is the very foundation of the eu. however, there are still hundreds of obstacles to its completion; the services sector especially comes to mind.
in writing. – when discussing the economic crisis and the stability of the euro, we seem to concentrate on the present problems, failing to draw conclusions for a long-term economic perspective. the crisis has revealed blatantly that the economic system in europe as we know it today can no longer be sustained. in fact, most of the eu countries seriously need to review their economic and social policies in order to avoid falling into financial difficulties. keeping that in mind, we can support greece only on the condition that greece makes further cuts in its expenditure and reforms its economy, starting with an extensive privatisation programme. if greece fails to comply then the rescue package will only be able to alleviate the symptoms, but not treat the actual cause of their problems. the success of the recovery from the economic crisis at large depends first and foremost on each and every member state and their strict and persistent adherence to the common rules as well as their dynamism in adapting to a different global economic environment. the eu economic governance package will surely be an important step forward, but earnest will and effort by the member states must come first.
in writing. − i supported the report by barbara matera on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support entrepreneurship in both austria and the netherlands. i did not agree with the council's position with several member state governments who are working against the extension of the fund until 2013, especially in view of the economic crisis.
in writing. − i consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be a very important support for member states in overcoming the difficulties caused by the global economic crisis. unfortunately, many member states, including my home country, estonia, have not taken advantage of the opportunities offered by the fund, even though they desperately need it. i believe that the commission's technical assistance would help member states to promote the use of the fund.
in writing. − transparency and integrity are the core principles to be fully implemented in the european energy market. energy deals and projects should be closely monitored and details made available to national and european energy authorities. this should apply for eu internal deals, and especially for deals with third countries. i very much welcome the recent statement by commissioner oettinger with the aim of increasing the role of the european commission in assessing energy deals, including ongoing projects. this would both serve the aim of speaking with one voice, and also ensure that energy deals which mainly have an impact on the whole of europe are fully in line with eu principles and laws. europe is highly dependent on external energy resources, and the only way to guarantee that eu law and eu security-of-supply aims are respected and followed is to ensure greater coherence, transparency and data-sharing on all levels.
in writing. − i supported this report because the transparency of the energy market, which would prevent unfair practices on wholesale energy markets, is in the interest of the development of the european economy and of all consumers. of course, the unreasonably high price of energy is having a negative impact on the european economy and on consumers, whose incomes have fallen significantly since the economic crisis. the existence of an eu-wide sector-specific regulatory framework in the energy sector is crucial to prevent market abuse and manipulation.
in writing. − this report shows that of the approximately 2900 complaints and infringements, more than half were member states behind the deadline for transposing directives, and that the responsibility for this is primarily with the national government authorities. monitoring shows that member states are not doing enough to transpose the necessary directives and that our common objectives are often only on paper and not working in practice. of course, transposition takes time, but the transposition of important directives cannot go on indefinitely and the european union must act decisively to achieve our common objectives.
in writing. − i supported this report and the principles it sets out to simplify legislation and reduce the bureaucracy that hinders business development and european competitiveness. it is very important to pay more attention to this problem and to deal with it consistently. despite the fact that today much of the work is done by machines and there is not enough work for people, so-called social jobs in public administration should be avoided. the allocation shall be simple and specific.
in writing. − it is of the utmost importance that citizens of the european union have the right and the opportunity to address their concerns to the european parliament, and, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the right to petition has become a cornerstone of european citizenship. the report shows that for the second year in a row, petitioners were most concerned with the environment, which means that this is the area that raises the most concerns and questions for people in europe, and this is a clear signal to members of parliament. unfortunately, the number of inadmissible petitions still exceeds half, as their authors confuse the competences of the member states and the european union, and more attention should be paid to informing citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, although muammar gaddafi's regime has finally been overthrown in libya, the country lies in a devastating state after the civil war and is facing several problems as we speak. the national transitional council (ntc) has taken on the responsibility of rebuilding a liberal and free libya, where democratic ideas must be respected by everybody. it is a difficult mission, and i believe that we also have an extremely important role to play to ensure the endeavour is successful. we should support the implementation of democracy by every means, and oppose every action that obstructs it. we must support the creation of a liberal economy as well as a free society. the economic recovery is pivotal in securing the country’s irreversible transition to democracy. therefore, alde welcomes releasing frozen libyan assets and lifting the eu sanctions. thus, the future of trade relations between the eu and libya can be based upon fair and liberal principles. the strategic economic sectors must be put to the service of the libyan people, and oil and gas production have to be resumed in order to finance libyan nation-building efforts. the most pressing task for the new libyan authorities is ending the violence and establishing the elementary basis for the rule of law. the stability and security of the country require the setting up of functioning state structures. from the experience of my own country, estonia, i can say that building democratic institutions can take some time. on the one hand we need patience, but in parallel we need to have a clear commitment from the ntc to rebuild a new libya based on the values of democracy, rule of law and respect for human rights.
madam president, systematic use of violence by the syrian regime has become an international issue and requires international investigation. let me express my admiration for the people who have continued their protests for almost half a year, risking their lives; risking being killed or injured. syrian people have been able to unite almost the whole world around them, except russia and some other states, in support of their quest for freedom; even the iranian president last week called for an end to the violent crackdown. the syrian regime has lost not only the trust of its people but also its international legitimacy. i think this is the clearest and strongest message today. two months ago it was not so clear. i am very happy to hear minister dowgielewicz talking about further sanctions against syria. i agree with him, but i would also like to remind him that we need to stop eu firms investing in syria and conducting business with its regime at this stage. the eu should also use its whole weight to have all members of the security council on board to pass resolutions and sanctions. finally, the eu should be prepared, whenever possible, to contact and help democratic opposition movements and groups to organise themselves and develop friendly cooperation. this needs organisation and preparedness from the side of the eu and also preparedness to provide the necessary finance.
madam president, i supported the resolution on libya, but i think it is important to stress two points. first, our message to their national transitional council that libya will be a moderate muslim country with a constitution which is going to protect minorities, including christian minorities. secondly, that the national transitional council should launch a reconciliation process without delay, and that our high representative and the european commission should be ready to provide aid with experts and trainers on mediation and dialogue.
madam president, having voted for this resolution, i think the eu’s approach should be geared to take account of the complicated and really sensitive demographic situation in syria, as well as its historic and cultural traditions. damascus is considered to be one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in the world, and is a cradle of christianity. we have to deal with one million assyrian christians, two million kurds, one and a half million iraqi refugees, turkmen, druze, armenians and others, so it is a very complicated situation which we need to approach in a well-planned manner. my other point is that, while it is good news that the eu has stopped syrian exports of oil, we should also stop our trade and investment in syria. i think this would really change the situation.
in writing. − this report gives a good overview of the current situation in the republic of moldova, giving an overview of the progress made and of what needs to be emphasised more, such as improving the business environment, fighting corruption, developing civil society, etc. it is important that the scope and effects of the association agreement, and in particular of the deep and comprehensive free trade area, cover the region of transnistria, which is an integral part of the republic of moldova. i find it regrettable that former kgb agents who had also operated in the republic of estonia in the early 1990s - fortunately without success - and whose aim was to destroy the integrity of the state, unfortunately succeeded in the same scheme in moldova. the russian federation should show more constructive spirit on this issue, rather than behaving like a true successor of the soviet union, where the methods and ideas of the kgb are honored. the association agreement and visa-free travel with the european union would mean a substantial integration of moldova into europe, which would certainly be of great benefit to the country's development and stability in the region.
in writing. − i supported the motion for a resolution which has as one of its main aims to remind member states and european decision-makers of the importance of fighting corruption, not only in relations with third countries. let's face it, we have enough corruption in the european union, and therefore even the eastern partnership countries, for example, do not understand our objections to them. corruption is a major threat to democracy, undermines it and is a breeding ground for extremists who do not believe in the fundamental values on which the european union and the rest of the democratic world are founded. we need real action in the fight against corruption, not just pretty words.
author. − mr president, the fighting between the sudanese armed forces and the sudan people’s liberation movement in blue nile state has by now led to the displacement of an estimated 200 000 people. the situation is complicated by the fact that the humanitarian agencies have been refused authorisation to work there. i have to remind you that during the second sudanese civil war from 1983 to 2005 it is estimated that up to 2.5 million people – mostly civilians – lost their lives, primarily due to starvation and drought. the repetition of such a large-scale humanitarian crisis must, and should, be prevented. i therefore fully support the call for an immediate ceasefire, resumption of negotiations on reaching a political solution to the conflict, and allowing humanitarian access to affected populations in southern kordofan and blue nile state.
member of the commission. - i would just like to recall what i said in the introduction to the written reply provided by commissioner de gucht: to recall that a consultation is planned between the european commission and the taipei authorities on 25 october and that, following this meeting, the commission is prepared to appear before the committee on international trade to report on these discussions. i think it will also be an opportunity to take stock of the opportunities that exist. i would also like to assure you that i have noted the questions you have raised. i also noted the disappointments in the response that was given. i will pass on all this information to commissioner de gucht and we will undertake to answer all your questions in writing. i would like to ask you again to apologise for the absence of commissioner de gucht, who unfortunately could not be here today for reasons of transport.
in writing. – the one-china policy that the commissioner was referring to is in my opinion long outdated. the economic cooperation framework agreement that has been concluded between the republic of china and the people’s republic of china is a clear indication of rapprochement between the two parties which should also be reflected in the relations of taiwan with the european union. in any case the eu should not miss out on enhancing trade relations with taiwan, which has indeed become a rapidly growing market, but not at the expense of the environment or the socio-economic rights of the labour force. the eu ought to demonstrate readiness to engage in negotiations on furthering trade and investment with taiwan. in order to secure the position of the eu in the international arena, its policies must be consistent and complementary. therefore, it would only be natural to pursue mutually beneficial relations as a priority with countries that share with us a free market economy as well as the principles of democracy, rule of law and respect for human rights.
madam president, today two young tibetan monks set themselves on fire in kirti monastery to protest against the repressive policies of the republic of china in the area. this year alone there have now been at least four occurrences of self-immolation in kirti. such a radical form of protest illustrates the despair of the tibetans, who are seeking freedom of religion as well as meaningful autonomy in the historic area of tibet. continuous desperate acts of protest also demonstrate that tibetans determinedly resist the ongoing violations of human rights and cultural genocide that are being carried out in tibet. therefore, the european union, and its member states too, should lend their support and address the human rights of tibetans more rigorously with the people’s republic of china, but also with nepal, as only recently concerns have been raised over the possible repatriation of tibetan refugees.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. road safety in europe is a highly important issue, with over 35 000 people killed and over 1 500 000 injured on european roads in 2009. although statistics show a reduction of more than 30% in road deaths over the last 10 years, this is still below the target of 50%. in addition to saving lives, improving road safety also entails social savings, as the social cost of road accidents was estimated at eur 130 billion in 2009. this is a considerable amount, by way of comparison, one quarter of the amount needed to finance the european stabilisation mechanism. returning to road safety, consider where fatal road accidents occur: 55% on rural roads, 36% in urban areas and 6% on motorways. this is important information to continue the work on reducing traffic fatalities and to develop legislation and various initiatives programmes. this report fully supports the objective of halving the total number of road deaths in the eu by 2020 and calls for new, clear and measurable targets to be set for the same period: • reducing the number of deaths of children under 14 years of age in road accidents by 60%, • reducing the number of deaths of pedestrians and cyclists in road accidents by 50% and • reducing the number of life-threatening injuries to people on the roads by 40%. in order to achieve the objectives listed above, we need common and harmonised rules, as the transport sector is highly international. i ask you all to support this report. thank you!
in writing. – i think that the proposed new trade policy for europe under the 2020 strategy is good. have we not noticed, however, that russia will be governed for the next 12 years by president putin, who will be ‘elected’ in 2012? and that is why i do not think that the recent decision by the french president to sell a mistral-class warship to russia was good; i believe that it is not wise to sell such a warship to russia, which attacked georgia under the premiership of mr putin. ceterum censeo, this deal can still be recalled!
mr president, having supported this report, i would like to draw attention to the need to create top-level scientific centres in the less developed and disadvantaged regions of europe on the basis of competition. it is competition that provides the best incentives for the creativity and dynamism that will result in early future-oriented jobs, even in structurally weaker regions of europe. at the same time, the key element of the framework programme has to be its scientific quality. only scientific excellence provides for credibility, which should become the main criterion for scientific funding.
mr president, this is a really comprehensive and important report. i have two observations. firstly, the prevention of disasters has to be seen as being equally important as the response to them. therefore, enhancing the eu emergency reaction capacity has to be linked with the commission preparing an efficient eu strategy to reduce the risk of disasters and ensure their early identification. secondly, i support the european parliament’s call for the commission to come forward with proposals for an eu civil protection force based on the eu civil protection mechanism. that would better combine the resources necessary to provide both civilian protection and immediate emergency aid to the victims.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. i voted in favour of the report on european tourism today because i believe that these are important proposals for the promotion of the european tourism sector. the importance of tourism cannot be underestimated it still contributes 10% of european gdp and 12% of employment, making it the third largest socioeconomic activity. i am particularly pleased that the report highlights the importance of several types of tourism, such as rural and agricultural tourism, nature tourism, cruise tourism and spa and health tourism. these are also important tourist destinations in estonia, the development of which, especially in terms of rural and nature tourism, needs greater attention. i also support the use of common european labelling systems, both for cultural heritage and for eco-labels and quality labels. the use of common labels greatly simplifies the choice of tourist consumers and ensures a common understanding of the requirements to which the service meets. unfortunately, this is a source of considerable confusion today, as the stars used to assess the quality of hotels, for example, are used differently in different member states, which has led to disappointment for many customers. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleagues for their support of this report. thank you!
in writing. – this summit should mark the eu´s will and commitment to its eastern neighbourhood. the eu has to demonstrate that its eastern neighbourhood is of highest strategic and political importance. it is crucial that we show our eastern neighbours the same dedication as we do to our southern neighbours. an increased budget is a must to ensure sufficient tailored assistance. i especially would like to underline the importance of the new association agreement with ukraine which is about to be signed in december this year. ukraine has demonstrated its willingness and readiness to be part of europe and despite backlashes has pursued its policies towards deeper european integration. we need to fully acknowledge this fact and make sure these developments will continue by signing the association agreement as soon as possible. i call also upon our eastern neighbours to step up their efforts towards respect of human rights, democracy, and freedom of speech, media freedom and rule of law. the eu is based on these values and it is crucial that our eastern neighbours fully implement and respect these values in order to pursue further european integration.
mr president, my country, estonia, is completing its ninth month in the turbulent eurozone, but i am still clear that the best way to defend the interests of estonia or france or portugal is to stand united and to defend first of all the interests of europe as a whole. fingers have today been pointed at the council. its will and leadership in acting decisively and convincingly will be crucial to restore trust in the eurozone and the european union as a whole. continuing with intergovernmental methods is probably a certain way back to chaos. we now need to head towards an economic union whose speed cannot be dictated by its slowest members. as for the financial stability facility, it has been tailored to address the crisis in the smaller states. now the contagion has spread to the big states, and i wonder whether the competences of this authority should now be expanded.
in writing. − i congratulate parliament and my political group the epp for the adoption of the economic governance package. the very fact that majority of this house supports the framework of urgent legislative measures to prevent further financial crisis, introducing necessary fiscal discipline, provides hope that the crisis can be overcome. especially important is introducing the automatic sanctions mechanism, which could lead us to relying more on the community method. the commission has to take the lead in this issue, with member states who are unable to fulfil the necessary economic criteria taking responsibility. the speed of the eu as a whole cannot be dictated by the slowest ones. continued domination of the intergovernmental method will turn the eu backward. the only way to restore confidence and boost economic growth will be moving from financial union toward an economic union while bringing the single market to its completion in all sectors, including the services and digital market sectors.
in writing. – the crisis is getting worse. the banking sector is under extreme stress. the six-pack constitutes a sound basis, but it is not sufficient. we need strong european coordination, economic governance based entirely on community method. and we need a clear timeframe of measures to restore confidence. this is an all-european crisis, not only a problem of the eurozone. reform is needed throughout europe, not only in the eurozone. the central issue of further expansion of solidarity and the efsf will be conditionality. conducting real structural reforms should be the principal condition for receiving further financial support. this has to apply for all circumstances, including support to recapitalise banks. public capital injections require public control of bank management, including strict control of dividend policies, bonuses and salaries. next to austerity measures we also need growth and jobs. the ec has a key role here to finally make full use of the potential of the single market. there is absolutely no moral or political justification to further delay the completion of the single market. more than two thirds of the eu economy is vested in the service sector, of which the major part is still not integrated. this is another precondition and lever to regain confidence for the eu.
in writing. – mr president, i object to the way the council has handled the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. for the moment the council has postponed their accession indefinitely, despite the fact that, according to the commission’s progress reports, both countries had fulfilled all the required technical and legal criteria, which has also been reiterated by the commissioner today. as a champion of transparency the european union cannot afford to discredit itself by applying the terms laid out in the eu accession treaties in an arbitrary manner. if the current criteria are deemed insufficient or incomplete, they should be amended accordingly in cooperation with the involved parties. instead the council has opted for a political decision without a proper legal basis. such discrepancies must be avoided in the future by exerting more foresight when devising any criteria that are to be applied in a uniform manner. failure to live up to one’s principles at home also inflicts damage on the reliability of the eu abroad.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is a pity to see that the arab spring for democracy – now in autumn – is falling back into violence. the alde group condemns the clashes between different religious groups in egypt; furthermore it condemns the excessive use of force by the military. freedom of religion must be protected, as well as the right to demonstrate peacefully while upholding law and order without infringing human rights. we call on the egyptian authorities to maintain this delicate balance to prevent the nation finding itself going out of the frying pan into the fire. the blocking of the syrian pro-democracy resolution in the united nations security council by russia and china is an utter disgrace. the disappointment of the eu expressed in the council conclusions must be reinforced by increasing pressure on international actors to take a strong stance against the killing, mass arrests and torture of civilians in syria. in yemen and bahrain the regimes must put an end to violence, human rights violations and the suppression of the opposition, and give way to a peaceful regime transition. the revolutionary wave that calls for democracy in the arab world should not be left to wither.
mr president, the appalling fact of the latest massacre of copts in egypt is that it happened under the new interim government, only a month before what it is hoped will be free elections. this will cast serious doubts on the democratic prospects for egypt. copts are among the oldest inhabitants of this ancient country and they participated actively, and in a spirit of solidarity, in demonstrations that put an end to the previous regime. the egyptian revolution is – as you put it, baroness ashton – owned by all its citizens, including copts. now our external action service has to address this problem in a very forceful way, and i think we need to remind the new regimes that the basic criterion for democracy remains the establishment of secular constitutionalism. we need to indicate clearly that founding the constitutions of the revolutionary arab countries on sharia law is bound to legalise ongoing discrimination and the persecution of minorities. democracy and human rights will not triumph if the constitutional starting point for the new regimes is fundamentally tilted in favour of a single dominant tradition.
madam president, disregard of the rule of law in the trial of yulia tymoshenko is deeply disappointing. however, before influencing the conclusion of the association agreement with the ukraine we should keep in mind that there are several political games being played simultaneously in both kiev and moscow. have the ukrainians really shot themselves in the foot or is there a hint of the good old divide et impera? hindering progress towards the association agreement also seems to work for the kremlin. ukraine is already being held hostage by an economically unreasonable gas contract, and driving a wedge between the eu and ukraine pushes the country towards greater dependence on russia. i support the conclusion of the association agreement despite setbacks because this is in the interests of the european union and especially in the interests of the people of ukraine.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. given the important role of vat in harmonising tax differentials to achieve the single market and to reduce red tape and ensure the vat revenue of the member states, i am pleased that we have been able to address this issue. i think this report on the reform of the vat system is important because it offers a solution to the problem of the transport sector by providing equal opportunities for all modes of transport. member states should ensure that similar goods and services are treated in the same way for the purposes of vat and that different cross-border transport services are taxed in the same way, irrespective of the mode of transport. i also support the proposal in the report, which takes into account the public interest and social and environmental considerations, to introduce a lower vat rate or a zero rate for public transport (urban, suburban and regional). given that 99% of businesses in the european union are small or medium-sized enterprises, reducing the administrative burden on smes is also of great importance. the report states that the administrative burden should be reduced by 25% by 2012. among the measures proposed in this report, there is a section on the wider use of e-government solutions, in particular for the electronic submission of vat returns and statements. as estonia has been a good e-country over the last decades, i agree with the proposed resolution. thank you!
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. i voted for the report on the future of vat! given the important role of vat in harmonising tax differentials to achieve the single market and to reduce red tape and ensure the vat revenue of the member states, i am pleased that we have been able to address this issue. i think this report on the reform of the vat system is important because it offers a solution to the problem of the transport sector by providing equal opportunities for all modes of transport. member states should ensure that similar goods and services are treated in the same way for the purposes of vat and that different cross-border transport services are taxed in the same way, irrespective of the mode of transport. the fact that certain modes of transport, such as bus and train transport, are subject to vat while air and sea transport are exempt creates unequal conditions for the provision of the same cross-border transport services. given that 99% of businesses in the european union are small or medium-sized enterprises, reducing the administrative burden on smes is also of great importance. the report states that the administrative burden should be reduced by 25% by 2012. i sincerely hope that the member states will accept these amendments! thank you!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint epp, alde, s&d, and greens resolution; nevertheless i find adding the following points very valuable. we have to concentrate also on growth and jobs, after austerity measures. this means that fiscal consolidation has to be accompanied by clearly defined long-term macroeconomic targets, including those identified in the europe 2020 strategy. we have to prioritise especially our fight against unemployment, with the main focus on youth unemployment. this will cause a new crisis in the not so distant future if we do not take it seriously today. secondly, we need to boost trade and win back trust from our strategic partner countries. in this matter we have to seriously look into reducing non-tariff barriers and other regulatory obstacles to trade. the eu needs to define regulatory dialogues with these key countries as one of the key regulatory priorities of the new eu trade policy under the europe 2020 strategy. the eu has to ensure coherent and coordinated implementation of bilateral, plurilateral and multilateral trade rules.
in writing. − i have two major concerns over the resolution on the preparation for the european council meeting on 23 october. first, i think that we should not be moving in the direction of harmonising the member states’ tax systems. i believe that this policy area must be left strictly to the member states themselves to regulate. we must be very careful not to make changes that would harm our markets and our internal competitiveness. i believe that different tax systems help to induce progress and maintain a higher level of competitiveness for the eu, vis-à-vis third countries as well. secondly, i would like to point out that issuing european sovereign bonds without a strong commitment by the member states in their monetary and fiscal sector will create even bigger problems and cannot be considered as a sustainable solution in the long term.
in writing. – europe has been slow in responding to the current financial crisis. the focus has been put on fighting the fire instead of investing in the future. may i remind the member states that the drivers of economic growth and creators of new jobs are, and continue to be, smes. it is really alarming to see from the 2011 small business act review that at national level it is mostly the same limited number of member states that are engaging seriously in implementing the sba. an urgent task for the member states is to review the sme financing schemes and administrative burdens, making their application and reporting procedures less bureaucratic. the eu’s good example in establishing the ‘only once’ principle, which would prevent public authorities and administrative bodies from requesting the same information on different occasions, should be applied unconditionally to ensure smes see a radical reduction of administrative bureaucracy. also, improved and more efficient loan guarantee schemes should be made available for smes with no further delay. for the ‘sme test’ to be effectively implemented in every member states, the eu should develop clear guidelines to ensure the quality and regularity of the test in question.
in writing. − to increase the inclusion of people with disabilities in employment and to promote a sustainable society, member states should develop and implement a disability policy. a starting point should be for all member states to accede to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and to take seriously the objectives set out therein. in today's society, technological advances have made it possible to employ people with disabilities in a variety of jobs, and in view of our ageing society and the rapid increase in the number of people in need of assistance, the use of people with disabilities as a full-fledged workforce is of paramount importance. i fully support this report and hope that the equal opportunities for people with disabilities to participate in and shape society will not remain mere words but will be taken in real steps.
in writing. − i regret that in the context of the economic crisis, the free movement of workers has not been sufficiently implemented and that for many citizens of the member states that joined the eu in 2004 and 2007 there are still obstacles to participation in the european labour market. experience so far has shown only positive effects on the european economy, as member states with ageing populations need new labour and people living in countries with high unemployment need jobs. perhaps supply and demand are essentially in balance and we should not put obstacles in the way of this because it would be contrary to the fundamental principles of the european union. of course, the arrival of large numbers of immigrants can create integration problems, especially in smaller societies, but providing free language training and the necessary information is crucial to overcome these problems. i support the report which draws attention to this problem and i hope that our european and national decision-makers will also understand that the free movement of workers is the key to the success of a strong european economy, not just a problem of integration.
in writing. − when solving problems in a particular area, it is sensible to use solutions that have proved their worth in the practice of other eu member states. however, the implementation of best practice must also take into account the specificities of the member states, their historical experience and their stage of development in dealing with the issue. for example, the provision of tax incentives to single mothers may encourage the emergence of formal single mothers, particularly in poorer member states. however, the system of support measures should be organised in such a way as to prevent any abuse. the most important issues are, first and foremost, the employment of single mothers, who as the sole breadwinners of the family depend on the well-being and future of their children. surely there must be a safeguard for the young ones. i find it regrettable that single mothers in many societies are left with their problems essentially alone and are treated with indifference, even contempt. i support this report, which well highlights the main problems facing the individual and also proposes the necessary solutions.
in writing. i find it extremely regrettable that the council has not been able to adopt a position on the maternity leave directive (92/85/eec) to date. i understand that this is a difficult issue, given the financial crisis and the differences between the member states, but if negotiations between parliament and the council are opened, the necessary compromise can also be reached. the demographic future of europe is not a bright one and, having discussed this situation, we adopted a resolution in this house in 2008 calling for action on the length and protection of maternity leave, convinced that appropriate policies can influence the birth rate curve by creating a materially and psychologically favourable environment for the family. we have spoken a lot about equal opportunities and equal rights for men and women in the labour market and it is clear that longer maternity leave and including paternity leave provides a better basis for this.
in writing. – mr president, president of the european council and of the commission, i believe that yesterday’s council meeting proved how tough the situation is at the moment. there is no quick and easy solution, taking into account the enormous number of economic variables and possible consequences that must be kept in mind. recent years have shown that most of the measures that have been taken so far have been inadequate. if members of the eurozone cannot curtail their spending and balance their budgets, then we are likely to face an even greater crisis. we cannot go on living indefinitely beyond our means - we must return to the real economy. i am concerned that, if the increase of the efsf and the rest of the package do not live up to our expectations and greece defaults, it will diminish investors’ trust in investing in the rest of the eurozone. i hope that further concrete measures to tackle the growing debts in the eurozone will be presented without delay.
i would also like to explain why i supported this resolution and why i voted against certain parts of it. first of all, i'm also a co-author of this resolution and this resolution is far from an ideal resolution, especially the part that says in paragraph two that the trial of tymoshenko violates human rights. i don't think so, and that's why i voted against it. but i will support this resolution as a compromise here in parliament and i support it because this resolution gives a very clear european perspective to ukraine, to the ukrainian government, to the ukrainian people. i like very much the first paragraph, which says that any european country that meets the criteria may one day become a member of the european union. of course i expect ukraine to continue with its reforms and all the commitments that have been made, but the other reason why i supported this resolution is that it says exactly that before the summit at the end of this year the possibilities for continuing negotiations will still be examined.
in writing. − it is regrettable that the fight against child sexual abuse and child pornography has been neglected due to various global problems. child pornography is flooding the anonymous internet, and unfortunately, european law enforcement agencies have great difficulty identifying its distributors, which has given them a sense of impunity. child sex abusers must consider that their actions have extremely serious consequences for both the victims and themselves through the administration of justice. i am positive that this report will improve the pan-european legal framework and also put more emphasis on prevention. the establishment of an information service and the training of officials to better identify victims or potential victims of sexual exploitation is certainly very important.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. the growing violence towards christians in north africa and the middle east is an extremely worrying trend. the eu must strengthen its call for religious tolerance and equal opportunities. i remind the eu that the european parliament has called for mainstreaming the freedom of religion in eu human rights policy. the revolution in egypt has brought down a dictator, but has not ended the violence. recent extreme violence against the coptic christians cannot be tolerated by the international community. the eu should strongly demand the removal of references to religion in all official documents, guaranteed equal access to all public and political posts, access to unconditional, free medical treatment for the wounded and the release of the 28 christians held in custody in maspero. action is needed now, especially in view of the fact that egyptian public media have called for violence and the possible threat of radical islamisation until and during the upcoming elections, as indicated by statements of high officials such as major general rouini, who has claimed that the entire army and population of egypt is salafist.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because ukraine has high importance for the eu and we therefore have especially to remind ukraine of its obligations to fulfil the criteria of the rule of law and an independent judiciary. nevertheless, i would like to underline the importance of the efta. ukraine is at the crossroads and the eu has to demonstrate its political commitment to engage in deeper and far-reaching relations with this country. i support conditionality and reciprocity. all the same, i call on the eu to be careful in its assessment of whether to delay the signing of the efta. we should not forget that ukrainians are europeans and that their future is associated with the eu. various civil society organisations are vocally calling for efta without delay and i believe we have to listen to them. the eu should not give in on its demands for an independent judiciary, but it should also think twice before putting efta in the balance during the political bargaining, considering that the people who will suffer most from the delay are the ordinary ukrainian citizens.
in writing. − i did not support the emphasis put on the events in ukraine in the resolution. it is not within the competence of the european parliament to be what is called the lawyer of yulia tymoshenko. the resolution's hotline is running out of steam. the conviction of the former prime minister was an assessment of his actions, of the excessive powers he exercised and of the controversial decision of the government to act in a positive manner, which allowed ukraine to enter into an economically harmful agreement with the russian federation. therefore, it is not correct to call the judgment a violation of human rights and the process a political one. although, it's true, every trial of a politician is political in some way. we in this parliament are also involved in making the process political.
in writing. − the motion for a resolution on ukraine touches some very fundamental issues for the people of both the eu and ukraine. although we need to focus more sharply on ukraine, we have to be stricter as regards the eu's actions as well. if biased political trials against the opposition are against freedom, democracy and human rights in ukraine, so is neglecting the security of our own member states. namely, the decision of the french president to sell a mistral-class warship to russia calls into question peace and security in the baltic sea and black sea area. furthermore (ceterum censeo), i am convinced france will sincerely regret its decision to sell a mistral-class warship to russia.
author. − mr president, despite the fact that the socialists are ignoring this resolution in this house, the liberals think it is very important because the blatantly restrictive situation in tibet, in particular in ngaba county, has this year driven ten tibetans to self-immolation. these desperate acts of protest, which have been provoked by the increasingly suppressive policies of beijing, require a global diplomatic intervention. there is no time to lose. we therefore call for the human rights situation in tibet to be addressed with the president of the people’s republic of china at the upcoming g20 summit on 3 and 4 november in cannes. i trust that president barroso and president van rompuy will convey our unequivocal concern to president hu jintao. human rights are not a matter of convenience but of principle. the high representative and the eeas have been tasked with raising the human rights issue at the next eu-china summit and constantly monitor the human rights situation in china. every opportunity must be used to remind beijing of our ceaseless concern over the ongoing human rights violations in tibet. the chinese authorities may place fire extinguishers on the streets to prevent self-immolations, but they are unable to smother the flame of freedom in the hearts of the people of tibet and silence their call for meaningful autonomy.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the arrest of rafah nached in damascus is an example of the haphazard repressive measures that the syrian regime is taking against its own people. she is one of many who have been detained by the authorities for alleged activities that are said to be likely to destabilise the state. arbitrary arrests and vague accusations indicate that president al-assad’s regime has become mistrustful of virtually every syrian citizen and can no longer tell the difference between compassion and confrontation. the deepening paranoia of syrian authorities may be considered – perhaps – a positive sign; all governments should be afraid of their people. however, people should not be afraid of their government and for that matter the syrian regime has crossed all the lines. president al-assad must end the violence and turn the power over to the people so that a democratic transition can commence.
the main objectives of the first railway package, which entered into force in 2003, were the creation of a single railway area, the licensing of railway undertakings and the optimisation of the use of railway infrastructure and the fixing of charges for its use. unfortunately, the desired objectives were not achieved mainly due to the following reasons: 1) insufficient infrastructure and less favourable financing compared to road transport; (2) distorting competition; (3) the scarcity and inefficiency of monitoring organisations. the rapporteur initially proposed a complete separation, i.e. the infrastructure owner and the transport operator cannot be the same organisation. such a change has been implemented in estonia. however, this has caused a great deal of controversy both within the tran committee and within the various political groups. at present, a higher allocation is recommended to member states, but for full allocation the commission must come up with a proposal based on studies. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. one of the more important points of discussion is the further financing of infrastructure, where the need for greater public involvement and development of the community rail network is seen. it also sets recommended and permissible limits for user charges, which must ensure equal treatment of all market participants and adequate financing of railway infrastructure. however, the baltic states are allowed to apply higher user charges, since their track gauge is different from the community system and mainly carries third country goods, and the desired practice has worked so far.
in writing. i consider the existence of a european-level action programme of directions to be of the utmost importance in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, despite the fact that social issues are primarily the responsibility of the member states. the european union is one of the richest regions in the world, but the economic crisis has led to a significant increase in the number of people living in and near poverty. the hardest hit by the economic crisis are europe's young people, who are the most unemployed. to avoid the risk of poverty, they are forced to choose between "perpetual student" status or living with their parents for a long time. women are also in a difficult situation, with an employment rate 13% lower than men and earning significantly less than men. as a result, for example, women pensioners have lower incomes and a higher risk of poverty. the continuing increase in the number of people living in poverty is a threat to european security. europe needs a balanced society and that is why i fully support this report, which aims to achieve just that.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. empowering consumers and ensuring clear and correct information about services, products and similar should be a core principle in europe. i very much support the ec initiative to launch a consumer agenda which aims to deal with existing and forthcoming consumer policies coherently. we need to ensure that all areas of consumer policy are integrated and the policy is applied in a holistic manner. the european consumer should benefit from one of the biggest markets in the world. the completion of the european single market is a must to ensure that. i would also draw attention to the european digital single market where especially in cross-border transactions we can still witness significant difficulties and gaps in both e-commerce and also in consumer protection. these gaps need to be closed rapidly and e-commerce should be made easily accessible and available across the eu on same terms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. fighting poverty and social exclusion on all levels is especially important in difficult times as today. i would especially like to underline the importance of tackling the poverty among children and young people. we need ensure that all children and young people receive q quality education that is fully accessible and affordable. we need to ensure that all children and young people have full access to health care. we have to take care of the vulnerable in our society, ensuring that if for whatever reason their parents are unable to take care of them, they still can obtain education, health care and thus are able to provide for themselves and their families at a later stage of their lives. youth unemployment is not a new phenomenon that has arisen during the last years; it's been a constant problem in europe for long time and is currently nearly 20%. europe needs reforms and it needs bold reforms now to educate its children and young people and to integrate educational systems with the real needs of the labour market. europe will not be able to continue its success story without educated, working and healthy young people!
in writing. – mr president, presidents of the european council, the commission and the eurogroup, just as in a shakespearean tragedy the european union must, like hamlet, ask: ‘to be, or not to be, that is the question: whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, or to take arms against a sea of troubles, and by opposing end them? to die, to sleep...’ the question that expects a swift response is just as existential, as in principle there are two extremes: either to abandon the european project as such altogether or to reinforce it radically. all the other options fall between the two, yet it must be kept in mind that any half-hearted effort that stalls progress towards an effective solution that actually saves the eurozone only paves the way for the ultimate demise of the eu. my concerns are primarily related to the security of eastern europe. i am afraid that the current division within the eu on the solution of the crisis only works against us, therefore i call for more purposeful action. we will not survive with a solution that everyone can accept, but with a solution that works.
in writing. − i support the initiative launched by the member states of the european union in 2006 to highlight the most important monuments of the european union's historical and cultural heritage. however, in order for this initiative to work effectively and to achieve international recognition, it should be made an official action of the european union. unlike the previously recognised badges distributed in the member states, the european cultural heritage label would highlight the most important milestones or symbolic values in the history of the european union. i think it's important both from the perspective of recording history and for example in the education of young people. in addition, the distribution of such labels better illustrates the common history of europe and thus further the integration of the european union. on this basis, i support the paliadel report on the european union action on the european cultural heritage label.
in writing. − for europe to be a truly integrated and competitive railway area, it is vital that the european union and the member states invest more in rail infrastructure. the situation of european railways varies greatly from one member state to another, as many member states are contributing more to the development of a rail network that is more environmentally sustainable than road transport. the rail network situation is much worse in eastern europe, including my home country of estonia, where the railway network is also integrated with the russian federation rather than western europe, which means that goods and passengers are transported mainly by road, which is more polluting and poses a serious threat to human life. however, the increase in the share of road transport is also contrary to the desired in the relevant european strategies, where the priority is to increase the share of rail transport as a more environmentally friendly mode of transport. the european union's support for projects such as rail baltica, which will link the railway networks of western and eastern europe and create a truly single european railway area, is key to achieving this objective. i fully support this report, which is precisely what it is about.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. in today's vote i supported the adoption of the final vote on the report on the review of the single railway area directive. unfortunately, some of the amendments were not supported. two of them are below. first, the amendment, which does not provide sufficient clarity on the use of public funds, was supported. this creates the possibility for the undertaking owning both the infrastructure and the operation of the transport to use the public support for purposes other than the development of the infrastructure. secondly, the amendment proposal which adds to the direct costs of the transport operator the costs of restaurants and kindergartens, which clearly should not be included, was supported. it is welcome that the alde initiative has supported the increase in the rights and obligations of the monitoring organisations and has clarified their funding. in addition, the proposal to define the rights and obligations of railway service providers and to separate them from the largest railway undertakings in order to ensure the availability of services and a level playing field for all market participants was supported. the rapporteur did call for full liberalisation, but unfortunately it did not find support in parliament and no major breakthrough was made in this respect. the support for the amendment concerning the baltic states is certainly noteworthy. this will allow the continuation of the existing system of user charges, which avoids the use of public funds to subsidize freight from third countries.
in writing. − i support the positions expressed in the resolution, considering it important that the eu should continue to fight for the kyoto protocol and keep co2 emissions under control beyond 2012. it is regrettable that many advanced industrial nations, such as the united states and australia, have not joined the kyoto protocol to date, fearing the negative impact on the economy. but the european union, as the world's greenest economy, has shown that these fears are unfounded and that the development and deployment of green technologies is a growth driver. that is why i also support the proposal to accelerate the pace of reducing greenhouse gases.
madam president, last week the alde group held a conference in helsinki that addressed the deterioration of human rights and democracy in russia, the conclusions of which the high representative is familiar with. we decided to call for reconsidering the eu policy towards russia if the parliamentary and presidential elections are not held in line with the standards for free and fair elections – which seems to be the case. as a member of the council of europe and the osce (organisation for security and cooperation in europe), russia has taken international obligations upon itself. therefore, the elections cannot be regarded as an internal matter of the country. the rise of authoritarianism in russia requires an unequivocal international response, which is why i would ask the high representative to raise this issue at the eu-us summit in washington dc.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i have taken good note of all the remarks that have been made and i will forward them to catherine ashton. let me very briefly go into a number of topics. i had some questions on zeroing. we are making good progress on that. it is a very technical topic; it is about import duties, and you have the cases of the future, the present and the past. for the future, it will be resolved in the coming days because it is going through congress, most probably before the end of the year. there are also very good prospects for the existing cases and how they will be translated into the new system. concerning the past, there is still a discussion on damages that should be paid state to state by the us to the european union. so we are making steady progress with respect to that. on nanotechnology: there was an interesting question, because we are discussing with the us a common definition of nanotechnology. in the meantime, the commission has put forward a definition. there is a good reason for doing so because, in several directives that you have been discussing and that you have voted on in parliament, you have different definitions of nanotechnology. to try at least to come up with a common definition, we should of course start from one european definition and not from five different ones; that is the reason why we have presented a definition of nanotechnology. on raw materials: yes, we are working together with the us on raw materials, and that is in the 2010 tec. the eu and us have launched the eu-us innovation action partnership, which is a framework for developing trade policy strategies to eliminate barriers and to improve the investment and innovation climate by working together on research, recycling, use, transport and extraction of raw materials. the business community has shown a lot of interest in these issues and is pushing for results. four work streams were proposed by the tabd in their letter of 10 may: trade, material flaws research, recycling and waste. they constitute a good basis, but they need to be operationalised. the european union and the us are working on an eu-us roadmap on raw materials. it will build on the elements in the iap but include concrete action items and timelines, and it could be endorsed by tec principles. you will also know that we have together been fighting a case against china before the wto, and that we won it, on raw materials. another topic that has come to the fore a couple of times is visas. the commission attaches great importance to the admission of the four remaining eu member states – bulgaria, cyprus, poland and romania – to the us visa waiver programme and we are continuing to work with us counterparts on solving this issue. in relation to the introduction of the esta fee for travel under the visa waiver programme, the commission has repeatedly voiced concern that these new requirements are inconsistent with us commitments to facilitate transatlantic mobility and constitute an additional burden for european citizens travelling to the us. is iran going to be discussed at the summit? the situation in iran is worrying and we are cooperating with the us closely. we shall continue discussions among the e3+3 concerning iran’s nuclear programme. in view of the deteriorating human rights situation, we have reinforced the eu’s restrictive measures against persons responsible for serious human rights violations in iran, adding 29 persons to the list of those targeted by an assets freeze and a visa ban. in light of the new iaea report, which is to be considered by the board of governors, there are increasing concerns over the iranian nuclear programme and the lack of progress in diplomatic efforts. the eu condemns the continuous expansion of iran’s enrichment programme and we are particularly concerned at the findings of the iaea report. we are urging iran to address international concerns over the nature of its nuclear programme through full cooperation with the iaea and by demonstrating readiness to engage seriously in concrete discussions on confidence-building steps, as proposed by the high representative/vice-president on behalf of the e3+3. there were a lot of questions also on data protection and how long it will take to finalise the negotiations. the negotiations started just six months ago. we have identified a number of important issues that will probably require several rounds of further discussions. considering the complexity of many of the issues and the diverging points of view, negotiations will continue until the agreement is ripe to conclude, especially if we want to achieve added value for our citizens. it will take time, but that is the effort i believe that we have to make.
in writing. – both the eu and the usa are not only facing an economic and financial crisis, but also a crisis of values and value-driven politics. it is high time that both sides agreed on the need to conduct a common value-driven policy at a global level. being the two biggest economies in the world, the eu and usa can efficiently cooperate to solve the crisis only on condition of re-enforcing the moral and ethical basis of their actions. i call on the eu to put greater effort into strengthening and enhancing eu-us relations and to step up the transatlantic partnership. it is highly important that the transatlantic economic area and transatlantic market be given key priority in the eu’s agenda. as the commission has underlined, the eu and us economies are interlinked and this calls for common efforts. both sides have to realize the crucial importance and strategic value of their partnership while acting on the global scene. close relations with china and russia are important, but can never replace the unique bond and partnership the eu and usa have been sharing for decades. this will help us, among other issues, to successfully and rapidly harmonize differences concerning security measures applied to passengers and cargoes.
in writing. − in today's vote i supported the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme to support the further development of an integrated maritime policy. the integrated maritime policy emphasises an integrated approach to the governance and management of the oceans, seas and coastal areas and promotes the integration of all eu maritime-related policies. this regulation specifies the definition, use and funding basis of the programme. the main issues addressed in this report are: better specification of the objectives of the programme, a clear position on its financing and greater involvement of legislators in future decision-making through delegated acts and reporting. in addition, it was fixed that eur 40 million would be allocated to the programme for the years 2011 to 2013. the most important change in this report is certainly the increased involvement of legislators and different levels of government in maritime policy-making. it also specifies that cross-sectoral cooperation platforms and networks involving representatives of national, regional and local authorities, industry, research stakeholders, citizens, civil society organisations and social partners should be promoted.
in writing. − mr president, i welcome the adoption of the report on the negotiations of the eu-georgia association agreement as it marks another milestone on georgia’s way to europe. i would use this opportunity to point out the progress that georgia has made in enforcing democratic and economic reforms and fighting corruption. the firm support of the european union has surely helped the country to stay on track of democratic transition even under enormous pressure in the form of foreign invasion. i endorse the position of the rapporteur on calling russia to reverse its recognition of the separation of the georgian regions of abkhazia and south ossetia and end the occupation of those territories. russia must respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia as well as the inviolability of its internationally-recognized borders as provided for by international law, the un charter, the final act of the helsinki conference on security and cooperation in europe and the relevant un security council resolutions.
in writing. − i support the proposals contained in this report, considering it necessary to consistently recognise the territorial integrity of georgia and to condemn the occupation by the russian federation of the regions of abkhazia and tskhinvali region/south ossetia in georgia. i find it regrettable that the latter is trying to destabilize this region, using the ossetians and the abkhaz for the interests of the great state. if the russian federation really cared about the aspirations of small nations to be independent, then they should also support the independence of, for example, north ossetia (which has about 24 times more ossetians than south ossetia) and chechnya. of course, georgia must also ensure the inclusion of different ethnic groups in society, bearing in mind the importance of religious tolerance. i am positive that the georgian parliament has adopted the law on the registration of religious organisations and that the government has implemented a number of measures in the field of education aimed at better integration and protection of national minorities.
in writing. – the broad-based support in the european parliament to complete croatia’s accession process should be seen as a symbolic hopeful message, not only for croatia but also for the rest of the balkan countries and – not the least – for the eu as a whole. while facing a long-term financial and trust crisis, continuing the enlargement process will help the eu to become less self-centred and to restore confidence in the basic goals and ideals of the european community. i am very glad that we can officially welcome our croatian friends into this house very soon. this is an occasion to further understanding about the importance of croatia’s accession for further eu enlargement, especially in the balkan region. i am truly alarmed about the prolonged political impasse which has blocked the start of accession negotiations with macedonia, despite the commission’s repeated favourable opinion. it is an unprecedented situation. with every candidate country the eu has solved the problems within the framework of the enlargement process, not outside of it. we cannot afford to leave a promising candidate country hanging in uncertainty. i call on our greek colleagues to show solidarity and allow the negotiations to start.
in writing. – i would like to take this chance to express my sincere content that croatia has come so close to becoming a full member of the european union. breaking apart from the socialist federal republic of yugoslavia and declaring its independence in 1991 was a courageously bold move. unfortunately, the long-expected freedom did not come without major sacrifices – the croatians had to fight for it, in the most brutal sense of the word. the war of independence left its scars on the country, but it remained free. in the past 20 years, croatia has become a member of the council of europe and also of the nato. i believe that the accession to the eu will mark the successful completion of the implementation of democracy and other core european values. in february 2003, when croatia submitted its formal application to become a member of the eu, there were many who doubted whether it would be possible in the next ten years. fortunately, they were wrong and i truly believe that the vast majority of europeans will open-heartedly welcome croatia to join the union on 1 july 2013.
in writing. − the green light by the european parliament to the application of croatia to accede to the eu comes at a very right time. when some external actors may wish to see the eu disintegrating, the accession of a new member sends out a reassuring signal: ‘the reports of its death are greatly exaggerated.’ the accession of croatia does not, however, mark the end of the country’s european integration. the experience of estonia as well as of the other member states that have joined recently has taught that even more difficult challenges lay ahead. it is far more demanding to establish a relatively small country as a full-fledged active member state on a routine basis than to meet the fixed criteria and conclude the negotiations. membership calls for a long-term perspective, patience and willingness to compromise for the common good in order to secure the viability of european union as an influential global actor. i look forward to working with my future colleagues from croatia to reach those goals and hope that soon enough we may greet all the western balkans to the european union.
in writing. − i believe that there is a need to amend the rules of procedure of the european parliament, which would also provide a better overview of the remuneration of members for their activities outside parliament and the income derived therefrom. while i support mr casini's report, i do not support amendment no 10 (2) (e) which would require members to declare in the declaration of economic interests only those extra-parliamentary income exceeding eur 5000 per calendar year. i do not think that the introduction of such a threshold is justified, as it would encourage the non-declaration of income falling within the margin of eur 5 000. furthermore, it is not clear why the threshold of eur 5000 should be chosen and not eur 2000 or, say, eur 200? eur 5000 is a lot of money, in many member states it is the full year's income of the average wage earner. i think that in the interests of greater transparency, members of the european parliament should declare all income from extra-parliamentary activities and if we set a ceiling, it could be 10 times less than 500 euros.
in writing. − unlike my group colleagues, i did not vote in favour of the report, which did not support the request of mr viktor uspaski, member of the european parliament for lithuania, to review the european parliament's decision of 7 september 2010 against him. wikileaks has once again confirmed my earlier suspicion that the charges against mr uspaskich, a member of the european parliament, are politically motivated and constitute a breach of procedure. several lithuanian politicians, including government officials, have admitted that a number of procedural rules have been violated and that the charges may not be legally valid, but the withdrawal of the charges against mr. uspaski would damage the reputation of lithuanian government institutions and the judicial system. all this also reminds me of a number of earlier cases involving members of my home party estonian centre party , where after the elections it became clear that the accusations were politically motivated and unfounded. in this case, my priority is not to protect the reputation of lithuanian government institutions and the judiciary, but to protect justice and human rights, which is also one of the flags of the european union.
in writing. − on world aids day, 30 years after the world first learned about hiv and aids, it is still important to draw attention to this painful problem. the european parliament resolution that i supported brings out the statistic that by now 33.3 million people worldwide are infected with hiv - that's the same as the entire population of canada. the good news is that the efforts of society to combat hiv/aids have borne fruit, with new infections falling by almost 20% in the last decade, and aids-related deaths falling similarly in recent years. i must stress above all the importance of making a greater contribution to prevention, because dealing with the consequences is much more costly, and not just financially. to that end, member states should, inter alia, contribute more to research on new preventive technologies and ensure greater involvement of the scientific community and civil society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i support in principle the conclusion of an eu-ukrainian association agreement as soon as possible. but the report also stresses that ukraine has first to solve the problems and issues mentioned (deterioration of rule of law, selective use of justice, human rights breaches). ukraine is clearly part of europe, but its sovereignty is vested in its freedom to show in a convincing way that it also wants to be part of europe in respecting the core values of europe – the rule of law, respect for human rights and freedom of speech. as meps we also have to be aware that the people of ukraine do not necessarily equate with the governing regime. these people deserve to be part of europe and we need to encourage them for a closer integration with europe. but at the end of the day, actions and real changes, not programmes or slogans, will count.
in writing. − i supported this resolution, which recognises ukraine's contribution and achievements to date in relation to the association agreement and also draws attention to the important issues that need to be addressed. however, i do not agree that the european parliament is constantly giving a defence speech to the former ukrainian prime minister yulia tymoshenko, who has been found guilty of corruption in court, because the truth is not black and white on this issue. however, it is gratifying to note that the negotiations with ukraine are among the most advanced in the eastern european region and a model for the european neighbourhood policy as a whole. the association agreement with ukraine will be broader, meaning meaningful integration into europe and broadening the prospects for ukraine's future eu membership.
mr president, the kremlin deceived the people of russia in a number of ways at the state duma elections a week ago. firstly, the people were not granted free elections as provided for in the constitution, because putin’s government refused to register a number of political parties that wished to participate in the elections. secondly, the counting of the votes on the election day was fraudulent. there are reports which say that united russia received much less than 49.54% of the votes. international organisations of which russia is a member cannot approve that. the people of russia are entitled to demand their constitutional rights, namely that the government adheres to the principles of democracy, which ought to be a cornerstone for every member of the council of europe and the osce, including russia. therefore the results of the state duma elections in russia should be deemed null and void.
in writing. – the decisions that were reached at the european council came indeed at a very crucial moment. however, in addition to that, i would like to suggest paying more attention to the e-governance of the member states as well as the eu. the mode in which citizens communicate with their respective countries or the supranational institutions is in many countries still very archaic. it is high time to step into the 21st century and adapt to modern technologies. e-governance is cheap, transparent, decreases bureaucracy and corruption and is convenient and user-friendly for the citizens. i am confident that it complements the austerity measures, while having also a positive impact on societies and governments. estonia is a good example. after introducing e-governance the corruption has decreased significantly – the rate is one of the lowest in the eu. we have managed to cut down the number of public servants to optimum and the citizens are not referred from one office with a typewriter to another. let us put an ‘e’ to europe!
mr president, the excellent report by my colleague mr lisek makes one question absolutely clear: that reducing the defence sector in the course of the financial crisis poses a risk to the credibility of europe as a stabilising force in the world. it is not even the question of reductions in defence expenditure. even more alarming is the way the money is being used. national defence planning continues to be very uncoordinated, which results in capacity gaps, over-capacities and duplications. defence research and technology has a totally insufficient share of our spending. but the message of this report is that the financial crisis also provides opportunities. it is time to end the tradition of isolation in national defence planning and i absolutely agree with the high representative, who said that multinational cooperation pooling and sharing should become a rule rather than the exception in our activities. but i would also like to talk about cyber defence. this is an area which is in need of a decisive breakthrough in established nation-centred models of thinking. more efficient cooperation and qualitatively better coordination are the key requirements, and these are not just good wishes, because the ominous potential of cyber threats is still developing ahead of our preventive and defensive measures. our task is to build more joint cyber-defence exercises and burden-sharing on cyber incident analysis and of course we need also in europe a cyber defence coordinator.
madam president, on 10 december when we celebrated human rights day, the streets of moscow, st petersburg, vladivostok, kaliningrad and 88 other cities in russia were in a state of ferment on account of a series of peaceful protests. the people of russia were calling for the annulment of the rigged elections of 4 december. the alde group expresses its solidarity with the people of russia in their legitimate call for human rights and civil liberties to be respected, and for free and fair elections. human rights are universal everywhere; therefore, the eu must avoid a differentiated approach to different countries. we must be consistent in our statements and policies. the european union stands first and foremost for human rights and democracy, and that is precisely why those values must be reflected as an integral part in all our policies, as well as in our partnerships with third countries.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, may i, through ms de keyser, send my condolences to those who have lost loved ones or who have been injured in this terrible event in liege. i am grateful for the opportunity to talk about the eu-russia summit which, as honourable members know, will take place in brussels beginning tomorrow evening. let me first say a few words by way of opening on the elections. as honourable members know, parliamentary elections to the state duma were held on 4 december. when we discussed in july in this house the preparations for those elections, i expressed then some concerns, especially regarding restrictions to political pluralism. following up on those observations today, the prior exclusion of various opposition parties has been confirmed as a key flaw of those elections. in addition, we have seen reports about procedural violations such as a lack of media impartiality and the lack of clear separation between political party and state. i have also expressed concern at the detention of protesters demonstrating for free and fair elections, and reports of police violence against activists, journalists and mere observers. in contrast, the large demonstrations over the weekend in russia were peaceful and the authorities, in my view generally handled them very well. i welcome the instructions by president medvedev for all accusations of irregularities to be properly investigated. the electoral legislation that exists in russia provides for appeal and rectification, and we expect of course that this legislation will be respected. the evidence needs to be looked at, and osce/odihr and other organisations will issue their final reports in due course. their findings must be addressed by the authorities in order to allow for smooth and fair presidential elections in march. we should also recognise that the russian people have made full use of existing possibilities to express their dissatisfaction with some aspects of the political situation. to many commentators’ minds, voters expressed their views on issues such as corruption, the lack of political freedoms and their economic situation by voting for other parties, bringing down the registered result for the leading united russia party from 64% in 2007 to less than 50% now. thus the citizens have passed a clear message, and it certainly has not gone unnoticed. both president medvedev and prime minister putin have acknowledged receipt. the future development of democratic institutions in russia, as i said in july, should depend on the russian people and their choices. the eu though is not a bystander. we have close links from the economy to family ties and our common history. when acting together, as strategic partners, the eu and russia can have a decisive influence on key challenges and conflict situations around the globe. we have also taken joint commitments to develop democratic institutions and human rights in the un, the council of europe and the osce frameworks. we will of course be raising our concerns about the elections at the upcoming eu-russia summit tomorrow. for us, modernisation means both russia’s full integration into the international rules-based system and the development of citizens’ rights and freedoms and i am pleased to report that this approach of constructive engagement does work. the summit may actually produce a number of results. let me mention russia’s wto accession first, which should be officially decided in geneva on friday. as russia’s largest trading partner by far, the eu was a crucial partner in the 18-year-long negotiations. as former trade commissioner, i had my own personal experience in this process. wto accession will be a historic moment which will open a new chapter in our bilateral relations. it will bind russia to international trading rules, open new opportunities for trade and investment and protect our companies from arbitrary decisions. wto accession should also give new momentum to negotiations on the new eu-russia agreement. on visas and mobility, the presidents will be approving a list of common steps towards visa-free travel, full implementation of which should lead to the opening of visa waiver negotiations. this process implies a significant modernisation in areas like migration policy and border management, but also guarantees for the respect of fundamental rights. improved mobility and people-to-people contacts will bring our people closer together and facilitate the exchange of experience and values, cultural cooperation and business. last but not least, the partnership for modernisation is under full implementation, with new projects being prepared. at the summit, we will re-emphasise our conviction that modernisation is not only about technology. rule of law, protection of citizens’ rights, civil society engagement, and a level playing field for companies are all crucial elements of successful modernisation. let me finish with a few words on foreign policy. russia is a major partner for the eu. sergey lavrov and i meet regularly and try to build common approaches to the most pressing international issues. generally we succeed, but in some cases our positions differ. the obvious example at the moment is syria, which will no doubt be under discussion at the summit. we also need to advance on protracted conflicts. on transnistria, we have managed to restart formal 5+2 talks. progress on substance now needs to follow. we will continue to engage in order to support the mediation efforts over nagorno karabakh by the minsk group, in which russia is a member. as i mentioned earlier, i visited the south caucasus last month and we are concerned about the lack of progress in these talks, as tension is very clear throughout the region. and we will continue to engage russia over georgia, where russia still needs to fully implement the commitments it made in the august and september 2008 agreements. let me conclude. as you see, we have a broad agenda with russia, which reflects the way in which our economies, our societies and our strategic concerns are increasingly intertwined. as we remove barriers to trade, travel and exchange, the outlook and expectations of our citizens can be expected more and more to converge and the fundamental interest of cooperation will increase. our ambition is for eu relations with russia to be the engine for this modernisation process, which we have always maintained must be both economic and political.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i think this is a very important moment just now before the eu-russia summit, because there has been a sweeping change of attitudes and moods among the russian population. i think the most significant change that has happened is in the minds and attitudes of the russian people, who have lost their indifference towards politics, who are taking an active part in monitoring elections and protesting against the rigging of the same. and the second thing we have to take note of is that mr putin’s party has become a minority party. at a meeting last week with russian opposition leaders, together with mr kasparov, in brussels, it became very clear that even this figure of 49% is not trustworthy and that the real result might be much lower, about 30%. now there is a question for the eu and we must consider our opportunities: what to do, how to change and how to help restore democracy in russia? i think that business as usual will not do it. as the russian author lilia shevtsova has said, russian style thus far has been to pretend that they do have democracy and the style of european leaders has been to pretend that we believe this. this time has now passed and we have to react in a similar way to how we reacted to the arab spring. there might be a russian spring also and we need to take this into consideration. so i would ask the high representative to convey to our russian counterparts the message that we take democracy seriously, we take the intentions of russian voters and the russian population seriously and that their leaders have to change their style. this includes also putting restrictions upon officials who are guilty in the magnitsky case and also of rigging elections.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the primary issue with regard to eu-russia relations at present is the legitimacy of the russian state duma elections. taking into account the preliminary conclusions of international and local monitoring organisations, the legitimacy of the newly elected state duma is at best questionable. by extensive ballot stuffing, vote rigging and not allowing several opposition parties to register, the people of russia were not granted their constitutional right to choose their representatives in free and fair elections and frankly, like many russian people, i personally do not believe president medvedev’s promises to check up the results of the last elections. although russia is and will remain an important partner to the eu, our economic interests may not overshadow the principles of democracy that the european union stands for. thus, the eu should thoroughly review how to proceed with a partner that lacks the necessary mandate to represent its citizens. yeltsin’s russia is in the past and now we are dealing with putin’s authoritarian state. the idealistic approach that we can prevent the kremlin from turning russia into an authoritarian state by working as peers in different organisations has obviously failed. the harsh truth is that with putin and his cronies in the kremlin it is unlikely that the long-term objectives or the values of the eu and russia could be conciliated. first, i would call on the high representative to insist that all the peaceful demonstrators who were arrested by the russian authorities are released. second, the russian authorities must be reminded of their international obligations stemming, in particular, from russia’s membership of the council of europe and the osce. russia must hold new elections – free and fair elections.
in writing. – i am especially grateful to the polish presidency for its commitment to the eu strategy for the baltic sea region. probably for the first time, the polish government presented, before its presidency, detailed plans on how to coordinate and enforce further implementation of the eu sbsr. i invite the polish presidency to encourage the other two members of the presidency trio, especially denmark, to continue their commitment. it is important to better coordinate the implementation of the first eu macro-regional strategy both by the eu council and the commission. one other option will be a rotating presidency, on the basis of which each of the eight baltic sea member states would take responsibility for a certain period for the coordination of the strategy with the aim of achieving added value and concentrating on synergy and regional projects instead of splitting the projects between nationally-orientated shopping lists. poland has achieved, with honour, one of its major goals, announced in july. the accession negotiations with croatia have been concluded successfully and on time. against the background of continuing economic crisis, the prospect of croatia soon becoming the 28th member state sends a message of hope to the other balkan countries as to the continuing enlargement process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. this is most timely and important initiative. the crucial question will be whether the suggestions of the lisek report will be taken seriously by the eu governments. this is directly connected to the role and credibility of europe as a guarantor of international peace and security. continuing cuts in the defence sector might be popular among certain population groups but seriously undermine the common security and defence policy. the biggest problems of the european defence sector are inefficiency, fragmentation and duplication. member states need to understand the seriousness of this issue and start sharing and pooling their resources. this should result in targeted investments. enhanced cooperation and coordination of efforts is especially needed in the field of cyber defence. sharing information and experience is crucial to prevent and react efficiently to potential threats and attacks.
in writing. - i supported the adoption of this report because i am also concerned about european security and the decline of europe's influence in the world. in the context of economic crisis, continuous cuts in defence spending may seem inevitable, but it is only in difficult situations that we realise that this is not the only right solution from a defence perspective. most european countries have significantly reduced their defense capabilities since the end of the cold war, assuming that the various wars will remain a distant past and that the future is bright. i too believe in a brighter future, one of the foundations of which is the european union. but to protect our values, we must consider various dangers. i find it irresponsible that europe is basically relying on nato's greatest military power, the united states, for security that it is not willing to pay much for. but what happens when the american taxpayer no longer sees the sense in it, because they have their own problems? the current experience in libya has shown that european countries can no longer cope with what is happening in their immediate neighbourhood without the help of the united states. only a few border states, such as greece and poland, which are more sensitive to different threats, contribute more to our common security than average, and my home country estonia also raised its defence spending to 2% of gdp. of course, it is not just the amount of money spent that is important but also how it is spent. it is therefore essential to avoid duplication between member states by increasing the efficiency and harmonisation of the community's defence policy. a more united europe will ensure our credibility and deter those who dare to question our values.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. the eu has now to deliver a clear message on the occasion of the eu-russia summit that continuing violations of rule of law and massive rigging of elections are not acceptable in any circumstances. the point is not just to express traditional toothless concerns but to make it clear that the time for giving russian rulers the benefit of doubt have passed. the great majority of russian people do not support the present regime; mr. putin’s party has become a minority party. such a situation will present a serious obstacle to the eu-russia partnership agreement. obviously the eu cannot complete the agreement while the russian government is breaking international agreements with the council of europe and the osce, and is selectively implementing the energy charter treaty. mr. putin’s russia has not proved to be a reliable partner with which the eu can be sure to stand on common ground. instead, the eu needs to demonstrate solidarity with the russian people and support their demands for fair elections and the rule of law. i support the opposition’s call for new elections, and introducing the eu-wide ban on travelling and freezing of bank accounts for those russian officials who have been involved in the magnitsky case and in the rigging of the elections.
in writing. − i am extremely glad that that the european parliament adopted this resolution ahead of the eu-russia summit this week. the resolution shows that as europeans we will not turn a blind eye when serious human and civil rights violations have taken place. the ballot stuffing and vote rigging in the recent russian state duma elections have made the legitimacy of the new composition of the duma questionable. by adopting this resolution we sent a clear signal to the kremlin that we cannot continue with business as usual and the partnership with russia must be seriously reviewed. if our counterpart does not follow the same principles and values of freedom and justice, then we should first concentrate on solving this problem rather than moving forward to talking about strategic partnership with the russian authorities.
in writing. the european transport sector is at a crossroads. the old problems are still unresolved and new ones have already emerged. the internal transport market is not yet fully developed and solutions must be sought to better meet the travel needs of citizens and the freight needs of the economy, while increasing resource and environmental constraints. the transport systems of eastern and western europe need to be linked in such a way that they reflect the transport needs of our entire continent and its 500 million inhabitants. despite the fact that transport has become more energy efficient, 96% of the eu's energy needs are still dependent on oil and oil products. transport has become more environmentally friendly, but due to increased volumes, it is still a major source of noise and local air pollution. environmental constraints are often portrayed in the transport sector as a confusing and costly issue, but we need to look beyond this - it is a driver of innovation and innovation, which also means a better living environment for our citizens. and, of course, efficient transport is also a prerequisite for participating fully and competitively in the global economy on which europe's continued prosperity depends. at the same time, member states underestimate the added value of transport policy for europe and often suppress it by implementing directives inaccurately or late. the eu's expenditure on transport infrastructure development is significant, with €215 billion needed to overcome the major bottlenecks in the ten-t network alone. i sincerely hope that this report will help us to move in the direction we want and to ensure that the transport system we so badly need is functioning. thank you!
in writing. − i supported the adoption of this report, regretting that the relevant evaluation period for the french renault application has already been over two years. unfortunately, the fact that the redundant workers opted for an early retirement scheme made it difficult to grant the request, which resulted in a conflict with the current egf regulations. however, the pension rights of the redundant workers changed during the pension reform and the beneficiaries were the well-intentioned workers. however, i acknowledge the efforts made by the french government and all parties to resolve the situation and i still consider it right to finance the application of renault from the egf. i think it is very important that there is a fund which offers a great deal of support to people who have been laid off because of the economic crisis in finding a new job through retraining. it is hoped that the egf will also help those member states which have not yet benefited from the egf, due to high levels of own contribution or insufficient administrative capacity. a positive example is the netherlands, which has set itself the goal of maximising the use of eu funds.
in writing. - the respected manager, colleagues! in today's vote, i supported the report which extends the mandate of the european maritime safety agency (emsa). in its 8 years of operation, emsa has done effective work in the field of both maritime safety and marine pollution. this is an efficient and well-run organization. as already mentioned, the emsa mandate will be extended, which will provide the opportunity to develop the european union's single maritime area and single market, using both the blue zone pilot project and satellite tracking systems. the emsa will also be given a key role in improving the training and qualification of seafarers in the european union, as well as in making the seafarer's profession more attractive. a third important additional role is the monitoring of offshore gas and oil installations. i consider it important that emsa has a coordinating role, which allows for a more rational use of the maritime safety resources and skills available in the member states. thank you!
in writing. - the respected manager, colleagues! i voted today in favour of the single european transport area, the so-called white paper. the european transport sector has reached a crossroads. the old problems are still unresolved and new ones have already arisen. the internal transport market is not yet fully developed and solutions must be sought to better meet the travel needs of citizens and the freight needs of the economy, while increasing resource and environmental constraints. the transport systems of eastern and western europe need to be linked in such a way that they reflect the transport needs of our entire continent and its 500 million inhabitants. despite the fact that transport has become more energy efficient, 96% of its energy needs in the eu still depend on oil and oil products. transport has become more environmentally friendly, but due to increased volumes, it is still a major source of noise and local air pollution. environmental constraints are often portrayed in the transport sector as a confusing and costly issue, but we need to look beyond this - it is a driver of innovation and innovation, which also means a better living environment for our citizens. and, of course, efficient transport is also a prerequisite for participating fully and competitively in the global economy on which europe's continued prosperity depends. at the same time, member states underestimate the added value of transport policy for europe and often suppress it by implementing directives inaccurately or late. i supported the report because i sincerely hope that this report will help us to move in the direction we want and to ensure that the transport system we so badly need is functioning. thank you!
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the eu has to tighten and deepen its relations with central asia. nevertheless these relations can only be deepened if the countries in the region commit themselves to respecting fully human rights and the rule of law and to heading towards democracy. i call upon the eu to pay greater attention to this matter and use regional cooperation forums to advance human rights dialogues with the states. special attention needs to be paid to an increasing amount of religiously motivated violence in the region. i wish to point out that the european parliament has asked the eu to mainstream religious aspects in their human rights policy. the partner countries in central asia should also be made aware that resources are a strategic asset that first and foremost should be used to develop their own national economies, invest in local business and education and reduce poverty.
