mr president, first of all i would like to thank catherine stihller for this very good report. it is very important to pay attention to the harmonization of trade in construction products, because we need better and higher quality construction in the future. it must be remembered that, although this is a highly competitive field, the important thing is not just the competition itself but the result. it is important that the buildings being built in europe can be safe for their users and that they are safe during the construction process for the builders and other workers. it is very important that harmonisation also takes place in the field of trade in construction products and that this allows for the exchange of best practices. it is true that in many european countries materials are still used today that are not healthy for the inhabitants. for example, we have a widespread problem of homeopathy in many member states of the european union and it is therefore important to use best practice and innovation to ensure that we can market building products in such a way that they are healthy and good for their users. so, mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr stihl, for this excellent report. europe needs good construction products and trade that takes account of safety requirements.
mr president, first of all i would like to say that it is very good that the european parliament has recognised agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security. it is very important for us to ensure that the food we produce in the european union is above all healthy and clean. i am a little concerned that we have paid more attention to quantity than to quality. the efficiency requirement has, in a way, ignored these health requirements. when we talk about food safety, it is very important to ensure that the food we offer to european consumers is safe, good and nutritious. it is also very important to ensure that the national agriculture of the various member states of the european union is preserved. when we face natural disasters, it's important that we have self-sufficient agriculture. in this way we can answer the questions that may arise in connection with various disasters by applying the principle of proximity. i would like to stress, mr president, first of all these principles which are important and which arise from health. i hope that this kind of neighbourhood development can be achieved. it is important to ensure that farmers have good conditions for farming throughout europe and that farming can be carried out in every member state of the european union. it is a way of life and a solid foundation for the future, which is what we need in the food sector.
in writing. - mr president, it is high time to reform and replace the construction products directive with a more effective regulation, which will allow us to ensure in concrete terms the free movement of construction products in the internal market. the commission is right to take the initiative to facilitate the practical implementation of the existing directive and to improve its enforcement. construction products are clearly different from other products whose mobility within the internal market is governed by directives. whereas directives generally harmonise product safety requirements, construction products are intermediate products intended to be incorporated into a building object and, because of this specific characteristic, the objectives of the construction products directive are achieved by defining successfully harmonised means of expressing the level of performance of a product accurately and reliably. in this respect, the new regulation brings a great improvement. it is important to take account of the different conditions across europe in order to preserve the viability of micro-enterprises operating locally. member states naturally set different requirements for the site, depending on climatic conditions. however, it is important to address and eliminate unnecessary testing requirements in order to reduce unnecessary administrative burden. i believe that this regulation will not only make the internal market work more efficiently but also improve the process of standardisation of construction products in europe. that is why i voted in favour of the regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs marisa matias, for her excellent work on the alzheimer report. alzheimer's disease and dementia are a huge issue for society. in addition to the human cost, the monetary cost is enormous. it is estimated that the cost of treating alzheimer's disease is over 100 billion euros a year. that is more than the commission estimates it would cost to tighten our greenhouse gas emission reduction target to 30%. the number of alzheimer's patients is estimated to double every 20 years. i would like to stress the priority of prevention and early diagnosis. in particular, i hope that more research will be done on the effect of chemicals that inhibit the development of the nervous system on the risk of alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases. the precautionary principle requires that we reduce the use of these chemicals as pesticides in our gardens and fields.
in writing. mr president! memory problems are a common problem in europe. it is estimated that some 10 million europeans are currently suffering from memory disorders. the majority of them have alzheimer's. many factors affect people's ability to remember things and to learn new things. examples of such factors include stress, depression, sadness, heavy alcohol use, poor nutrition, and medication. more attention must be paid to the prevention of memory problems, starting from young age. exercise, mental activity, healthy dietary choices, and avoidance of drugs protect against memory problems. by treating the risk factors for memory disorders, we're also treating the risk factors for cardiovascular disease. mr president, i have to go. the role of information and ngos in the fight against memory disorders must be further emphasised. the work of ngos is very valuable. they need more support to help those with memory problems. in addition, more attention will have to be paid to care facilities and their quality in the future. unfortunately, the number of places available does not match the demand at the moment. for example, in finland there is a particular shortage of comparable and suitable day and long-term care facilities. finally, i would like to draw attention to the support, proper training and development of skills for professionals specialising in the treatment of memory disorders. thank you!
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs marisa mathias for her excellent report on the european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other dementias. one in five europeans suffers from memory problems. memory disorders are increasingly putting pressure on health care systems struggling with an aging population, but also on the patients and their families facing the new situation. there is no consensus on the cause of memory disorders, but early intervention in the progression of the disease is considered a priority. the report puts memory disorders at the top of the eu's health targets. the vote sends a strong message that research and treatment of memory disorders require cooperation at european level. although memory problems are most common in older people, as diagnoses have developed, the first symptoms are increasingly being found in the working population. the european union is also committed to the development of a european information society. national memory programmes have a significant role to play in disseminating knowledge and best practice and in reducing duplication of effort.
mr president, europe is indeed being threatened by the double-edged sword of damocles, the economic crisis and the rise of nationalism, and the two are intertwined. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. unfortunately, this nightmare of collapse is now the mainstream. i would therefore like the commission to be stronger on the issues of social europe. it is very strange that we are weak on these issues. now it's not even a question of whether politics is driven by the market or politics, but politics is moving into the streets. it's turning into protests and being taken over by various extremist groups and the far right. the commission should therefore make social europe a priority, but unfortunately nothing is happening.
mr president, it was high time to create common european rules for the protection of citizens and patients. it was also a good thing that this was made a separate directive and not included in the services directive, because during this work and preparation it has been noted how many issues were still completely unaddressed and unfinished at the time of the adoption of the services directive. this right for patients to access crossborder healthcare forces eu member states to ensure that there are no queues in their own member states. the prior authorisation system is necessary, without which many member states could have difficulties in managing the costs of their own healthcare system and in planning and assessing the future. it could also have led to a situation where the need was not met, but the need was. in fact, this is not the case for many europeans, however, most europeans want to have healthcare close to their home and in their own language. however, such a system is necessary and if there are queues, there is a possibility of receiving treatment from another country.
i think it is very good that this historic compromise has finally been reached between parliament and the council. i can say that this regulation on crossborder healthcare will help to break down the queues that have been created in many member states and will allow for the exchange of best practice. in this context, it is also important to ensure that the interests of patients or the rights of patients are respected. it is equally important to remember that patient safety is a key issue when we collaborate across borders, while ensuring that standards of healthcare and care are in place everywhere. i am therefore pleased, mr president, to welcome this report by mrs grossetête and hope that it will contribute to the promotion of european public health and that this will save many lives and speed up their recovery.
i would also like to express my appreciation, mr president, for this resolution on intercountry adoption. i've been able to follow a few of these cases very closely and i know that there's a lot of bureaucracy in adoption right now and it's good that the bureaucracy can be unraveled. this will help to speed up these processes and increase their transparency. it is in everyone's interest that there be nothing unethical about adoption, nothing that suggests human trafficking or child trafficking. it is vital to ensure that the child is not a tool but a child who, through adoption, finds a loving home and is treated as a unique and valuable individual. it is important that the child has the opportunity and the right to a father and a mother, and therefore it is important to take into account the overall situation in the family when making adoption decisions. these are very sensitive issues. we know that according to some studies we even carry our cultural heritage in our dna, but we should ensure that the child can have a good and loving home and a cultural environment in which he can grow and develop as a balanced human being and citizen.
mr president, i would like to say a few words about the situation in haiti. it is very important to note that, as the update is being made, there has been a lack of coordination. the need for better coordination is reflected in the slow progress that has been made. it is quite true, as mr nirj deva has said before, that the situation is also partly politicised. it's not in anyone's interest to politicize this. haiti needs help and basic necessities with a heartbeat faster than has been seen in the past year. we need to get help to the right places, to the right people. when we look at grassroots work, various aid agencies have done well. looking at the contribution of europe to haiti, many christian relief organizations have done very good work at the grassroots level, helping people to live. it is also worth noting and supporting these efforts, but the crisis in haiti also requires more massive and coordinated action at european and, of course, un level.
mr president, the credibility of the european union's foreign policy is measured by its adherence to its fundamental values of human rights, democracy, the rule of law and freedom of religion. egypt's legal system is in danger of being overshadowed by sharia law, which specifically affects coptic christians. the conference of european churches calls for dialogue between christians and muslims in europe. the european dialogue on religion, the cultured tradition of religion and the tradition of religious education are also assets that can be used in european policy. christianity and other religions are peace movements like the european union. at its best, religion unites rather than divides; we must not allow terrorists to use religion as a tool of barbaric politics.
mr president, commissioner, i do not wish to minimize the pressure that other religions are under, but the statistics speak volumes: 75 per cent of those threatened or killed for their faith are christians, and some 100 million christians around the world are persecuted and subjected to violence because of their faith. the situation in the middle east has become particularly worrying recently, as we have heard here. attacks on religious services in iraq, egypt, and syria have killed scores of people, including children. the rest of the world is also facing challenges. the rapid economic growth of asian countries is masking serious violations of fundamental and human rights. in countries such as china, india, and vietnam, religious freedom is largely a matter of paper. it must be acknowledged that the eu and its member states turn a blind eye to this, partly because of trade relations. however, if the eu wished, it could do so much more to promote the situation of christians and religious freedom in the world, including by requiring a religious freedom clause in all agreements with third countries. that is why i would like to ask you the following question, commissioner: will the future demand a religious freedom clause and also monitor its implementation? the weakness of europe is partly due to the fact that we are losing our own value here. we want to isolate religion into some private space. this is reflected, for example, in the discussion on the crucifix in italy and in the calendar published by the commission, which mrs pack mentioned here, where the christian holidays are completely forgotten. secularism is not the answer to these problems, but respect for dissent and the beliefs of others.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think that the high representative is completely echoing our feelings when she says she was shocked. we were indeed shocked after 19 december, as many of us had already hoped that there would be a gradual opening-up of belarus towards the european union. i now think that a lot of those hopes have gone for the time being. it is very worrying to hear – almost hourly – news of ongoing repression in minsk and other parts of belarus. just yesterday, the harassment of the human rights organisation viasna continued, with house raids, arrests and detentions. this is an organisation which has very courageously been defending human rights in belarus. the authorities have still not allowed it to register. the belarusian helsinki committee received a warning after it contacted the un special rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers. it has good reason to believe that those charged with these serious offences are not going to be given a fair trial. today, we also had news of the former presidential candidate, mr sannikov, his spouse iryna khalip, a journalist and correspondent of the novaya gazeta in minsk, and their child – which was a worldwide sensation. we have heard that the child may be allowed to stay with its grandparents, as the parents are detained. however, i would just warn that this is not good news yet. we still need confirmation, which may arrive next week. so why is this ‘strike hard’ happening in belarus? we really need to insist on an independent international inquiry into what happened, in order to understand all the background and to understand whether provocateurs actually instigated this violence – which has now been declared criminal – and not those who were actually only calling for democracy in belarus. in my view, the most appropriate body to conduct such an investigation would be the osce and, failing that, the united nations. what about new elections? we should be careful about calling for new elections too soon because we need to safeguard the road map towards democratic reforms. we need to guarantee freedom of the press, of association and of assembly. without that, we would not be gaining much, even if belarus held new elections today.
it is good, mr president, that we have here acknowledged in many voices that the so-called dialogue policy of the eu and many member states has failed. as a skilled political player, lukashenko has been able to exploit the partnership programme and enjoy all the political and economic benefits while continuing to undermine democracy and human rights. he has even managed to charm some politicians here, such as my colleague mr rubiks, whose main concern in this situation seems to be whether the opposition can get help from abroad. the sanctions called for in the resolution must be strictly enforced against the political leadership. at the same time, however, we must ensure that we help ordinary citizens who have lost their jobs and their places of study in the hope of democracy. it is indeed the last time for the eu to show its colours and to show that we support the people of belarus in their struggle for democracy and that we want the last dictator in europe to go.
mr president, i would like to commend the report for including a very positive mention about sepa, the single euro payments area. time and again this parliament has demanded a rapid sepa migration, and the reasons are simple. the commission’s impact assessment quotes a study that sepa would save eur 300 billion in the eu economy in six years’ time. these savings are due to increased competition via common standards and processes. this will also save time and stress for all europeans who need to carry out payments in other countries. i also strongly agree with the report when it states that the public economic support to banks and other companies in the economic crisis has distorted competition. like many of my colleagues here this morning i urge the commission to provide an analysis of these distortions. let me add one more thought on the need for common standards and processes. a lot of inventions in the future will be based on information and communication technologies. we need more competition in the ict business, and this could be encouraged by increased use of open-source code in europe. i expect that europe will in this way become more competitive in this crucial field in relation to the us and other major economic areas, as mr hökmark said previously.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, first of all, i would like to thank mr gahler for his constructive cooperation. the best acknowledgement, no doubt, came from commissioner füle when he said that this report would become the third pillar of the european union's arctic policy. it is no wonder that arctic policy is becoming the focus of international politics, because, as the previous speaker said, the arctic region contains one third of the world's undiscovered natural resources: minerals, gas and oil. climate change and competition for these resources are interrelated, but the real engine of development is the global economy. fortunately, the development of the arctic has been cooperative and stable. in the future, arctic policy will be a test of whether we can work together to increase stability or create new conflicts. responsible and prudent management of natural resources is essential if we are to avoid catastrophes such as el dorado and the gulf of mexico. it is important that we have a balanced report and a message that the arctic council should be strengthened and that the european union should be more closely involved as an observer. but it is not a 'framework around the neck' that will get us there, but diplomacy, negotiation and strong political cooperation, and above all, being at the forefront of environmental impact assessment. i think it is very good that the report acknowledges the importance of an arctic information centre and also mentions that the university of lapland in rovaniemi, finland, would be a good location.
for the alde group mr president, i would like to express my warm thanks to rapporteur gahler and to all the shadow rapporteurs. we think that we have had excellent, good cooperation and it is important that the committee's own-initiative report be adopted and that the initiative be taken. the report strongly advocates that in the future a strong investment be made in the living and working conditions, transport and environment of the people of the arctic. i also think it is particularly important to take a stand for the recognition of the status of indigenous peoples, especially the sámi. the sámi are the only indigenous people in the eu and the eu, that is the commission, parliament and council, must work with this indigenous people on an equal footing. the report also recognises the role of the arctic council and commissioner füleck said that the eu was keen to strengthen the arctic council. i was a little disappointed, however, when commissioner füle said that cooperation in the arctic was progressing very slowly. the eu must have the drive, the commitment and the will to develop cooperation in the arctic. it must not be a gradual, one-handed approach, but one area of focus. finally, i am also pleased that the research in the arctic is being promoted and that the report mentions the university of lapland as a possible centre. the university of lapland deserves credit for being the only university, the only body that has really worked to establish such a centre, is dedicated to the cause.
i would like to ask, mr president, how the representative of the gue/ngl group can possibly think of a moratorium of any kind, when none of the actors in the region, the states, want it? how would the indigenous peoples react to the european union coming from above to tell them what to do? parliament has already committed one sin, the banning of seal products, which has angered the indigenous people. why do i have to annoy you any more? what we need now is diplomacy and cooperation.
mr president, this is an important matter and because finland is in the north, i know and feel these things. for once i can agree with my finnish colleagues that lapland and the university of lapland in rovaniemi know how to do these things. i also agree with the position of the indigenous peoples. i will vote in favour of this report, but my main criticism is of the climate change arguments, which are supposed to be agreed on an eu-wide basis. the eu emissions trading scheme has been a complete failure. in 2008, €5 billion in fraud, vat fraud and many other things were revealed. there's been more and more of these. simply put, this type of emissions trading is not working, it is harmful. instead, we need a system of emissions tracking, like the one we have in cars, where we can measure who is emitting and what is emitted, and not have an international trade in buying the rights to pollute. this is important. the arctic is also important, but i am not sure how it will progress, given the recent actions of the eu. the things that the eu is concerned about, they don't necessarily go forward. the danish colleague has spoken very sensibly about the areas that are there. they are sovereign territories and have a sovereign right to decide their own affairs.
mr president, the wealth of the arctic is not only its vast energy resources and new shipping routes, but also its indigenous population. it's not an arctic museum. it's home to three and a half million people. that's why we have to listen to them. no one has the right to rape and plunder that area. in the future, of course, we will see a lot of mining, industry and shipping, which will increase the threat of environmental disasters. we must prepare for them responsibly. rescue operations are demanding and the nature is particularly vulnerable. a recent study by the university of lapland shows that the eu already has a surprisingly large amount of jurisdiction in the arctic. the eu must therefore act more actively and responsibly. it must invest in it economically and concretely. this is also a requirement for iceland's possible future membership. i too believe, mr president, that the university of lapland in rovaniemi is the best place for an arctic information centre.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent and balanced report. the global interest in the nordic regions has grown enormously in recent years and to a whole new level, as has been noted. it is therefore essential that the european union also takes an active role in this matter and also actively seeks to obtain a permanent observer role in the arctic council. as already mentioned, these areas have enormous potential for, among other things, their natural resources. we need bold visions and cooperation, but also financial incentives, so that the people living in the region can make sustainable use of the opportunities offered by their territories. like many of my colleagues, i am very pleased that the report gives a strong emphasis to the arctic information centre and the expertise of the university of lapland, as well as to the excellent capacity that already exists.
i would like to thank mr gahler and the shadow rapporteurs for an excellent and comprehensive report which balances the potential of the northern arctic region, its vast natural resources, raw materials and energy, new transport routes and tourism, with the vulnerability of the fragile arctic nature and the rights of indigenous peoples. we need extremely responsible behaviour and a good arctic strategy in the northern region. i also share the view of my finnish colleagues who were pleased that the initiative of the university of lapland to establish an eu arctic information centre in its context has been taken into account in a very good way in the report. i look forward to the commission's report on arctic policy, which has been promised by commissioner füle.
mr president, this is a historic and good resolution. we must pay attention to religious freedom in europe. it is important that we remember our roots, which are judeo-christian values. the european union's fundamental values and rights are built on this heritage, on these roots. perhaps what happened to the coptic christians in egypt alerted us to the situation. christians need protection all over the world, not only in egypt, but also in turkey, and in assyria. we europeans are also particularly interested in the fact that there are situations within the european union which we should also deal with. people are being persecuted because of their religion. this is partly due to a misguided fear of islam. we have given up our own values and then trampled on christian values at the expense of that. this is not the way to go. we need dialogue and religious freedom. we must take care of our european cultural heritage, that is to say, our judeo-christian values, and defend them courageously. these values are at the heart of our european identity.
i also voted in favour of this resolution, which was at least necessary. i think that the european union must be particularly vigilant in the face of human rights violations in the surrounding areas. i also wish that the problems of young people had been brought more strongly to the fore. in belarus, youth organisations are not allowed to operate freely, but are forced to operate underground. for several years now, young people in europe have been organizing a street event in which the faces of important statues in european capitals are covered with a cloth because they are mute. this is a protest against the lack of freedom of speech in belarus. i hope that the young people of europe will not have to shut up the european parliament and keep us silent, but that we will courageously defend our values and democracy.
i would like to thank mr gahler for this excellent report, which takes very well into account the needs of the northernmost regions of the european union and the need for sustainable development there. as a northern territory resident myself, i was happy to observe the process. i noticed that the report took account of the climate and the economy, such as reindeer herding, which is a very important industry in that area. the rapporteur, mr gahler, also took very good account of the sámi, the only indigenous people in europe. i would like to give a special compliment and thanks to the rapporteur, mr gahler, for taking account of my amendment to establish an arctic information and communication centre at the university of lapland and for mentioning it in the report. it's very important. i am glad that finns across party lines are working together on this. it is a question of the future of the northern dimension of finland and of the whole of northern europe, which we want to develop sustainably.
in writing. - mr president, next week we will be celebrating the day of remembrance for victims of persecution, which naturally links our imagination to the past of auschwitz. it was good that the resolution we adopted brought us to this day, to recognize the martyrs of our time. the starting point is that religious freedom should apply to all religions. the separate mention of persecution suffered by christians is not due to our partiality. this is because this largest group of persecuted people is the most easily forgotten in europe. it is time to correct this error, knowing that more christians died for their faith in the last century than in the preceding 1,900 years combined. 75% of those killed for their faith are christians. open doors international has listed the ten countries where christians face the most violence in the world. at the top of the list are north korea, iran, saudi arabia, somalia, the maldives, afghanistan, yemen, mauritania, laos and uzbekistan, but the list goes on and on. an estimated 100 million christians face violence daily because of their faith. it is clear that the resolution we adopted must be followed by something concrete. the eu's external relations administration must take a firm stand against the shortcomings of religious freedom. we must include in our foreign policy agreements with third countries a clause on religious freedom and reciprocity. freedom of religion is a key issue for the promotion of human rights, as it is the litmus test of human rights: freedom of speech, expression and assembly are at the heart of human rights.
author. − mr president, it was shocking, but sadly not surprising, to receive the news that governor taseer has been murdered. i personally knew benazir bhutto, and minister shahbaz bhatti has become a good friend of mine. what links all three of them is their amazing courage as vocal and visible critics of blasphemy laws and their abuse by extremist groups. the government of pakistan has indeed taken several important steps to improve the rights of minorities, for example by allocating a minimum quota in public jobs. the government has also formed a committee to review all discriminatory laws, including the blasphemy law. however, the work has not yet finished. despite several major steps, so long as there is a legal loophole, such as that in the current blasphemy law, so massive that it enables terrorists and extremists to push their own agenda forward, it is difficult to believe in a true commitment to democracy. i hope that, with this resolution, we can express our continuing solidarity with the government of pakistan in the fight against terrorism and the spread of extremism.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the murder of the governor of punjab, salmaan taseer, is essentially a case of religious intolerance in pakistani society. taseer was one of the few who dared to publicly oppose pakistan's blasphemy law. he had asked the president to pardon asia bib, a christian woman condemned to death for blasphemy, and had also visited her in prison. the fate of a citizen who stands up against injustice is harsh and cruel in today's pakistan. is it the same for asia bib, if she's pardoned, will she be murdered too? the question arises, can a state like pakistan enjoy the trade advantages offered by the european union? the european parliament should make respect for human rights one of the fundamental elements when the eu negotiates a regulation on the granting of unilateral customs preferences in emergency aid to pakistan.
mr president, freedom of religion is one of the fundamental human rights. yet, it is violated almost daily around the world. it's called cruel intolerance. the blasphemy law is a legacy of the military dictatorship that ruled pakistan in the 1980s. it is unacceptable that the law is used to persecute religious minorities and that dozens of people are sentenced to death under the law every year. the eu must act decisively and consistently to ensure that the pakistani authorities repeal this cruel law.
mr president, many people have already said that salmaan taseer was a person who defended women and religious minorities in a weak position in words and deeds, and who fought against injustice in other ways. taseer supported a democratic state and spoke publicly against pakistan's harsh blasphemy laws, saying they were man-made and therefore also changeable by man. in several speeches it has already been pointed out how he vigorously defended a christian woman condemned to death and sought to overturn her sentence. all these acts of justice have brought about the fate of salma taseer. the eu must support those forces in pakistan who are seeking reform, because not everyone in pakistan supports the fundamentalists. the eu must therefore wisely consider in its foreign policy how to respond to the situation in pakistan.
the author. - mr president, respect for the independence of the judiciary and the legality of its decisions is one of the foundations of a democratic state based on the rule of law and of society. every person deserves the right to a fair trial, and the verdict of an independent tribunal must be respected. in this case, the brazilian supreme court has decided to allow the extradition of battisti. in italy, all decisions to request extradition have been taken in accordance with the law. the european court of human rights did not hear the appeal, in other words it did not take it up, so the case is closed. now the brazilian authorities must act to ensure that justice is done and hand over battisti. my group hopes that the foreign affairs council will do its utmost to ensure that the rule of law and the rule of law are upheld.
mr president, i can understand to some extent the frustration of some of my colleagues at the urgency of the resolution on cesare battisti. in late december, following president lula da silva's decision to deny the extradition of battistista, berlusconi announced that he would recall the brazilian ambassador and continue the fight for battista's extradition back to italy. no doubt this is part of the same struggle. but that doesn't diminish the gravity of battisti's crimes. he has been on the run from the italian justice system for three decades, thus avoiding a life sentence for murder for the time being. relations between the eu and brazil are based on trust in the principles of democracy and the rule of law and respect for human rights. the elevation of a criminal to the status of political refugee should not be tolerated.
mr president, nasrin sotoudeh is one of the most prominent human rights lawyers in iran and has defended the nobel peace prize winner shirin ebadia, among others. his clients have also included juvenile death row inmates and victims of domestic violence. his only crime is that he has been practicing his profession, defending defenseless persons against the cruel regime of iran. the post-2009 election unrest and its aftermath have led to the iranian authorities taking strong measures against human rights defenders and activists. the iranian government's goal is to silence all opposition inside and outside iran once and for all. this parliament has made appeals on behalf of the people of ahvaz, among others, and has delivered a unanimous written opinion on the matter. it is strange that the international community can do nothing to remove this entire cruel regime.
in writing. mr president, the situation of human rights defenders in iran is becoming increasingly difficult. we also read of the increasing number of those on death row. the dutch citizen zahra bahrami, who had previously taken part in our urgent resolutions, was sentenced to death and her lawyer nasrin sotoudeh to 11 years in prison for 'endangering national security'. as we know, the iranian judiciary is characterized by a profound lack of justice and transparency. it is therefore important that the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy does not take the country too lightly and continues to raise human rights issues in relations with iran. the minimum demands include the immediate and unconditional release of human rights lawyer sotoudeh and other prisoners of conscience, the reconsideration of bahram's death sentence and the admission of the dutch authorities to the proceedings, the admission of representatives of the red cross to prison visits and the admission of human rights organisations to the country to assess the situation.
mr president, 60 years ago revolution in the arab world meant the end of european colonial rule. the second revolution in the arab world is happening now in front of our eyes. this is the moment when the european union has to choose whether it stands on the right side or on the wrong side of history. the task is to help foster an independent civil society in the arab world. our budget in the eu must be reviewed to address the urgent needs of tunisia, which has suffered from a 23-year-long autocracy. the majority of the tunisian people have no trust in this temporary, unelected government. a truth process in tunisia is already beginning, but the european union needs a truth process itself, so great has its negligence of human rights and democratic values been in the arab world over the years. this is truly the time for human rights.
in writing. mr president, it is good that the eu has reached an agreement with the countries of latin america and the united states in a banana quarrel that has long aroused feelings. it's better to make a deal than to continue to argue in the wto. it has been argued that the agreement and the tariff reductions would favour the major banana producing countries and multinational companies. it is important to note, however, that the poor acp countries will continue to enjoy a higher level of advantage than the latin american countries. the eu also provides a wide range of support to help acp countries diversify their economies so that they are less dependent on banana exports. it remains to be seen whether the agreement now reached will have an impact on consumer prices in europe. the agreement is, however, historic in that it demonstrates the eu's capacity for internal cohesion and decision-making, even in difficult situations and tough negotiations. i vote for the deal that was reached.
mr president, the commission has rightly come up with both a resource efficiency programme and a raw materials strategy, as raw materials and their use are becoming more limited and at the same time their prices are rising. we know that a great deal of electronic waste, and particularly small waste such as mobile phones, has unfortunately ended up in landfills not only within our own territory but also in third countries and, ultimately, in incineration. this important tool is therefore a good step in the right direction for the recycling of electronic waste, so that we can guarantee better resource efficiency and the return of raw materials back to the manufacturers. it is hoped that in the future, in the case of this directive, we can move towards better reporting so that we can really know how well the different member states and operators are implementing the objectives of the directive. it is necessary to guarantee even better separate collection and to set better and more ambitious targets for it. the directive is a good start, but i hope that in future it will be possible to transfer responsibility from the distribution platform directly to the producer.
(the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) it is quite true that there can be no violation of the general rules of trade. it is quite right that the wto has intervened and that we in the european parliament and the european union are also doing the right thing. the special treatment accorded to certain acp countries is therefore abandoned. it is certainly true that it is important to ensure that fair play is maintained in the market, but we must take as a starting point that we treat all producers in the same way. on the other hand, the countries which have been part of the import system since 1993 have each had a huge advantage and have been able to get their affairs in order and develop their own banana production in the meantime, so that they can also compete in a genuine way and not just rely on special aid. i therefore voted in favour of this amendment and i congratulate the commission and the european union on the fact that the banana war has now come to an end.
mr president, the basic question of this implementing directive is: what has been the real impact of the services directive on businesses, consumers, citizens and gdp? i'm particularly interested in how smaller companies have fared. the report itself makes a good reference to smes, their needs and their specific circumstances. however, it does not provide a very thorough analysis of what the services directive has ultimately done to companies of different sizes and in different industries. i'd like to know more about this. among other things, there is no information on how smes have increased their crossborder activities. since smaller companies have in any case received all the obligations of the services directive, it would also be useful to know what benefits the directive has brought, especially to smes.
mr president, i would like to thank all those who have been involved in the compromise, and in particular the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee, mr simpson. although this is a compromise, it is nevertheless a significant step forward from the point of view of the citizens. when we think of delays and lost luggage, it is extremely important for citizens to know that we have made a law to protect their rights. this 250-kilometre limitation is not the best possible and has not succeeded, as many have said here. i believe that this is perhaps the weakest point in the legislation and that it will probably have to be revisited in the future, but on the other hand, a significant improvement in the rights of people with reduced mobility and disabilities is a big step forward. mr president, this is exactly the kind of legislation we need to make from the point of view of the citizens.
in writing. mr president, the legislation to be voted on today on passenger rights in bus transport can be seen as unambitious. but a compromise after a hard turn is better than nothing. it is regrettable that the proposal for a regulation only covers national and crossborder bus routes of at least 250 km. thus, for example, luxembourg, malta and cyprus are excluded from the whole regulation. it is also regrettable that the legislation will not come into force for some years. four years, or possibly even eight years, is a long time to wait at a bus stop for new legislation. mr president, there is certainly something good in the compromise reached. the original council position included only three basic rights for passengers irrespective of distance. i am glad that the final compromise has 12 of them and that special attention is paid to the needs of disabled people and people with reduced mobility. the implementation of the regulation will improve the accessibility of buses for disabled people. at the same time, it puts them on an equal footing with other passengers. when new legislation comes into force, member states must ensure that it is implemented effectively and appropriately. this is in the interests of disabled people and people with reduced mobility, but also of the rest of us who travel by bus.
madam president, i join with colleagues who are saying that we need smart measures to deal with authoritarian regimes which violate human rights. i would like to ask the council and commission representatives here whether they are prepared to take measures against those who violate human rights, in the manner indicated in parliament’s resolution of 16 december 2010, which called for an asset freeze and visa bans on those 60 officials implicated in the case of mr magnitsky, who unfortunately died in prison in russia. would there be one or two courageous foreign ministers – or indeed ms ashton’s representatives – who would take up this initiative, and if it proved to be true that judge viktor danilkin did write the verdict on khodorkovsky and lebedev taking direct orders from the moscow city court, would such a judge be on their list?
mr president, first of all i would say that it is very good and very important that we take care of the rights of citizens. whenever we talk about rights, we must remember that there are obligations and that there are no rights without obligations. there is a lot of good and positive in the report on passenger rights in bus transport. it should also be borne in mind that bus companies vary widely across europe. for example, in finland there are many small family businesses and one may ask whether it is worthwhile to constantly impose new costs and new obligations on these small companies that are struggling to make a profit. i can say that we have already had flexibility in many forms and that the rights of different passengers have been taken into account. there is a clear added value in considering the disabled. it is very important that we also ensure that people with reduced mobility and disabilities can move more easily and that their needs are better taken into account. this is a good thing, but as i said earlier, it is a bit contradictory, because when we talk about rights and obligations, it is also important to ensure that the costs do not become too high for the small companies involved in bus transport.
in writing. mr president, at present all pensions are the responsibility of each member state, but the eu already has a strong role to play in pension policy. in order to achieve the goal of genuinely free movement of people and labour, pension systems must be sufficiently harmonized and a sufficient minimum level must be guaranteed to enable families to move freely. that is why we must move towards a unified system, and the sooner the better. the fact is that the fragmented pension system is actually creating a barrier to free movement within the eu.
mr president, my colleague on the right has argued very strongly that politics only disturbs the economy and that only things disturbing politics are done in this house. does he really think that, for example, the economic control system is just disrupting the economy? (the president asked for a blue card to be shown to rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, mr commissioner, the objectives of the europe 2020 programme are good and ambitious. i would like to focus my speech on the practical elements, the instruments, which will enable us to take these objectives to the grassroots level, where we failed, for example, with regard to the lisbon strategy. first of all, we really need all of europe. we need the territories of europe. we need to be able to identify the success factors and the potential of each area of expertise. we can respond to this largely through cohesion policy. in order to be able to create more jobs, innovation and, specifically, innovation in practice, we need a pan-european cohesion policy to implement these objectives in the regions. we also need research and development policy and funding for this sector, but i think the key issue is cohesion policy.
mr president, it is very important to work at european level towards adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems. we must of course remember that the european union has 27 different member states, where economic conditions are still very different in many respects and the size of pensions is very different. but we must first ensure that pension income is sufficient in the various member states. i am particularly concerned about the pensions of young people working in different countries, in different member states of the european union. how can we ensure that pensions are better transferred from one country to another, not just from one pension fund to another, since there are also major problems in these countries? i'd like to see some flexibility on this. this may require coordination at european level. i know that the pension debate will continue, because i recently read that, for example, the life expectancy of children born in finland in 2010 is 100 years. if you think about it, 30 years of study, 30 years of work, then 40 years of retirement. so we certainly have to rethink systems to deal with this situation in a way that is sustainable for all.
i voted in favour of this motion, but i would like to remind you that pension policy, like social policy, is a national matter and that the decisionmaking power must remain in the national hands. instead, european cooperation is needed to ensure that people who have worked in other eu countries and then possibly return to their former home country receive their pensions from the different countries where they have worked. today it is difficult and it has shortcomings. this is something that the member states of the european union should correct. if there is free movement of labour, pensions must also move from one country to another.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the right to adequate food is a human right, recognised in the 1948 un declaration of human rights. so we must remember that when we talk about the price of food, we are really talking about fundamental human rights. the reform of the european union's agricultural policy is taking place at the same time as the rise in world food prices. to be able to respond to these challenges in a sustainable and human rights-based way, we need a holistic vision and policy. food prices and their development are affected by a number of critical issues in global agriculture, such as climate change, energy policy and the availability and efficiency of natural resources. the european union should be a leader in a new way of thinking about agriculture. we need a food policy which critically assesses the whole food production chain and takes account of its impact on health and the environment. a more natural and resource-efficient food policy needs to be supported and guided by various means, both economic and political. speculation on the price of food should also be limited. the commissioner responsible for the internal market, michel barnier, has proposed new measures to curb commodity speculation in derivatives markets. barnier is on the right track. the high food price fluctuations are damaging farmers, consumers and entire economies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the creation of a sustainable food policy is one of the most important issues facing the european union today.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent and professional work he has done on this report. we have worked well together between the groups and i think the result is very good. the members on the other side of the house have expressed concern that we would be jeopardising the good work that the european investment bank (eib) has done so far. i think that these fears are completely unfounded. in fact, we are now evaluating the half-term mandate we have and we will develop the bank in a better direction. on the one hand, it is good to remember the new and good ideas, of which there are quite a lot and which it is good to take advantage of at this stage, on the other hand, it is good to remember that we will eventually start negotiating the mandate of the eib for the next financial framework, that is to say the one that will come into force in 2014. at that stage we have to assess where we want to take the bank, what new tasks we might be able to give it and how these new tasks should be met by any new financial resources for the bank. this is an important thing to remember. in this context, i would like to make two points. one is the one mentioned by mr göran färm, that is the fact that it looks as if we could agree to increase the resources that the eib can use in north africa, which i think is very good given the political situation. this is precisely why the eib should have an external mandate, that is, to enable us to act in accordance with the objectives of the union. i would also like to emphasize something that alexander graf lambsdorff will certainly also emphasize, namely that the alde group was concerned that we would not be able to use the eib's external mandate to lend money to belarus. this is part of the policy we want to pursue and of the principles we stand for within the european union, which our important instrument, the eib, must also respect in principle. in conclusion, i think we have done a good job with the political groups and the rapporteur has done an excellent job in finding solutions which will make it likely that we will have very broad support for the report when we vote in a little over an hour. i think that is a good premise for negotiating with the council. i hope that the european council is willing to look favourably on the good ideas for change in the european parliament.
mr president, the european investment bank has very good objectives, including poverty reduction, and that the bank's activities must be in line with the eu's external policy objectives. in order to make this a reality, it is essential that the bank's operations are transparent. with this in mind, the greens have tabled amendments nos 6 and 7, which stress that all evaluation documents must be public and also all documents relating to different projects must be accessible to the public. i would point out that, since the treaty of lisbon, the european investment bank, like all other eu agencies, is subject to the regulation on public access to documents.
mr president, the resolution is a good one and it is in favour of democratic and peaceful forces for change. but perhaps it is worth remembering and acknowledging that for 30 years the eu and the west have supported mubarak. stability has been important to the eu, that is to say balance and access to oil and also the fact that money has been made from the arms trade. the eu must now find ways, including financial ways, to better support civil society actors in egypt and other non-democratic countries in africa and the arab region. i find it regrettable that this resolution did not mention the eu's arms trade with egypt and other non-democratic countries. the arms trade must be in line with international human rights and humanitarian conventions.
mr president, this is a matter of the utmost importance. there are a billion people in the world right now who are hungry. the eu has set itself the goal of eradicating hunger and poverty, but in reality it has done the opposite. i voted in favour of this resolution and would like to see the eu high representative, mrs ashton, make food security, in all its aspects, one of the priorities of the eu's external policy. of course, parliament and the eu as a whole should also support ashton in this. it is important that people have food, that people have the opportunity to buy food, and here in the eu we are of course also discussing the need to put an end to food scandals.
mr president, this situation is a further reminder for the european union of the importance of mediation and conflict prevention. to use its soft power to the fullest extent, the eu needs to invest more in conflict prevention. it is high time that the vice-president/high representative catherine ashton came up with an initiative to build up a credible mediation and conflict prevention capacity. this requires policy coherence, standing as a good reminder for the eu member states.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the death penalty is still in use in 58 countries and one of these countries is yemen. my group condemns the death penalty in general and the planned execution of muhammed taher thabet samoum in particular. we want to remind the yemeni government of its international commitments regarding the convention on the rights of the child and the international covenant on civil and political rights. both conventions prohibit the executions of people under the age of 18. on monday, amnesty international reported on the actions of yemeni security forces. according to amnesty, the security forces beat protestors with sticks and shocked them with electric batons during peaceful protests in sana’a. my group condemns these violent actions and urges the yemeni government to cease all violence against its own people.
mr president, the situation in samoum is not unique to yemen, and it is estimated that at present there are at least eight other juvenile offenders in prison awaiting execution. this is particularly challenging in a country that lacks birth records, so it is not possible to determine with certainty whether a person was a minor at the time the crime was committed. however, it is important to remember that the state of yemen is a party to the convention on the rights of the child and also to the international covenant on civil and political rights, both of which expressly prohibit the death penalty for juvenile offenders and harsh sentences for juvenile offenders in general. the execution of juvenile offenders is also prohibited by yemen's own criminal code. unlike the previous speaker, i would like to emphasize that the death penalty is always cruel, inhuman and degrading. that is why the eu is fighting against the death penalty in all circumstances, and we are also calling for it in this chamber.
in writing. mr president, we have often referred to the death penalty in our resolutions. the death penalty for minors is rare, but yemen is one of the countries where it has been carried out. although yemen has made progress in its efforts to outlaw the death penalty for minors, the courts have continued to impose it. the case of muhammed taher thabet samoum is not unique. in general, in the context of intercultural dialogue, it is also useful to consider what radicalises young people into crime, even murder, and how best to prevent them from becoming criminals. death sentences are not known to reduce crime. the pro-democracy protests in tunisia and egypt have received widespread support from local youth. the lack of visibility and opportunities, along with the desire for democracy, has led to resistance. this wave of resistance has spread to yemen in the past week. i join my colleagues in their concerns and demands regarding samoum and the other condemned. while we are now waiting with interest and hope for the political changes that the protests in the arab countries will bring, we must not for one moment close our eyes to these great abuses, such as the death sentences of minors, which violate international human rights conventions.
mr president, hatred and human rights violations against sexual minorities continue worldwide. the recent news of the killing of david kato in uganda is yet another sad example of the discrimination and brutality that sexual minorities are facing. the killing of mr kato has to be investigated thoroughly, and the person or persons responsible have to be brought to justice. it has been reported that certain sources, including the rolling stone tabloid, had publicly called for the killing of mr kato. these allegations need to be investigated. i must say that i was appalled by the comments of the ugandan minister for ethics and integrity, who announced that homosexuals can forget about human rights.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you to the rapporteur for having succeeded in producing a report which also provokes debate. i think it is important to remind ourselves that the european commission has actually promised to come forward by the summer with a number of ambitious proposals for new so-called own resources, what we usually call own resources. it is quite clear that the very taxes we have just discussed will be included. perhaps that is why i think that the so-called ini reports, in which we ourselves take the initiative, can be somewhat difficult, since we first call for a serious debate with studies on the possible consequences of various taxes and other things and then we still tend to anticipate this serious debate in this house by saying what we want regardless of what the commission is preparing. i think my colleague diogo feio was on the right track here, because it is often a matter of approaching these treasures from an ideological point of view. we are now talking, for example, about taxation of the financial sector. it's a very complex whole. the argument is rarely about the technical details involved, but rather about the principle of wanting such a tax. in this context, we can also discuss how innovative we are. for ideological reasons, these taxes have been wanted for 30 years or more, so it is not very innovative to ask for them. however, i can understand that some might feel that they are needed. i myself have thought it important that we introduce taxation of the financial sector and that we do so on a global scale. someone here asked what that means. this does not mean that we have to wait for the last dictator to be sitting in a corner of our earth, but rather that something could be done at the g20 level. that is also the ambition of the french, who are heading the g20 this year. but now we do not have the patience to remember that we will receive serious proposals from the commission for the summer. i think we can then move forward without making this issue ideological, because it is also pragmatic. we must also remember that these taxes must also work in practice.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. i would have liked to see more emphasis in this report on the financing of international climate action, although i am also a strong supporter of a transaction tax. as regards climate finance, a working group set up by the un secretary-general last year proposed a carbon tax on international shipping emissions as one of the options. this is a matter which must be taken seriously in the eu. in the context of the 2008 climate package, we decided that if the international maritime organisation (imo) had not established an international system to curb emissions from shipping by the end of this year, the eu would take its own action, similar to that taken in the case of aviation. a carbon tax on shipping to and from the eu would also be an internationally significant measure, accounting for one third of all international shipping traffic and providing a stable source of funding for developing countries for their climate action.
mr president, in the wake of the financial crisis, it is therefore appropriate to consider fair sources of revenue for growth and prosperity. there are both encouraging and problematic points in this report. the report contains a problematic proposal for a single eu bond, or eurobond, which i strongly oppose. eurobonds cloud the responsibility of member states for their own economies and reserve these increased interest rates for those member states which have done well. they contain what is called moral hazard. i am in favour of this so-called stock exchange tax, or transaction tax, which should be the subject of an impact assessment by the commission as soon as possible. i would ask the commissioner who is here: when will this impact assessment be available? it is also good that this report has paid very much attention to financing development cooperation, because the human consequences of the financial crisis are threatening to fall on those who are certainly least to blame for this situation, namely the people of the developing countries. the world's poorest people are suffering as a number of developing countries cut development aid and even disaster relief. the report also rightly points out the importance of developing countries' own action in addition to development cooperation. developing countries must step up their own taxation and tax collection efforts and fight tax evasion. the eu, for its part, must step up the coordination of its current fragmented development aid and the fight against tax havens.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank the commissioner for her introduction. i am one of those who had the privilege of visiting mauritania at the end of last year to evaluate the functioning of the current agreement. it must be said that the agreement and its implementation leave a lot to be desired. above all, our understanding of where taxpayers' money is going is anything but good. we should remember that we are contributing approximately eur 75 million to this agreement every year, which means that a quarter of the mauritanian state budget is financed by our fisheries community funds. in that sense, this is a rather significant agreement, both for us and for the country in question. we should also remember that the european commission itself suggested as recently as 2007 that this agreement should be closed down because it did not bring the desired added value for europe that an agreement should bring. clearly, the winds are blowing differently and there may be a demand for a deal of this kind. but if so, we should start thinking about how this money is used and what added value we get. it should be remembered that part of this agreement also stipulates that the money should be used to promote local fisheries. we must say that the experience of our trip shows that the local fishermen have not seen much of the approximately 18 million euros that should be pumped into the local fisheries annually from the money we spend down there. in that sense too, a renewed agreement requires quite a lot of evaluation and renewal. finally, as has been said here, we in the european parliament now have a responsibility for these matters because we are to give our consent to all these agreements. it also obliges us as decision-makers to take a look at these issues. with the information we have at present, it is a little difficult to take a positive view of renewing such an agreement, so we have a lot to do with the commission in view of the future.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cadecia, for this excellent initiative on the atlantic strategy. it is clear that we will also need this atlantic strategy in the future. as we have heard in previous speeches, it creates a very important demarcated area for the european union, covering issues such as fisheries, transport and energy. i believe that it is precisely through the macro-regions and macro-regional strategies that we can also fight for these issues and cooperate within the union. the european union has supported this regional cooperation with both the member states and third countries bordering on the union since the 1990s, in particular as part of the union's cohesion policy and as part of its external policy. these macro-regional strategies themselves were launched during the swedish presidency and i hope that they will also bring added value in the future in the field of interstate and interregional cooperation. as mentioned, these macro-regional strategies have a lot to offer, particularly in the transport, business and energy sectors. as this motion for a resolution states, it is important that we continue to follow the same approach as before in this atlantic strategy, that is to say, we make use of the structures and the funding that already exist. there is no need to create new structures for this macro-regional strategy either. this preparation must take account of all regions and all actors, so that we can create real synergy for this atlantic region.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for a very balanced and good report. everyone here is talking about thrift, and that's a great thing. we need budgetary discipline and efficiency and we should stick to what is our main task and not extend things beyond our actual task, the legislative work. most people say we must be thrifty, but they tell us what we must not be thrifty about. i think we should talk about some concrete measures that we can take to save money. we can save money if we stop commuting between three jobs. we know how politically difficult it is to get this through. i would now like to make one point, mr president, and that is the security that my friend elles also mentioned here. we've had a bank robbery, a canteen robbery and a mail robbery in the last year. they haven't even caught anyone. this security thing is a joke, as usual. we have one obvious flaw, which is that the apes go straight in from a place that doesn't have a gate. we should be able to get an electronic signature. now we have lists and we have an office with many people working there, taking names and entering them into the computer. it's a ridiculous expense, which means we'd have savings, we'd have better, more credible security. it just has to be done, but the mps say no no no, i'm not going to agree to it being an electronic signature. even if it means making real savings and improving safety. i don't understand how this can work in the us congress, where everyone agrees to this, but here somehow these things are not done. i hope that we will now really concentrate on where we can actually get savings.
mr president, i should like to thank mr bloem for his views, because they are quite common. otherwise, the matter would have gone a long way. it's just that there's a lot of people who are quiet. i would like to ask you, mr bloom, do you think that children are only women's children, and fathers have no responsibility, no need to take paternity leave and no need to provide for their families in any other way than by working? (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on this women's day it is good to look at how equality is actually being achieved in europe. we have a new, common concern, and that is the feminization of poverty. although women work more than men, men are paid more and receive a higher pension. it's wrong for men to get richer and women to get poorer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. ageing and aging, especially aging and aging of women, should not be a burden. it should not be seen as a burden but as a wealth and resource for society and europe. ladies and gentlemen, the future of the world and of europe will continue to depend above all on women, and especially on mothers. of course, it's good that the sons and husbands of mothers, mr. bloom and myself, have something meaningful to do besides fighting. i'm very happy for you. (applause) i would like to thank the
in writing. mr president, it is certainly appropriate that gender equality is discussed on this women's day, but it is not enough. we must also take this into account on all other days when we make decisions. equal treatment also includes the inalienable right of every person to his or her own body. this includes the right to unimpeded contraception, abortion and good sexual health. all these issues have been and will probably be on the agenda for a long time in the votes of this house. unfortunately, the controversy often reflects attitudes that perpetuate the subjugation of women.
mr president, i am in favour of the introduction of a global transaction fee. the commission should carry out an impact assessment as soon as possible on whether such a payment could be initiated at european level as a first step, and after this examination decisions should be taken at eu level. in london, the excess stock exchange tax is collecting 7 billion in annual tax revenue. it is not quite the same as the transaction fee under discussion here, but the results and the impact from london are encouraging, so the commission should make an impact assessment quickly and then make decisions at eu level.
mr president, it is quite true that health disparities vary quite a lot within the european union. the member states are very different, the practices and traditions are very different. it is clear that looking ahead and wanting to narrow this gap between health services at the level of the european union, we need more education, education and awareness of what affects health. of course, the socioeconomic position is very strongly emphasised in this report, but i myself believe that focusing on the very basics, access to health services, exercise, diet, these kinds of things are important and must be underlined and emphasised when we look ahead and want to build a better and healthier europe. i think we need to exchange best practices. i myself abstained on this report because i thought that a lot of things had been included in the report that were not in the report. i hope that the focus can be on reducing health disparities in general in the european union.
i would also like to say a few words, mr president, about this papastamkos report, which is quite thorough and can be said to give a good and comprehensive picture of the way in which the european union's agricultural policy and trade policy are interlinked and of the way in which agricultural policy is used as a tool for policy-making in the eu. it is true, of course, that when we look at our budgets, agriculture is a significant part of it. that is why agriculture always comes up when we talk about european union policy. it is good to remember that, while we also import a lot of food from all over the european union, especially from third countries, these principles of ethical standards should be upheld. cleanliness is a very important issue here. it is also important to remember that we have to take care of our own agricultural production, in different parts of the continent, including in remote countries, including finland, where there is a very high level of expertise and clean products and so on. when we talk about agricultural policy and when we invest in it in the future, we must adhere to these high ethical principles.
i think it is very important, mr president, that the european parliament should speak about equality between men and women. not just today, when we celebrate the anniversary, but we should always talk about it. it is true that it is important to remember that we were created as male and female. it is a richness, but it does not mean that being male or female is somehow inferior or weaker, but that we are also created equal. it is therefore very important to ensure that by the 2010s at the latest we can have a europe of equality, which would mean that men and women would also be treated equally in the labour market. the situation today is that women have been continually disadvantaged in terms of pay and so on, and this should not be the case in civilized europe, but we must ensure that equality can be achieved in the true sense of the word. as for quotas, they will be needed until we adopt the idea that everyone is equal and then qualifications in the labour market will be the final determinant.
mr president, i voted for the report and i voted for the quotas. i would like to thank commissioner reding for having put forward, i should say, a threat that he will take action if there are not more women in publicly traded companies in a year's time. in fact, in this work, the commissioner is merely implementing the european union's treaties and directives, which speak of equality between men and women. i know that quotas arouse conflicting feelings and that's not a proper democracy, but neither is this the situation we're in now. in finland, municipal quotas were introduced 10-15 years ago. they were opposed and considered to be degrading to women and that there were not enough women in these places. these women have been found and practice has shown that, at least in finland, this quota works very well at municipal level.
in writing. - mr president, the reduction of health disparities has not received sufficient attention in europe. this is a problem that must be solved. the reasons for the health disparities between the populations are manifold. these include living conditions, education, occupation, disease prevention and health services. it is good to see that there is a growing awareness of the connection between social problems and health problems. these problems must be solved in a comprehensive way. mr president, the factors that cause health disparities can be addressed by social policy. for example, alcohol consumption can be addressed through national policies (such as price and tax policies), regional policies (by strengthening controls) and local action policies (for example, by developing leisure activities for young people). at european level, there is a need to exchange information on best health practices between member states. it is important that the reduction of health disparities is emphasised at all levels of decision-making. in particular, the reduction of health disparities requires long-term cooperation between all actors.
the committee on culture and education has drawn up an opinion. - mr president, it is rather difficult to put things right in one minute, but a few thoughts from the point of view of the committee on culture and education on this issue of roma, where mr járóka has done a very good job. when i was asked to be a rapporteur on the committee on culture and education, we all agreed very strongly that this was a human rights issue. we have 10-12 million roma. they are full members of the european union. they must also have sovereign rights, human rights in the full sense of the word. it also means that they can participate in the decision-making of societies, in european decision-making. and as we look to the future, we know that education is the key issue. the right way to integrate the roma minority into society and activities is through education. conditions need to be quickly remedied, such as housing and infrastructure. and above all, it is important to emphasize the need for a change of attitude on the part of the rest of us europeans. segregation and discrimination, we have to get rid of that. we must really create full opportunities and understand that every roma child and young person is a unique individual, a unique citizen of the european union, just like the rest of us.
mr president, commissioners, i would first like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr járóka, and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent report which provides parliament with a strong guide for building a common eu roma strategy. the commission must prepare a strategy on this basis to complement and support the member states' own actions, since the member states have and will continue to have primary responsibility for their own citizens. the future strategy must be based on a comprehensive and concrete approach and on cooperation between the member states of the commission, and in particular roma organisations. my own country, finland, has been prepared to offer its own national roma strategy for shared use. it is also essential that roma should be able to participate and have a real influence on the design of measures to improve their situation. they must not be the targets of a top-down policy. the short-term, project-based improvement of the socioeconomic status of roma also does not produce structural social changes, which is why the implementation of roma policy must be strongly linked to national development in different areas of life. similarly, the different eu funding systems must be closely linked to peer review procedures. i would also like to leave the commission with the idea that the monitoring of roma policy should also be subject to a permanent monitoring system. we should develop a monitoring system for the member states' handling of roma affairs, which would have a permanent structure.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent and very important report. it is a question of how we can create competitiveness in european industrial policy and, on the other hand, how we can respond to the structural change that the loss of jobs in the basic industries has created in certain regions. i believe that industrial policy is part of the change. we need to see this change and we also need to be able to adapt to it. we must look ahead in industrial policy and create a sustainable industrial policy based on our own european strengths and regional resources. the bioenergy cluster, for example, is one example of this, and i believe that we have a great deal of potential in europe. regional structures can support a sustainable industrial policy in europe, and therefore there is a need to put more emphasis on innovative clusters and large-scale cooperation between different actors, educational institutions and businesses. it is of course very important to take account of the sme sector, of smes, when we talk about european industrial policy. as far as smes are concerned, we must be able to reduce bureaucracy, as has been said here on many occasions, and to support in every way the possibilities for smes to enter the future.
it is quite true, mr president, that turkey has made progress in recent years, but when we look at the copenhagen criteria for membership of the european union, turkey is still quite far away. perhaps it can be said that turkey will not join the european union in our lifetime. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. mr president, it is also very important to take account of the situation in cyprus. if turkey occupies half of the european union member state of cyprus, then we must be firm on that too. we cannot accept this kind of two-card game, two agendas, that turkey is currently playing. in this respect we must encourage them to develop democracy, but we must be very clear and make sure that the european union does not compromise its own values.
i voted for the járóka report, but i would like to clarify my position. the romani issue is paradoxical for europe in many ways. it challenges the fundamental values and ideals of the european union in practice, but on the other hand it is born of one fundamental right, the freedom of movement, which is the traditional way of life of one people. there are also roma in finland, where the problem is precisely the low level of education and the resulting unemployment. that is why we must invest specifically in education. soft justice is no longer enough, nor is soft action. we need uniform legislation, all the practical measures that are binding. all member states and all eu institutions are responsible for this. president, may i say, a happy lent to you all!
mr president, thank you, this report by mrs lívia járóka is a very good report. i think that everyone in this house shares the understanding that it is indeed time to start working at european union level to ensure that everyone has equal human rights. unfortunately, they have not been fulfilled in the case of the roma. it is not enough to have a good report, action is also needed. the essential question is how to proceed from here so that this report does not remain a mere wishful thinking or a difference of opinion but also begins to work in practice, so that we can see a significant improvement in the position of the roma in the european union. it is also very important to follow up this report. perhaps we need an eu-level commissioner for roma affairs to report and monitor that these measures, which we have decided to take, also work in practice and thus put this matter in order.
in writing. - mr president, turkey has been seeking eu membership since the 1960s, but now the accession negotiations have virtually come to a standstill. turkey must look in the mirror: it has not implemented the ankara protocol and has not recognised cyprus. in addition, the country must undergo a number of civil and human rights reforms before it can join the union (including religious freedom and women's rights). these are the facts. but you have to look in the mirror, too. there is a strong anti-turkish sentiment in the eu, based on prejudice and fear of differences. the big member states - germany and france - fear a big and powerful turkey. the situation in north africa has once again demonstrated that turkey is a skilled foreign policy actor. in fact, turkey is more skilled than the eu or individual eu member states. since the 1990s, turkey has been building good neighbourly relations and regional stability in the region bordering europe, the south caucasus, central asia and the middle east. the young people of north africa, the young people of north africa who are reformists, are looking to turkey. turkey is a strong economic player. unlike the european economy, the turkish economy is dynamic and growing despite the economic crisis and recession that europe and the rest of the world have faced. you can't just ignore this.
mr president, mr ashton, this report is particularly welcome, because the european union must have a clear and coherent strategy in relation to a state like iran. in 2008 and 2009 alone, over a period of 18 months, parliament has taken a position on the legal protection of 36 iranian individuals in relation to individual human rights violations. this is more than any other country. and each one of them deserves to be mentioned and remembered here today. human rights in iran must not be subordinated to trade and customs privileges. it is morally wrong and a disgrace to the eu. the european union and the european parliament should therefore continue to monitor closely the development of the human rights situation in iran.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, with decisive and timely action towards libya, the eu and the human rights council have indeed shown that they can take action when needed. they can indeed. they can show that different regional groups can come together and they can show that the council does not need to be divided. today there is no longer a reason why action on iran, north korea, the democratic republic of congo, burma and sudan could not be next in line. this time is significant for another reason. a first comprehensive review of the working methods of the council has come to a conclusion and, like my colleagues, i feel disappointed by the fact that the council failed to appreciate the importance of the review. the eu prepared itself well but failed to win the support of others. but at least the independence of the human rights commissioner and of the special procedure was not damaged, so this is already an achievement under the present conditions. in any future discussions of the council’s work, the european union must be able to build alliances and to reach across to other partners. it must also be willing to listen and able to compromise. i think we had a very welcome participation by the high representative in the meeting some weeks ago. high representative, i salute you for taking this step and giving a very impressive presentation there. so to my last point: the eu’s performance. after the creation of the human rights and democracy directorate at the european external action service, the eu delegation in geneva will have a central role to play in eu human rights policy in the world. it needs increased resources and its work must be integrated into all fields of eu foreign policy. i am very honoured to be leading parliament’s delegation to the human rights council’s 16th session at this critical time next week.
i would like to thank mr mitchell for his speech, because the first human right is the right of every girl and boy to be born into this world. the human rights council is the principal un body responsible for human rights, whose position and procedures must now at last be challenged to a critical evaluation. at its best, the council could play a decisive role in promoting human rights and democracy. unfortunately, the council's work has been marked by double standards, selectivity and politicization, and deadlock on human rights issues. it is illustrative that the council came very close to adopting the resolution on the progress made in libya, that is to say, the progress made, in the human rights situation. countries that recognized libya included iran, north korea, egypt, sudan, and pakistan. do the statements of these countries have any weight? shouldn't these countries be the next to quit the human rights council? the very fact that such a resolution was even considered shows how ignorant the international community has been, or wanted to be, of the situation in libya. in contrast, the human rights council has issued about two thirds of its resolutions condemning israel, the only democracy in the middle east, in recent decades. at the same time, the human rights council has ignored the weak position of women's and minority rights in all the surrounding arab countries. the work of the human rights council itself will lack credibility unless it changes its own work and its own way of working.
mr president, the growing european trend at the moment is right-wing populism, with anti-euism at its core. where does this anti-eu sentiment come from? it is the result of the social europe being replaced by a market europe. all the commission's proposals today are either an attack on the wage or pension system. we'll see if the pay flexibility will help. there is no help, on the contrary, the result is deflation. it is very important, mr president, that all legislation be accompanied by a permanent social clause, so that the idea of a social europe can be revived. it is important to note that the pension age increases if working life is improved, but it cannot be raised from above by legislation.
mr president, what has been said here can be signed. disasters have only increased. the eu could do a great deal in these areas: exchange of information, support and solidarity. this will of course add the added value that is expected of the union in these matters. however, i would like to take this opportunity to ask the commissioner about the huge forest fire in russia three or four years ago, which caused huge smoke damage in finland, my own country. many people suffer from the very bad health effects that this smoke caused. the european parliament decided then to require the commission to negotiate an agreement with russia on how the eu could come to its aid in these cases and provide the necessary assistance which russia would have needed but refused to accept. i would like to know whether the commission has already made any progress in this matter and taken any action. disasters do not just stay within the eu, they also occur outside our borders and often affect eu member states. i'd like to know how things are going with russia.
mr president, we are all aware of the terrible news that was generated when the ash cloud came. many people were unable to attend the funerals of loved ones, the weddings of their children, or similar occasions. they were very personal and very sad events, not to mention the economic situation that was created by the suffering of 10 million people. as you can see, nothing really worked. we could not say that the eu had a solution to these situations, and here the chairman of the committee on transport made the very good point that this risk was not taken into account, it was not managed and it was more of a big mess. the commission must now give the citizens answers as quickly as possible. the question is, do we have the technical solutions, will the airlines find them? if there are, what might they be? what are the rights of passengers in the future if a similar situation arises where people cannot fly or get home? when will we have an efficient european single sky? the answer to this, of course, is that we want it as soon as possible, that it cannot take much longer. what's the alternative plan? what are the means of transport used? now the people were lost. others ordered taxis from spain to finland and paid thousands of euros. this cannot be the future, but there must be some kind of plan for how to better serve people in these alternatives. i would like to mention the other situation mentioned here, the second natural disaster: when it snows. last december, tens of thousands of people were stranded at european airports when a snowstorm struck. in my own country, finland, there is constantly a huge amount of snow, it is freezing hard and things are working. so we must make european airports work too. this is not too difficult and there is no point in raising our hands, but we must do things in such a way that the citizens are guaranteed legal certainty.
chair of the subcommittee on human rights. – mr president, i have some very good human rights news. sakharov prize candidate haitham al-maleh, an 80-year old syrian human rights lawyer, was pardoned and released two days ago. this is a wonderful example of how the european parliament can strengthen human rights. now that he is free again, haitham al-maleh is full of vigour in his aim to help release the thousands of political prisoners in syria. (loud applause)
mr president, i am sure that all those in this house who subscribe to the principles of the european union agree that freedom of the media is a very important matter. of course, with this freedom comes responsibility. but i had to vote against this motion. the information i have received on this subject and which has been examined here shows that the commission made demands to hungary and hungary responded to them and amended its media law in this respect, and i think that should have been sufficient. in this respect, i think that we should not make this a political issue, as if it were left versus right or something like that, but that there should be the same standards for everyone. if the commission accepted this amendment by hungary, then i accept it too. i think that is the starting point here and that is why i voted against this report or idea of my own group, unfortunately, because i think that what has been done in hungary has been exactly in line with the commission's requirements.
mr president, the libyan people must have the primary right to decide the future of their own country. when the idea of true democracy and freedom comes from the people, it cannot be imposed from outside. the extraordinary summit of the european council tomorrow should agree on the eu's role in the region. the eu must support the democratic wave in the arab world by all means possible. we must not waste time, we must move from words to deeds. the eu must be consistent in its policies and bear its responsibilities in the region, also in the long term. if the attacks on civilians continue, as they seem to be, the eu should negotiate a un mandate and take action to establish a no-fly zone over libya to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe. the possibility of military intervention must also be preserved in this situation.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution, although i think it has certain concerns. first of all, i would like to point out that my group met with representatives of the libyan resistance this week and these representatives said that they do not want western armed intervention. this came as a clear wish. i do not think that the eu should be the one to raise the flag in this matter, but that it should act in conjunction with the un and the arab countries. nevertheless, this resolution refers to humanitarian intervention, which unfortunately often means armed intervention. parliament expressly supports intervention, albeit in the most elegant terms. my second concern is this no-fly zone, which i fear will lead to the bombing of libya. i think we need to have a un-led action and the whole arab world, africa and the eu together.
i would like to say, mr president, that it is very important that we in the european union defend human rights to the end. unfortunately, this human rights resolution was not balanced. reading this, and particularly paragraph 19, which i voted against, it seems that there is too much attack on one nation, israel, and too much blame being laid on it. although we all know the situation in the middle east at the moment. there are uprisings in countries where thousands of innocent people have lost their lives. in this respect, this was to be a resolution on human rights, not the middle east. if we wanted to find some balance here, when we are trying to blame israel unilaterally, we could have mentioned that gilad shalit, an israeli soldier, has been held captive for 1720 days by palestinian arabs or hamas, without any human rights. in this respect, when we make these declarations of human rights, we must strive for a balanced and fair approach. it is the only way to ensure that these can be carried forward in a sustainable manner and that we can maintain our credibility as a watchdog of human rights in europe and beyond.
the author. - mr president, shahbaz bhatti and his whole life is an astonishing example of what a man of courage and integrity can achieve. he had been in office for only six months when the pakistani parliament passed a landmark reform guaranteeing a five percent quota in public office for the country's minorities. it was just one of the many democratic reforms that bhatti has driven, and one of which the pakistani government should be very proud. most significantly, he initiated the interfaith harmony dialogue at the local level, which sought to ease tensions and to repair the soil from which terrorism arises. i saw the elements of the peace prize in the idea and i hope that the work for human rights and democracy in pakistan will not stop, even though the extremists won a temporary victory by removing the most strategic human rights activist in the country. if dialogue is successful in a country that is the centre of radical islam, the positive effects will radiate throughout the world. it was only about a month ago that i met bhatt. we were discussing the possibility of his death. he wasn't naive. he understood what courage can lead to. "i will die sooner or later", he said, "but in the meantime i will try to correct unjust legislation as much as i can". i die, but the law remains, and it affects the lives of millions. (applause) i would like to thank the
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the murder of mr bhatti is the second murder of a high-profile pakistani official in two months. the murders of both mr bhatti and governor salman taseer must be investigated thoroughly and the perpetrators have to be brought to justice. apart from mr bhatti’s murder, i would like to take up another burning human rights issue in pakistan, namely the situation of the province of balochistan. the baloch minority continues to be persecuted and, according to amnesty international, at least 90 baloch activists – teachers, journalists and lawyers – have disappeared or have been murdered. other people, such as aid workers, teachers, journalists and government officials have also been subject to persecution and threats. the european parliament and the eu need to send a clear message to pakistan and urge the pakistani government to do its best to avoid this kind of situation.
mr president, the last dictator of europe, lukashenko, has ruled belarus with a heavy hand for over 16 years. the country's media and judiciary are under his sovereign control, and he is not afraid to use them to crush political opposition, as he has done now after the fraudulent presidential elections in december. the special forces and police then violently dispersed the demonstrations and arrested hundreds, including almost all the opposition presidential candidates. the eu's demands for the release of political prisoners and an end to violence against citizens have been completely ignored by the lukashenka administration. the eu must now impose stronger economic sanctions, as lukashenko has only exploited the eastern partnership programme and all the benefits of the neighbourhood policy. we cannot accept such brutal violations of human rights anywhere in the world, least of all in the countries at the heart of europe.
mr president, we really do not need to go beyond the borders of europe to find states that violate fundamental rights. in belarus, one can be criminally charged and imprisoned for simply participating in a demonstration, running for office, or expressing one's opinion. the political awareness and civic activism of citizens is not a burden on society, but should be a wealth. however, it is difficult to believe that democracy can be strengthened in belarus only through eu coercion, and that grassroots dialogue and involvement of civil society is also needed. the eu should support belarus' democratic development and continue its cultural and educational projects with it. the european external action service should actively monitor developments in belarus and support the belarusians in integrating european values there too. (applause) i would like to thank the
the author. - mr president, the events of recent months in belarus clearly reveal the continued systematic violation of civil and political rights by the government. the annual arrests of opposition supporters show that the opponents of lukashenko are being silenced by brutal means. the imprisonment of ales mihalevich and six other opposition presidential candidates on the baseless pretext of inciting violent demonstrations is a violation of political rights. the detention of journalist natalia radina for more than a month is also further reducing the possibilities for free expression in belarus. allegations by mihalevich, radina and others of inhumane treatment and torture of political prisoners in kgp prisons must be taken seriously and investigated impartially. i would like to remind belarus of its international obligations under the un convention on civil and political rights and the un convention against torture, and of the responsibilities that these obligations impose on the international community and, in particular, on the citizens of belarus.
mr president, the resolution is about safeguarding a very important cultural heritage and the right of minorities to a cultural identity. the old city of kashgar is one of the best-preserved islamic cities in central asia. kashgar's rich history dates back to the han dynasty in china, and the city was an important stage on the silk road, linking asia and europe. the whole region of xinjiang has a huge cultural significance on a global scale. china should also take action to include kashgar in the unesco world heritage list and preserve the area for future generations. the european external action service should therefore integrate the right to cultural identity into local strategies. the eu mission to china could also allocate funds to support the traditions and cultural identity of kashgar's minorities.
mr president, the fundamental rights of ethnic minorities are not respected in china, whether they are tibetans or uighurs. the chinese communist party refuses to support the city of kashgar in its bid to compete for unesco world heritage status. in recent years, china has supported an international effort to add silk road cultural sites to the world heritage list, but kashgar has been excluded from the chinese list in this regard because it is home to one of china's largest minorities, the uyghurs. on the contrary, china has planned to demolish large parts of the city of kashgar, and china has justified this project with the safety of the residents, but cultural, civil and human rights organizations consider this plan a cruel crushing of uyghur cultures. gradually the chinese communist party must recognize the fact that chinese citizens are culturally diverse and must also have the right to cultural self-determination.
mr president, because of its remote location on the western border of china, kashgar and the uighurs who live there have managed to preserve their centuries-old traditions. the city therefore attracts hundreds of thousands of tourists a year. due to the city's strategic location, the chinese government is now seeking to control the area more effectively to secure better access to the central asian energy market. china has a right to economic development, but the basic rights of minority groups must be protected. kashgar can be developed in such a way that the uyghur way of life can still be guaranteed. the earthquake-resistant quality of houses and infrastructure can be improved without plans to demolish 85% of the old city and forcibly relocate the uighurs to new neighborhoods, disrupting their society. the reckless destruction of the old city must therefore be stopped and the uyghurs must be consulted on the development of their traditional area. otherwise, the uighurs' exotic and fascinating culture is in danger of being completely destroyed.
mr president, the creation of a permanent crisis management mechanism for europe is justified in the event of possible future crises. none of us want another crisis, but it can happen. however, it is regrettable that a permanent crisis management mechanism is being planned to be set up outside the eu institutions. the mechanism should be brought as close as possible to the eu institutions to enable them to monitor its use, and any sanctions should also be automatic rather than through discussions and negotiations. a few words about the so-called eu foreign policy and libya: the situation in libya and the international community is confusing. it was justified to take a no-fly zone decision to protect civilians. the eu has also been involved. now that the ground forces have been attacked, i think it is worth asking whether this no-fly zone was set up for that purpose. we're this close to crossing the threshold of war.
i have no opportunity to be in the portuguese parliament to ask this, so i will ask you directly: why does the portuguese epp group not support this proposal, which is very important? the whole euro area and the european union could be thrown into crisis if decisions are delayed. why do you not support these proposed solutions? i mean right here, right now!
mr president, the bad news today was that the portuguese conservatives are rejecting this package in the hope of new elections. this is the way to bring the whole euro area into crisis, because the poison of the moment is the trick. the market is also watching the european union's ability to take decisions. it is very important that solutions are found. it is a historic decision, because we are now moving from this age-old coordination, where few people wanted to be coordinated, to governance, that is to say, to a completely new european economic architecture, which is a good thing. unfortunately, the bad reputation of this whole project was given by the neo-liberal... (speaker interrupted)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues for their excellent cooperation, especially mr schwab from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for his endless and very cooperative efforts to bring this report forward. the commission’s proposal left quite a lot of room for improvement. from the econ committee’s perspective there are three issues which i would like to raise. it is good that digital goods are included in the proposal. it is good that there is a clear signal for the development of alternative dispute resolution methods in the future. small and/or innovative financial products should be dealt with either in specific financial sector directives or in a future consumer protection directive. last but not least, i would hope that the next steps taken by the commission ensure a high level of consumer protection which could ultimately lead to full harmonisation of consumer protection regulation in the european union.
in writing. the commission's original proposal was very problematic for both consumers and businesses. the rapporteur has done a great deal of work, and the result is that, without compromising a high level of consumer protection, important steps towards a more uniform consumer protection can be taken in the development of the internal market. this will hopefully encourage cross-border distance selling. however, it should be borne in mind that there are many other factors that continue to hinder the growth of e-commerce in europe. we must continue to work, among other things, to speed up payment transactions and at the same time to improve the efficiency of cross-border payment collection, so that smes can also enter the european internet market with greater confidence.
for the verts/ale group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the climate package, we have decided that the carbon footprint of transport fuels must be reduced by 6% by 2020. it would be completely contradictory and unwise to ignore the most polluting fuels, such as oil sands, while encouraging their production in other parts of the world, not only in canada but also in africa. it is clear that the carbon footprint of oil from oil sands and oil shale must have its own default values. we need to isolate the other crude oil sources as soon as possible. i think that the canadian government has put pressure on the eu in a very inappropriate way and that is not something that should be tolerated. if the canadian oil sands oil footprint is below the reference value, canada can prove this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. first of all, let me thank the rapporteur for a good job. in these times, budgetary priorities are no easy task. i am also pleased that we are choosing eu2020 as the guiding light for next year's budget. as has been pointed out previously, we cannot afford to wait until 2014 for the next budgetary framework to be in place to implement the eu2020 strategy. the commission has an important responsibility to put forward proposals in its draft budget this summer. so far, we have not been able to allocate resources to the eu2020 strategy to the extent that would be needed. the risk is that it could happen just as göran färm warned, that the strategy will not be implemented but will be stuck in a drawer, which we do not want. my group tabled a number of amendments to the report and we are very pleased with the way they have been incorporated into the proposal. i would like to thank the rapporteur for that. i have to say to the council that we in the european parliament certainly have reason to examine ourselves and the way we approach the 2011 budget. we have succeeded in creating a conflict which has certainly given both ourselves and the politicians in the council cause for reflection. we need to think about how best to use the resources we have. we may have to consider savings within the eu budget as well. at the same time, we must not forget that the union has been given a lot of tasks to fulfil. they don't realize themselves. sometimes you get the feeling that the council believes that things can happen by themselves without having to re-prioritize or allocate resources, but unfortunately that is not the case. i look forward to a constructive proposal from the commission which can help us find a more constructive tone in the negotiations on the 2012 budget.
mr president, the creation of a permanent crisis management mechanism for europe is justified in the event of future economic and financial crises. no one wants crises, but they're bound to happen, and we have to prepare for the worst. it is regrettable that this crisis management mechanism is designed to be set up outside the eu institutions. the mechanism should now be brought as close as possible to the eu institutions. it is also important and good that the non-euro area countries sweden and the united kingdom can participate in this mechanism. i support efforts to improve economic policy coordination in europe, and i support the fact that if there are sanctions, they are decided by the commission and they come automatically and are not the subject of discussions or of such so-called cow-trading.
mr president, firstly, the fact that this combination promises equal rights and equal treatment for foreign workers is a good starting point. we must ensure that human rights are respected in the european union, so that workers from third countries receive the same pay, the same social security and the same working conditions as other workers. this is, of course, the starting point. i have a slight concern about one aspect of this report, although i voted for it, namely the scope of article 3. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it would be desirable to take this matter forward so that everyone is given equal consideration in this combined permit project. the positive and good thing is the one-stop-shop principle, i.e. that everyone can apply for this permit from one gate and no longer have to jump bureaucratically from one gate to another.
mr president, the reform of the consumer protection directive has been a long and fragmented process. the commission's initial idea of full harmonisation threatened to undermine the level of consumer protection for nordic consumers in particular. this would have been contrary to the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it states that consumer legislation must be based on the highest possible level of consumer protection. this is why it must always be remembered that the market is for the consumers and not the consumers for the market. legislation for consumers and small businesses must always be as clear and easy to understand as possible. it is in the interest of all parties to have legislation that is carefully and thoroughly prepared. it is therefore good that the directive should be referred back to committee, as parliament has decided today.
mr president, the internal market of the european union has so far been developed mainly on the terms of large companies. it is time to turn the page so that the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises and, above all, consumers are defended more strongly in the internal market. this commission proposal for a reform of consumer protection has been met with a rather mixed reception. in finland, for example, a consumer association gathered signatures for the petition. according to this petition, the proposal would have destroyed finnish consumer protection if it had been implemented. this compromise, which has now been voted on and which will be discussed further, is very difficult to understand. a lot of the original presentations have been scratched out, so this is not ambitious at all, but the biggest problem with this is that it's really hard to understand. i would like to propose that the consumer protection directive should be such that consumers can understand it, that is to say, it should protect consumers.
mr president, my two finnish colleagues, repo and jäätteenmäki, who have already spoken, have put forward some good ideas on this consumer protection directive. we finns and nordic citizens are concerned about the weakening of consumer protection. full harmonisation would mean that, particularly for the nordic countries, and would also slow down action in countries where things are not currently in order. it is very good that the report has been referred back to committee, because there are certain points which are a little problematic, particularly for small businesses. there is one small point i would like the committee to pay attention to. amendments nos 18 and 107 help to show that this would have a very negative impact on tourism businesses in northern finland, for example. many times the decision to go to a business, hotel or tourist accommodation is made on the way and people call and make a reservation. according to this directive, it would not be enough, but it should be sent by fax or something similar. in practice, this is not always possible. it is necessary to get down to the level of the citizens and to understand the different situations in the different member states.
in writing. the amendments tabled by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection are unfortunately of low quality in terms of legislation and chapters ii, iv and v are superfluous. amendment no 141 is unfair to small and mediumsized enterprises. the compromise proposals (block ii) make the restrictions on distance and home selling unreasonable and unacceptable.
in writing. the events in north africa have triggered a new wave of migration at europe's southern border. while we are considering solutions to the acute problem, we must also consider its causes. the fall of the arab dictatorships may be the biggest turning point in world politics since the fall of the iron curtain a couple of decades ago. it is, above all, a huge opportunity for democracy and civil rights. like all break-ins, this one also carries a risk. it is most acute when dictators who are coming to power threaten their own citizens, as is happening in libya. europe and its allies cannot and must not sit idly by while its borders are being torn apart. we have one mission, and we all have one mission: to do everything we can to save the lives of innocent citizens, women and children, when no one else can. the democratization of north africa, respect for human rights and the economic growth that will follow will be the best way to stem the flow of people to europe's southern border.
madam president, i would like to thank you. let me start with something positive. we could focus on the problems caused by the decisions you have taken in the council, and there are certainly such problems, but the positive thing is that you have made progress in terms of economic governance and the macroeconomic aspect. my colleague from ireland has just expressed the concern of the irish people. their problem is that we have not had any insight into the macroeconomic part of the problem. that is something we can have in the future thanks to this economic governance package. i think the council has gone in the right direction here. what is a little worrying, however, is that the council seems to lack the will to change its own decision-making culture. it wants to continue to be able to use various types of political arrangements, something that might be called a cow trade. but if you do not change the decision-making culture, i am afraid that in the future you will not be able to take the decisions that are needed when you are faced with difficult considerations based on the recommendations that i believe the commission is able to make. this is a challenge which the council must take seriously and address. this is also illustrated quite well by the trend we saw at the council meeting, where my own member state, finland, was also a little embarrassed on another issue, in this case the stability mechanisms. as a finn, i regret this. not all finns think so, but it is a good illustration of the need to change the decision-making culture in the council.
mr president, i would also like to point out that the flows of migrants due to instability constitute a real challenge for the european union. it's about individual human fates, where each person's story is different. they're driven by despair, but they're all united by a hope for the better. we must find sympathy and a willingness to help in europe. european integration is a successful joint project, which has created prosperity, stability and a secure 'welfare cradle'. it is difficult and expensive to respond to the wave of migration once it has already begun to knock on the gates of europe. the example of lampedusa shows how foreign security policy can become internal policy in an instant, and that is why development cooperation alone is no longer enough. europe needs a comprehensive preventive plan covering security, regional cooperation, trade policy, climate change, the protection of human rights and the development of democracy. this is how it's done.
in writing. - mr president, the life of rural women has changed and diversified in recent decades. traditional rural jobs have been reduced. at the same time, new ways of life have emerged, with women's backgrounds, education and position in the labour market, for example, being very different. these changes must also be better reflected in the union's support policy, so as to better reconcile the working and family lives of rural women. women have contributed to the development of traditional rural livelihoods in recent years through their education and skills. a wide range of innovative agricultural enterprises, including those focusing on services and farm tourism, have significantly boosted the economic structure of rural areas. the creation and development of innovative agricultural enterprises must continue to be supported. finally, i would like to recall that the promotion of gender equality is one of the main objectives of the eu and the member states. the principle of promoting equality must therefore also be incorporated into the union's common agricultural policy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. some of the things we are discussing now in rather heated terms were already debated last year. there was no willingness to review certain things. i am glad to hear, as my socialist colleague has just said, that there is a willingness to consider what we can do in the long term. that's probably the wisest way to approach this. this discussion also shows that an administrative discussion can easily be turned into a competition to see who is the most popular. unfortunately, there seems to be quite a few people in this chamber vying for the top prize. but i think we have to look at our costs and the only sensible way to do that is with a long-term perspective. on the liberal side, we have proposed some savings both last year and this year. we were among those who were happy that we could reap the increases that the bureau had originally proposed. in this context, i would like to thank alexander alvaro for a good job. when it comes to the proposal for a history museum, i must say that personally i am not particularly attracted to the idea, but at the same time i think it is good to remember that this process is long and it was launched during the last election period. now we have to decide how to deal with this. i think it would be good if the matter were put to a vote where those who feel they do not want a museum have a real opportunity to say no. it's possible that i'm one of them. however, i do not think we will gain anything by competing with each other to see who is the most popular in this context, but it is better to think seriously about where we can cut back.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr fernandez, on his excellent work. the increase of 2.3% is certainly much easier to accept and justify than the 5.2% presented by the bureau. parliament must be very self-critical in this budgetary procedure. this report has done so, but this work must continue very closely. i think it's important that savings have been sought in small streams, in different locations. i am sure that saving on cleaning and maintenance is one way to do this, but perhaps we should also make greater efforts to save on soap. in the middle of this year parliament voted to change the double session in autumn to a one-week session in strasbourg. the completion of this parliament's monthly plenary session would also bring considerable savings to parliament's budget.
in writing. reforming the union's common fisheries policy is one of the most important tasks of this parliament. as we all know, the eu's fisheries policy has been the subject of intense criticism for a long time and on this subject. there are many issues relating to overfishing, fishing in developing countries and state aid in the fisheries sector which need to be resolved urgently. the ferreira report on community financial measures presented today deals with the key issues for the reform of the fisheries policy: data collection, research, international cooperation, fisheries management and the monitoring systems for the common fisheries policy. it is also important to note that the harmonisation of fisheries policy, in particular with environmental and maritime policy, is a major priority and requires resources.
the committee on employment and social affairs has drawn up an opinion. - mr president, jacques delors was wrong to say that the single market cannot be loved, because there is so much passion in the debate on this subject. the commission's approach has been ambitious and there are very important projects under way: the european patent, the common energy market, etc. however, one thing remains unresolved: the social impact of this report is very low. for example, little is said about posted workers, and the terms used for services of general interest and the social clause of the internal market are unfortunately very vague. it is a mystery to me why stronger and more cohesive social rights are seen as a problem in the first place. i would like to remind my colleagues that in the nordic countries strong social rights have been successfully combined with high competitiveness and labour productivity. would that not be a much smarter approach, commissioner?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one of the reasons for the problems of the internal market is poor governance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the commission has also been able to take account of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the member states must therefore bear their own responsibility for the functioning of the internal market. common rules of the game, which are not respected in practice, are worthless. the inequality of eu citizens is at stake. the rights and obligations must be the same for all eu citizens and businesses. i think that the kalnieten report does not give sufficient weight to the role of the european parliament. the lisbon treaty provides that the parliament's legislative role must be equal to that of the council. i firmly believe that the relaunch of the internal market requires the equal participation and close cooperation of all the eu institutions. only by acting together can the objectives originally set for the internal market be achieved. these are the promotion of competitiveness, the social market economy and sustainable development. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very important one. the credibility of eu policy and the future of the european union ultimately depend on a functioning democracy. the legitimacy of parliament's activities is guaranteed by direct popular elections for 500 million european voters. they are the most important political actors, agents and decision-makers in europe. their behaviour and decisions will determine the functioning of the internal market and the future of the european union.
mr president, i voted for the report, but we must set an example and be very careful, especially with regard to budgetary discipline. i should like to explain why i voted against amendment no 8 tabled by the socialist group. in it the rapporteur talks about the use of unused appropriations for construction projects. this has been the practice here for many years, and this way of financing construction projects is not open and transparent. we must tell the budgetary authorities what construction projects we have and not use this kind of unbalanced transfer of appropriations. that is why i voted against the proposal from this group on behalf of the socialist group on amendment no 8.
mr president, a few words about this budget, revenue and expenditure. we must of course, in this economic situation, also here in the european parliament, ensure that expenditure is kept under control. that is why i voted in a few respects differently from the way it was recommended. i think we should be prepared to cut, for example, travel costs, but in such a way that if flights are cut, members of the european parliament's tickets would be exchangeable. sometimes the problem is that you can't change these cheap airline tickets. i myself come here on several flights, including three flights to strasbourg, so it would be important to have tickets that can be exchanged. so sometimes these savings proposals may be such that they will cost more precisely because they lack flexibility. but we have to cut costs, that's for sure. some of the costs have to be seen as investments, and i believe that this european house can be a good investment, which will also add economic value to the european union and its institutions in the future.
mr president, i voted in favour of this motion, which was very worthy, because it is a question of financing political parties with taxpayers' money. of course, then we have to have clear rules, the same rules for everyone. i think that the parties must also have their own fundraising, at least some of it. in amendment no 2 the social democrats proposed that this own contribution should be limited to 5%. i think it should be at least 10%, which is a very small amount considering that it is taxpayers' money and we have to be very careful about these things.
mr president, this was a very important report for the advancement of the internal market. but when we talk about consumer protection, there was an important amendment no 3, which said that minimum harmonisation in consumer legislation must be put before full harmonisation. i voted for this amendment against my own group because i think that in my own country, for example, the level of consumer protection is extremely high. if we now move quickly to having a completely uniform consumer protection throughout the eu, i know that the level of consumer protection in my own country will fall. i therefore believe that the only way to achieve this uniform level of consumer protection is to establish certain minimum levels first and then to move towards a fully uniform level.
in writing. - eu member states are faced with difficult decisions these days on their own national budgets. the expenditure is being looked at critically and the same must be done in the eu. i am not in favour of increasing the union budget, but of cutting it. in difficult economic times, there is no justification for the european parliament to plan to increase its expenditure next year by 2.3% compared to this year. the annual budget of the european parliament, which is about eur 1.7 billion, needs to be scaled up. the plans for the european historic house project must now be put on hold. the freight train between strasbourg and brussels costs european taxpayers some eur 200 million a year. that is as much money as the annual budget of the european court of human rights. the alde group, which represents the centre-right and liberal parties in the european parliament, is so far the only political group in the parliament to have called for strasbourg to be abandoned. i would urge other parliamentary groups and, above all, the eu member states, which are the ones who actually decide on this matter, to make the same demand.
in writing. - it is clear that breast milk is the best food for a newborn baby. however, not all mothers are able to breast-feed their children, for example, because of health problems. so there is a need for breast-milk substitutes. it is therefore desirable that the substitute be as similar in composition as possible to breast milk. this motion for a resolution called into question the importance of the ingredient dha for the child and his development. dha is intended to replace the fatty acid found in breast milk, which has been shown to help the development of a child's eyes and which at least some manufacturers of substitutes have added to their products. this proposal sought in particular to prohibit the disclosure of dha to consumers, for example in the product information. although i would like to call for caution in general in the use of various marketing materials, i feel that after many scientific tests it should be possible to tell the consumer. politicians must also rely on the decisions of the various security authorities. in this case, the european food safety authority (esfa) has established, on the basis of scientific evidence, that the product is safe. for these reasons i voted against the motion for a resolution on the authorization and refusal of authorization of certain health claims made on foods and referring to children's development and health.
in writing. - the development of european political parties is important. the european parliament has traditionally been concerned about the lack of interest of citizens in eu affairs. this has been reflected in the low voter turnout in the parliamentary elections. in the last european elections, a modest 40.3% of finnish voters turned out. funding for european political parties and foundations has increased significantly in recent years. this year, the parties are receiving a total of eur 17.4 million and the foundations eur 11.4 million. it is now necessary to ensure that this money from european taxpayers is spent in a transparent and as rational way as possible. there is also no need to increase the aid in the future.
mr president, it is good that the eu wants stress tests for its member states and its neighbours. the only weakness is that they're not mandatory. the eu kindly and sincerely asks that these should now be carried out. the second weakness is that the eu has not developed common standards. they should definitely be. thirdly, these tests should be carried out by an independent body. i do not believe that the national authorities will come to say that their own country has done badly or that they themselves have failed to do so. so for these to be real tests, they should have standards, they should be open, and they should have independent actors.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am angry. at our group meeting yesterday we heard from three witnesses from human rights watch and amnesty international who were present in bahrain, yemen and syria. their stories were appalling. it made me angry. the letter we received from baroness ashton is no strategy. once again it is another agenda. we should stop sending empty messages, as we have done for too long with tunisia, egypt and libya. it is time to take action. firstly, the eu should call for a special session of the un human rights council in geneva. the un should send a mission to the three countries in order to hold the regimes accountable for human rights violations. secondly, the eu should call for a ban on arms exports from all eu member states to those three countries. it is unacceptable that eu countries are still selling arms to these regimes. thirdly, the eu should make clear that, if political regimes in those countries constitute an obstacle to democratisation, it is time for them to go. meanwhile we should introduce sanctions such as freezing assets and a travel ban. i repeat that it is time to take action.
mr president, we have heard that parliament is now very serious about tackling the serious human rights violations in the three countries: bahrain, yemen and syria. we need to hear from the european external action service, we need to hear from the commission how we can show that we are no longer working on the basis of double standards. we have been told about very many concrete measures. we need to hear how the operations in the un human rights council are proceeding. is the european union united in the call for special sessions on syria, bahrain and yemen? we have heard that it is time to stop exporting weapons to these countries. we cannot wait, so please, what are the european external action service and the commission going to do about these things now?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we too can congratulate ourselves. the willingness of icelanders to join us shows that the eu is still attractive. the stability, prosperity and security that european integration has brought have been so successful that a country with a high standard of living like iceland is willing to join us. of course, the icelandic economic crisis may also have played a role in this. however, iceland's eu membership must not be taken for granted. have we thought enough about what iceland's added value to europe is? the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not affected by the crisis. iceland would become the smallest eu country in terms of population. on the other hand, it is ironic that, compared to previous enlargements, it is iceland, as a rich and beloved applicant country, which would actually fulfil the conditions for eu membership. i hope that there will be an active and fully open debate on iceland's membership of the eu.
mr president, we are in a hurry to help libya, but we have been standing idle since last november on the ivory coast. the sanctions imposed by the council are a step in the right direction, but when will they be lifted? why has the abidjan port authority imposed sanctions against cocoa beans and closed the oil refinery? instead of helping, we should not cause more harm. the ivory coast economy and, in the long run, european consumers will suffer. laurent gbagbo must be sidelined and the speedy return of refugees to their homes must be supported. the surrounding countries cannot cope with the current refugee population. the eu must help organise elections and build democratic institutions. however, normal business should not be impeded. the ivory coast is the most prosperous economic region in west africa. the economic recovery and access to the eu market for exported products are the real keys to the country's recovery. i'm waiting for the commission's answer.
mr president, it is very important that we should not only talk about the southern neighbourhood but also about the eastern neighbourhood. there are a great many internal management problems and at least the management of the russia programmes should be transferred to the regional policy directorate-general, as this would give the authorities managing the programmes the possibility of adapting them more to regional specificities and circumstances. this would also ensure their continuity. it should be borne in mind that this change would not in itself require any specific changes to the legislative framework of the programmes or to the eu budget, but would be an internal decision of the commission. at the moment there are a lot of problems within these programmes and we should make structural changes. that would be a clear message and i hope that the commission will do all it can to ensure that this decision is taken.
i think it is very important, mr president, that we voted in favour of this report by a clear majority. this is precisely the work that the european parliament must do to maintain the confidence of the citizens in this system. but why did i want to bring this up now, after the vote? i would like to stress, as the rapporteur has done, that this is an important issue, particularly between the institutions, and these tables of correspondence are an important starting point. i hope that this will be carried out to the end without any dispute between the institutions, and that it will be implemented as quickly as possible.
mr president, this was an extremely important discussion and i think it is important that parliament send a clear message that we are really concerned about what has happened. we want to show the citizens that we are doing everything possible to ensure that nuclear power stations in europe and the rest of the world are as safe as possible. we also want to show that nuclear power can be continued when there is certainty. it is a pity that the majority here voted against it, and that this clear message did not leave the chamber today.
mr president, i too could not vote in favour of this resolution as it came to the vote. in europe, citizens are rightly fearful for their safety. this should be our priority right now. concrete measures are needed to raise the level of security among citizens. this resolution divided the whole house. it should not be a question of whether we are against or for nuclear power, but we are demanding minimum safety standards for the whole of europe. the stress tests proposed by the commission are not enough to reassure citizens. the commission should therefore explore alternative energy solutions for the future, while taking into account the different energy needs of the eu member states. i believe that investment in nuclear power must not reduce research and development in renewable energy sources.
madam president, i also am disappointed that this house was not able to send a balanced and reasonable message. there is no doubt that the damage to the fukushima nuclear power plant is a disaster, but the final death toll will not be counted in thousands or hundreds, and perhaps not even in tens. as a result of the world’s most severe earthquake recorded in that area, there will be an estimated 30 000 to 40 000 deaths due to destroyed roads, bridges, railway lines and buildings. should we demolish all similar structures in the eu, just in case? that is my question. nuclear technology is not at fault in japan; the location is. a panic reaction in europe is therefore not only ridiculous, it could also damage the environment because there is no credible supply of a low-carbon alternative to nuclear energy, and fossil fuels will prosper. do we really want that?
mr president, i am sure that everyone in europe is concerned about security, and that is an important matter. we need to build systems that are secure. but i have to say, after fukushima, there's been a bit of an overreaction. on the other hand, it's very human. i remember the time when the estonia was sunk, there were people who thought that all ships should be banned because they were dangerous. well, these are the kind of thoughts that might come to mind. even now, it must be remembered that one of the 54 nuclear power plants failed the test that the tsunami and earthquake caused. but nevertheless, we must now calmly look at things and remember that the individual must not be made general. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. it is very important to ensure that nuclear technology is safe, and i know that europe will continue to be built safely and that must be taken into account, but there is no reason for this kind of false hysteria.
mr president, in syria, bahrain and yemen, people have risen up in defence of human dignity, transparency, fundamental rights and the right to democracy. the european union has shown its will and capacity to protect the libyan civilian population and support the democratic revolution. we must avoid double standards and show that we are acting in accordance with our values in the european union's external policy. the situation in north africa and the middle east is a real test for europe's new foreign policy. a functioning and just society requires honest dialogue and interaction between civil society and political decision-makers. we must listen to the people we want to remind syria, bahrain and yemen of this. we're not here to foment a revolution. the satisfaction, security and welfare of its citizens are the priorities of a just state. with this resolution we are demonstrating that europe's foreign policy is based on the values on which it is also built.
the european union, mr president, is of course aware that it must implement its own fundamental values in its policy. human rights are one of the key issues; we must take them to the middle east. we really need to have a concept and an understanding of what human rights mean. it is not easy, because the culture of the middle east is based on different values. we in europe have grown up with a world of judeo-christian values, and their values are rising again from islamic thought. each person is treated differently and each person is thought of differently. in any event, since 1963 syria has implemented a law of exception which has allowed people to be executed without trial. now this uprising shows us that europe really needs to open its eyes to the fact that the only success story in the middle east is its only democratic state - israel - with freedom of speech, human rights and democracy. we should now have more of this influence in syria, bahrain and yemen, so that they accept human rights for all, including the rights of women and children, and perhaps thereby get on the road to democracy. but i am not naive, and i know that it is difficult to promote these values in the islamic world, but as europeans we should try to promote and promote these values.
mr president, i am sorry and regret the incident that took place before the vote. you did the right thing. the european union has promised the possibility of enlargement to the balkan countries. i consider it the only guarantee of peace there, as martti ahtisaari has stated before me. for the second year in a row, the commission has recommended opening accession negotiations with macedonia. the european union must not retreat behind the umbrella of the macedonian accession process. the formal requirements for membership must of course be met and reforms must be implemented. the name macedonia would not be the first time that a new member state brings with it unsolved problems. so we all need to look in the mirror. why should we treat macedonia unequally? the progress of macedonia depends primarily on macedonia itself, but the eu should not close the door to it for political reasons, as the nomenclature suggests.
mr president, i was happy to vote in favour of this resolution. i think it is particularly important that we take a clear and firm stand on belarus, which is a clear stain on the map of europe, and that we take measures to put belarus on the road to democracy. but i would like to go over in particular amendment no 1 tabled by the socialist group in paragraph 10, where they stated that the eu's partner countries have the long-term prospect of joining the eu. i voted against it because i think we should not allow any automation and we should not flirt with the idea that anyone can become a member here as long as they have a partner. we know how the citizens feel about excessively rapid enlargement, and that is why proposals like this should not be accepted. that is why i myself voted against this.
in writing. the disaster in japan has raised concerns about nuclear safety. in the liberal resolution we stressed that we want the proposed stress tests to be mandatory for the member states, that independent experts should be responsible for their implementation and that the tests should be transparent. we abstained in the vote on the joint resolution because it also proposed a 'moratorium' on not developing new nuclear power while the stress tests are under way. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. we do not want to prohibit the development of a technology that contributes to the eu's objective of reducing its carbon dioxide emissions. we are against a "ban on nuclear power". in sweden, following the 1986 chernobyl accident, rules were introduced making it illegal to prepare for the construction of nuclear power plants. we also believe that finland and sweden should invest in nuclear research and lead the development of future generations of nuclear reactors. the conclusion to be drawn from the accident in japan is that nuclear power stations should not be run for so many years. rather, the accident can be seen as an inspiration for building new nuclear power.
author. − mr president, it is no coincidence that the increasingly repressive measures against chinese journalists, dissidents, human rights activists and lawyers is taking place in the aftermath, or during the turmoil, of the north african revolutions. the word ‘jasmine’ has been banned from the chinese internet recently. today’s news, which mr preda highlighted, is very significant because now we see how dictators copy from each other and compare notes. we can see that the methods that russia used against khodorkovsky and lebedev have been used by venezuela and kazakhstan against businessmen who come too close to political influence, who want to establish opposition parties: they are all punished in the name of economic crimes. punishment of economic crime is the name they give to political repression. we have to be aware that this has not happened much before in china: this is a turning point that does not bode well. it is important that members of the european parliament raise the persecuted activists’ names when they travel to china and when meeting their chinese counterparts, and that they insist on a prison visit. we know that many of those who are persecuted suffer terrible torture in chinese prisons, sometimes in what we call ‘black jails’ which are completely unidentified places. this is a reminder to all european parliament delegations that all of them are entitled and obliged to exercise their duty in respect of human rights when they visit countries. we call for the immediate release of ai wei wei.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i am very pleased that we as the european parliament were able to put the ongoing human rights violation on the list of urgent appeals very quickly. as we know, the ai weiwei case is certainly not the only serious human rights violation that the chinese communist party is continually committing, but just as representative hautala has already mentioned here earlier, the conditions of democracy in china have been given a whole new impetus by the uprisings in north africa. in recent weeks, the authorities have stepped up their crackdown on government critics, and several anti-government dissidents, activists and human rights lawyers have been placed under house arrest or in police custody. as amnesty international has said, ai weiwei's arrest is an alarming turn in the chinese authorities' expanding crackdown on dissent. at this moment, economic interests must not be allowed to cloud the discussion of human rights and prevent the demand for the immediate release of prisoners of conscience.
mr president, the internationally acclaimed artist ai weiwei is a treasure trove of chinese culture and art. instead of rewarding and appreciating the artist, china has locked him up. human rights are not just a european concept, but are universal principles of human dignity. the representatives of the european union external action service and the eu delegation to china should raise the ai weiwei case at the highest diplomatic level with the chinese authorities. the human rights dialogue with china must not, however, remain at the level of mere diplomatic speeches. the european union must draw its conclusions and reconsider its relations with china in the light of the repeated violations of human rights and the deteriorating human rights situation. human rights dialogue should not be empty words but positive steps, monitoring and genuine dialogue between the two sides. moreover, culture and art are a resource that enriches and advances society, here in the west as well as in the east, in the south and in the north.
mr president, the chinese pressure on the tibetan government in exile has increased. more than 10,000 tibetans in nepal were not allowed to vote for the prime minister and representatives to the parliament of the exiled government. the main parties in nepal, under chinese pressure, support this so-called one-china policy and consider tibet an integral part of china. for these reasons, tibetan refugees in nepal are under constant tight control. although this resolution deals with the ban on elections, the background is the chinese occupation of tibet. china's influence and pressure are growing with economic power. this, as well as the previous resolution on ai weiwei, shows how dark the policy of the chinese communist party is. as the commissioner has said, europe must adopt a one-vote policy towards china.
mr president, the right to participate in democratic elections is a universal fundamental right. the elections now under way are important for the preservation of tibetan identity and culture. tibetans are voting for a new spiritual leader as the current dalai lama steps aside. we agreed back in 2009 that the eu's external relations should support democracy and participatory governance. we need to be consistent and stand behind this policy. it's clear that nepal is going along with china in the face of pressure. the government of nepal should be reminded of its international human rights obligations to safeguard the democratic rights of the tibetan people and not to obstruct the holding of free elections.
in writing. the dalai lama of tibet has decided to step down from his political role and continue as the spiritual leader of his people. indeed, he is one of the best-known values leaders whose ideas of kindness, understanding, and pacifism have been a source of strength and comfort to people around the world. the spiritual role remains, but the political functions now pass to the prime minister of the tibetan government in exile. but not without problems. due to increasing pressure from the chinese government, an estimated 20,000 tibetans living in nepal were not allowed to vote. the nepalese government has declared that the tibetan protests are against its "one china" policy and confirmed that it will not allow "anti-beijing activities" on its soil and has therefore imposed a voting ban on tibetan groups. this is not surprising, as the nepalese authorities have been repeatedly guilty of violating the freedom of expression and human rights of tibetan exiles. this is despite nepal being a signatory to the un international covenants on civil and political rights. the european external action service should closely monitor the political situation in nepal, in particular the treatment of tibetan refugees and respect for their rights, from its representation in kathmandu. the respect of democratic principles is essential for the preservation and strengthening of tibetan identity both within and outside tibet.
in february, the eu foreign affairs council adopted conclusions on the situation in zimbabwe. the eu sanctions are being extended because the country has not made sufficient progress in implementing internal reforms. the removal of restrictions requires concrete progress in the implementation of the 2008 political agreement. that ostensible power-sharing agreement has not been able to prevent the continued persecution of mugabe's opponents by mugabe's security forces, and arbitrary arrests, torture and murder of mugabe's opponents are still taking place, even at ministerial level. as the eu sanctions are not directed against the people of zimbabwe, the eu is still the country's largest donor, providing support mainly to agriculture and food production. the eu must continue to put pressure on mugabe and, if elections are subsequently held, the eu must participate as an observer.
in zimbabwe, mr president, president mugabe and the zanu-pf party have failed to comply with the terms of the 2009 global political agreement. zimbabwe has not been able to make the transition to democracy. the intimidation of political opponents, arbitrary arrests and disappearances have only increased markedly in recent months. efforts to create stability are not bearing fruit in a political climate such as the present one. zimbabwe is still a country where one can be beaten or tortured for their political opinions. the legislation that suppresses free and open journalism restricts the right to freedom of expression and journalists are harassed. the country's development towards genuine democracy and economic development must be supported in every way. it is right and justified that the european council decided in february this year to continue the restrictive measures against persons and entities associated with the mugabe administration and to keep a record of that blacklist. i also think that they should continue until there is real evidence that there is really change in zimbabwe, but the measures should only target the corrupt government of zimbabwe and not worsen the situation of the zimbabwean people.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank everyone with whom i have worked. above all, the shadow speakers, with whom we have worked very well. i also thank the members of the committee on budgetary control, because the report was supported by a clear majority in the committee and the atmosphere was excellent, and all the officials who have been helping. the work has been demanding, it has been done for a long time and the issues are quite delicate and difficult, but they must be dealt with and discussed. the main idea of the report is that we are currently living in an economic crisis in the eu. member states, businesses and citizens are constantly faced with the question of how to find savings, how to get ahead in everyday life. the same must be done by parliament, and the council has said that it must also think about savings and find them. this is of course difficult because we all have our own favourite child, an idea of what parliament should do. of course, finding places to save money can be very difficult at times. many of the things that are presented here, which relate to the benefits and practices of members, are not very large in monetary terms. the eu economy does not rise or fall with them, but the loss of reputation we can cause when we do not act in a sensible and acceptable way from the point of view of the citizens is considerable, and therefore we have to think very carefully about what we are going to do. i think we should focus on the essential thing that we're here for. we are the legislature, we make the budget, that is the work we do and we must have the conditions for that. the information technology must work and everything else must work, but for everything that goes beyond that, we have to be very critical of whether it is really part of the work we have to do. i would like to draw attention to two important but perhaps also difficult points in this report, since time is short. the first is safety. president. - i hope the secretary-general will make a proposal as soon as possible to improve security. we've had three robberies in the last year or so, bank robberies, canteen robberies, mail robberies. this cannot continue. we know that there is a constant threat of terrorism throughout the world. if the security of parliament is so weak that you can walk in and rob a post office or a bank and not even catch anyone, then you have to make improvements and make them quickly. there are many details to this and they are presented in this report, which is the basis on which it is absolutely essential to improve safety. the next important point is that i cannot justify to the citizens that we change jobs every three weeks. there's going to be a lot of extra costs. it is not justifiable and that is why we must dare to discuss openly here whether this is a sensible use of taxpayers' money. we know how difficult this is, it has its own history, its own passions, but in the current economic crisis we have to speak up for this. we cannot build such walls between the people and the politicians and distance the people and the politicians from each other on these issues, and that is why we must speak about this and bring it to the fore. i saw a document yesterday which said that the french senate had proposed that parliament should meet in one place only, in strasbourg. this suits me well, since the main thing is that we have only one job and do not spend money on constant travel.
mr president, i should like to focus my speech on cohesion policy. although the error rate in cohesion policy has decreased significantly since 2008, from 11% to around 5%, it remains the area where we face considerable challenges in the use of funds. the main challenges are specifically related to public procurement, and most of the problems that have occurred with cohesion funds are also related to complex implementing rules and acts arising from the financial regulation, which do not always take sufficient account of the complex network of actors in regional development. there has also been a lot of talk about increasing the risk of error. it must be remembered, however, that this does not remove the fundamental problem of the over-complexity of rules and systems, and that in this case the problem should not be solved from the wrong end. at the same time, parliament is also examining the financial regulation for the future financial framework. although the discharge process under discussion looks ahead to 2009, it is important to learn from the lessons of tomorrow and finally to simplify the financial management as well.
the rapporteur. - mr president, when i spoke in my opening speech about the security of parliament, president buzek immediately said that the bureau had discussed this matter. it is a great thing, an important thing, and i thank the secretary-general for taking action quickly. i want to thank him for many other measures that have led to improvements in this house. 2009 was an election year, and then new rules for both the assistants and the members came into force. there were a lot of problems and under the leadership of the secretary-general and the roth-behrendt working group, changes have been made and that is a great thing. many people have asked why i am mentioning travel between strasbourg and brussels. because the public doesn't understand that we're wasting taxpayers' money. what happens when the people don't understand? finland recently held elections. the only party that won was the eurosceptics, and they won big. if this spreads in europe, then we are in big trouble in important matters. finland is not going to accept the portuguese package. these things affect each other, and that is why i am trying to explain here that if we are not ready for change now, then the citizens will not follow us and we will lose out on big, important and important eu issues. that's why we have to fix the little things.
mr president, a few words about the eu budget. first of all, i think it is very important to ensure that the use of money by the european parliament is transparent and open. we are indeed living in the kind of time in europe where all the member states are having to cut their budgets and live in the very precise time of the euro, so we too must be in the same line. it is very important that openness and transparency are at the heart of everything we do. however, there are a few, i would say, small bouquets of flowers that some people wanted to cut, and i think that this type of cultural service and cultural awards, such as the lux prize, for example, with a saving of a few tens of thousands of euros, are not the right targets, because we see that culture and the creative industries have been the source of growth right now. it is important in this respect that when cuts are made, we take the view that we are not cutting the sources that are producing growth in the european union, but rather cutting the bureaucracy that is not producing growth. finally, i hope that the salary reform for us members of parliament, which has been passed, will be implemented everywhere, in the same way in every member state of the european union, because i understood that the basis of this reform was that all members of the european parliament should receive the same salary, and this should also be taken into account by the national governments in their own taxation practices.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 25 years after the chernobyl disaster, we still do not have a comprehensive systematic study of the health effects of the disaster. there are only separate uncoordinated studies of, for example, the incidence of thyroid cancer in ukraine and belarus. this lack of a comprehensive follow-up study is a disgrace and i ask the commission for a clear commitment that the commission will work towards such a comprehensive international study. in this debate, too, it has been argued that chernobyl caused only a few dozen deaths. the top of the estimates is moving in millions of dead. this confusion is possible precisely because there is no comprehensive research. such research would also improve the knowledge of all mankind about the health effects of radiation.
the author's substitute. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the poor implementation of the waste export regulation has been a serious problem for a long time. this has been highlighted by the european union network for the implementation and enforcement of environmental law since 2003 and has provided clear suggestions for improvement. however, the commission has taken almost no action, except for the numerous studies it has carried out and the proposal for the renewal of the re directive. for more than a decade, parliament has called for stricter controls, including legislation on european controls: in the 1999 jackson report on minimum control requirements, in the 2003 blokland report on the reform of waste export legislation and in the 2008 resolution on minimum control requirements. all of this has been largely ignored by the commission. in 2006, we were shocked by the huge trafigura scandal, when large amounts of toxic waste were dumped in côte d'ivoire. the commissioner for the environment, dimas, promised to look for ways to strengthen the waste export regulation and its implementation in the member states, but nothing concrete happened. two years ago, a commission study recommended the creation of a specific agency for the enforcement of waste legislation, which would carry out a number of tasks, such as checking member states' control systems, coordinating controls and inspections, but no proposal has been made. last year, a commission study concluded that the best option would be a legal instrument for the criteria for inspections, but no proposal has been made, despite commissioner potočnik's statement that enforcement of eu environmental legislation is his priority. i now ask the commission when will the commission actually take proper action and not always carry out further investigations? when will we get the right legislative proposal, and not just information and research? as mr seeber has said, this would also improve europe's resource efficiency.
i would also like to welcome, mr president, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, mrs ashton, who is honouring us with her presence here today. this is my first speech and i therefore also welcome all my new colleagues in the european parliament. i would like to comment briefly on the creation of a common eu foreign policy. a stronger common voice in our foreign policy is certainly a good thing, but it must not be outside the member states' own foreign policy, its flexibility or independence. the question is, if not the member states, who does the eu represent? once again, the question must be asked: who do the member states' own representatives represent if the eu represents them on their behalf? the basic principle must be that there should be no duplication of structures and that the union's structures should not be unnecessarily enlarged. this is particularly so as it is very doubtful whether eu citizens want integration at all, even in the field of foreign policy.
mr president, the events in north africa have once again demonstrated the inefficiency and inefficiency of the eu's common foreign policy. the eu's demands for respect for human rights and democracy are essentially a battle of the minds of a delusional and rusty-armored don quixote against windmills, compared with the lucrative arms trade of the eu member states. seven of the world's ten largest arms sellers are eu countries, eu member states, and arms have been sold to libya, egypt, tunisia, bahrain and yemen. would it be time to make arms export control a priority for eu foreign policy? 27 coordination of foreign and security policy is not an easy task and the shipwreck cannot be blamed on the captain alone. member states have the right to have their own foreign policy. but we can expect one or two things from the doorkeeper, namely initiative and ideas, and we still expect these.
mr president, my comments are for baroness ashton. vice-president/high representative ashton, you have very clearly heard this morning that parliament will fully support your leadership role and is demanding that you take the initiative in our common foreign and security policy. you have also heard the many questions by colleagues about who and which member states are blocking our common efforts. my suggestion to you would be that, now that the european external action service is putting in place its rules on access to information and access to documents, please make this a modern organisation which is accessible to citizens and which does not deal with foreign policy as if it were only the domain of some secretive diplomats. i am sure this would be the best way to boost our common efforts for a truly common foreign and security policy.
, in writing. mr president, our common foreign and security policy is at a turning point. the lisbon treaty has enabled the union to develop its external relations in a way that was not possible before. however, progress has been rather slow so far. but our common european values allow us to build a european foreign policy based on sustainable development and human rights. we need a clear european external relations strategy to enable the eu to make a determined contribution to a global policy based on multilateralism. a key element of this policy is to support the work of the un and to clarify eu policy towards the un.
the free trade agreement with india is the most important free trade agreement the eu has negotiated to date. the european union must emphasise its social responsibility. we know very well what india's biggest problems are: child labour, poverty and inequality. we are now in the process of concluding a trade agreement whose real beneficiaries are industry and large companies in europe. the european consumer certainly benefits from cheap labour in india, for example in the form of lower prices for products, but this should not be allowed to happen at the expense of indian small producers. it is hypocritical to claim that europe is a pioneer in social responsibility. the eu must demand and monitor the right to free trade and to prevent abuses. it is important that the commission includes legally binding clauses on human rights, social and environmental standards and corporate social responsibility in the fta and monitors that these requirements are also met.
i was in favour of the report, mr president, but i would like to ask whether the european union has the capacity to act to promote peace and stability in our neighbouring countries, and i am referring in particular to syria, libya and egypt. our actions in libya will demonstrate the true state of our security and defence policy. the eu's main objective in libya is to protect the civilian population and support the efforts of the libyan people to establish a democratic society. the memories of the balkans in the 1990s are still fresh in our minds. europe had to turn to the united states for help. in any case, libya has shown that the eu is not a military power, and that action has now been left to the member states. with the example of north africa, we now know that the need for eu military readiness and capability at europe's gates is still a reality. the foreign affairs council has been in operation for over a year, and we can already expect results.
in writing. - mr president, i am glad that we have finally concluded the text of the textile labelling act for parliament with very substantial proposals for improvement, which the council is also ready to adopt and implement. the committee's work on the regulation was sometimes very ambitious, and fortunately we did not have to do that. it is a clear improvement that products must now be clearly labelled with ingredients of animal origin, for reasons of public health, since for many allergy sufferers, for example, fur is a health risk. although some producers of products opposed this initiative, citing already existing legislation on the labelling of ingredients of animal origin, the improvement is now a concrete demonstration of the eu's consumer-oriented thinking. on the other hand, the compulsory labelling of products from third countries would have been ineffective and expensive to implement as such. it is difficult to assess directly the added value of such a requirement for the consumer, especially in a globalised world where products are rarely produced and come from only one country. it is therefore important that the commission now investigate the matter and that the practical implementation of the matter be carefully weighed. in this context, it is also natural that the integration and renewal of product labelling should be assessed in a holistic manner, as has now been agreed.
in writing. - telecommunications are now as important as conventional transport. both for citizens and for businesses. in the country, in the city. wireless internet is a prerequisite for high-speed broadband access for all europeans. this requires specifically allocated radio frequencies to ensure seamless connections. it is good that new radio frequencies are being freed up as member states move from analogue to digital television. we need to use them now. europe needs the widest broadband capacity and the fastest speeds to cope with the emerging economies, such as china and india, in the modern economy. let's work together to ensure that the next generation of google and facebook is born in europe!
in writing. - mr president, i was responsible in the committee on the internal market for the opinion on the radio spectrum programme and i am very pleased with the text now voted. i have strongly advocated a forward-looking and ambitious spectrum policy that fosters new innovations and global competitiveness. this is essential as we look for new avenues for economic growth in europe. wireless internet services, and specifically the mobile sector, are in dire need of new frequencies, given the sharp increase in sales and use of smartphones and other similar wireless devices in recent years. the lack of frequencies should not be a brake on innovation when we develop new technologies and services. radio frequencies are a scarce resource and a public good, and we must also strive to make much more efficient use of them. the main objectives of the radio spectrum programme are the availability of broadband connections throughout the eu by 2013 and high-speed internet connections by 2020. in addition to the 'digital surplus' allocated to wireless internet services (i.e. the 800 mhz band), we need to look to the future and explore the possibilities of the next potential bands, such as the 700 mhz band. the best capacity and the fastest speed would provide the best basis for competition and innovation. the growing need in asia and the usa has already been taken into account, so it is particularly important that in the eu we set ourselves ambitious enough targets to maintain competitiveness in this sector.
in writing. − today it was an easy task to vote for the report on forest protection and information in the eu: preparing forests for climate change. the eu forests are now facing more pressure than ever before, not necessarily because of climate change but rather because of some of the decisions made in the eu to combat it. the fact that we now have requested within this report legally binding sustainability criteria on energy-creating biomass is an important initiative. the eu biofuel legislation, along with legislation for renewables, has driven our forest use in an unsustainable direction. if we consider forests solely as a source of renewable energy, we totally have missed the point of combining sustainable industry and environment protection. forests are an important source of livelihood and well-being within our borders, therefore this valuable natural source should be used for production rather than short-sighted energy. one should also remember that the wood products themselves tie carbon during their whole life cycle, therefore we should avoid any corner-cutting in trying to reach our renewable goals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very regrettable that this bill has failed, and i agree with those who say that it was because the commission and the council decided to put the interests of the foreign meat industry first. the benefits of those who want to make a business out of cloning animals at the expense of animal suffering. the european parliament, on the other hand, listened to the european consumers, the vast majority of whom do not want cloning to be used in meat and milk production, the vast majority of whom want to reduce animal suffering, not increase it. parliament was certainly not inflexible. parliament made huge concessions and was prepared to back down on the ban on labelling. even the council did not agree to this, and as we have now heard from kartika liotard and peter liese, among others, the arguments of the council and the commission were completely false and most likely even deliberately false. it is quite clear that a lasting solution to this problem will not be found unless we take as a starting point the respect for the wishes of european consumers to reduce rather than increase animal suffering.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. my colleague has just said that a year is a good time for reflection and i can say this from finland, where it will hopefully be announced tonight that the finnish parliament will support the aid package for portugal. i hope so, but we're not going to applaud yet. we can hope that it will be, and at least my party is behind it. i shall briefly analyse why we in finland are hesitant at the moment whether to support portugal or not. one reason is that - here i am addressing the council, and although i know that the hungarian presidency may not be to blame, you must be the messenger - the fact that difficult decisions are always taken in the form of small interim decisions because we are not able to solve this at once. it may not be easy to do so either, and i understand that there is no simple and complete solution, but the constant need to take small and difficult decisions is beginning to strain the political patience and political will of the finnish parliament, for example. unfortunately, this also seems to apply to some other national parliaments. this is worrying, given that we are probably faced with several difficult decisions, including the situation in greece, and there is a risk that at some stage we will be faced with a wall, and therefore the council will probably have to consider a more ambitious approach than this sub-strategy that you are currently applying. if you don't, we're not gonna get out of this. you need a new strategy, because the current strategy is not working. thank you, sir.
mr president, i have good news for the portuguese people. i have just received information that an agreement has been reached in finland and the commission's proposal for a loan facility for portugal has been accepted, so finland is no longer an obstacle. i also have the duty to ask, and i ask my colleague: do you believe that with the tightening of the belt that is now taking place in portugal, you will be able to achieve economic growth that will melt the loans?
mr president, this has been a useful discussion. this is a very difficult situation for these crisis countries, but it is equally difficult for germany, austria and finland, because in these countries the taxpayers have been living on a budgetary diet and have experienced severe crises. the questions are well-founded and it is therefore very important that this portuguese issue be made a model for how to contain and manage the crisis and prevent it from spreading. i think that portugal must now first of all guarantee the repayment of its loans by selling its assets, as has been said, and then consult individual lenders in order to obtain concrete proposals and ideas on how to overcome this crisis. the voters in germany, austria and finland cannot bear the thought that there will be more bailouts for greece, for example, or that this case will not succeed.
member of the commission. − mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur, ms merkies, for this excellent report. i want to thank the shadow rapporteurs on the committee on industry, research and energy committee (itre), as well as the members of the seven committees that delivered their opinions to itre. their support for all the various aspects of innovation union will be crucial to its success. innovation has been placed at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i would like to take this opportunity to illustrate in concrete terms what innovation union will mean for different people. we will encourage and support better collaboration between business and academia through the creation of knowledge alliances to develop new curricula that address innovation skills gaps. for europe’s researchers, we will take measures to boost cross-border cooperation and remove obstacles to research and mobility, completing the european research area by 2014. ultimately, as ms merkies put it, we have to merge albert einstein and steve jobs and keep him or her in europe: we must be seen to be attractive and dynamic, and unfettered by unnecessary red tape. for our small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and entrepreneurs, innovation union is working to create conditions on intellectual property rights (ipr), standard setting and access to finance that will be much more conducive to innovation. on 13 april 2011 we presented two legislative proposals on ipr, under enhanced cooperation, which will reduce the cost of patents by up to 80%. a single european patent will be valid in 25 member states, and, if you want to build a start-up or you need access to finance, the commission will ensure by 2012 that venture capital funds established in any member state can function and invest freely elsewhere in the eu.innovation union will also champion the best examples of public sector innovation, and the private and public sectors can learn from each other’s best practice. public procurement represents 17% of the eu’s gdp, an enormous potential market for innovation. so we encourage member states and regions to set aside budgets for public procurement of innovative products and services. finally, what about the average taxpayer? well, innovation union will make the best use of public money. this means prioritising smart fiscal consolidation, despite severe budget constraints. investment in education, research and innovation has the potential to create more wealth and jobs than it costs, and investment in innovation will help us tackle the great challenges that society faces. that brings me to the partnerships which will provide a framework for aligning instruments and resources, bringing all the key actors together. they aim to cover the whole innovation chain, from supporting excellent r&d to making sure that we have the conditions in place to bring the results of that r&d to the market successfully. we are delighted that parliament gave such strong support on 11 november 2010 to the concept of the innovation partnerships. parliament’s president has been invited to nominate four members to the steering board, and we look forward to that. last but not least, ms merkies mentioned social innovation, which has been discussed by itre. the commission is committed to launching a european social innovation pilot that will provide expertise and a networked virtual hub for social entrepreneurs and for the public and third sectors. let me stop there, because i think tonight is all about hearing what the members of parliament have to say, so that after the debate, when we go away with the report, we will be able to respond to those comments.
the draftsman of the opinion of the international trade committee. - my colleagues! the need for innovation in the european union economy has been particularly heightened by the financial crisis, and the commission's proposals for an 'innovation union' are therefore particularly welcome. successful innovation policy must be based on three pillars: policy support, funding and sound legislation. as emphasised in the opinion of the international trade committee, the main objective of the 'innovation union' should be long-term development and competitiveness based on the development of technology, knowledge and education. by increasing funding for research and development to 3% of gdp, structural reforms should ensure its efficient use and access by small and medium-sized enterprises. the entrepreneurs' perception of innovation is an important aspect. because they include not only high technology and discovery, but also social, business, management, marketing and other innovations that require only a more efficient use of knowledge, a more active cooperation with universities and research centres. it is important to identify the strengths of the studies, while avoiding the strong prioritization of all studies being one or the same. european patents are currently 15 times more expensive than us patents, so the creation of a single european patent should be accelerated and its costs reduced. many of the new member states produce valuable inventions which, because of lack of funding, researchers are forced to sell to other countries and companies for a few thousand, although their real value is measured in millions. as regards patents obtained through public means, it is important that universities and individuals be able to share the intellectual property thus acquired. the european union must strengthen its protection of intellectual property in order to protect our technologies and knowledge from piracy and counterfeiting, especially when dealing with third countries. governments, on the other hand, need to develop programmes to develop innovation. we may not be able to outperform china and india in terms of research, but we can certainly offer quality, better conditions for the realization of ideas. thank you.
the committee on employment and social affairs has drawn up an opinion. - mr president, in the committee on employment and social affairs we have stressed that innovation is of crucial importance for economic and employment development at a time when europe is looking for a way out of the economic crisis. r & d investment tends to contract during economic crises, although it has been shown that those companies and member states that invest the most during these times have the greatest relative advantage in the market and also recover from the recession the fastest. it is therefore essential for member states to meet the eu 2020 target of allocating at least 3% of their gdp to r&d. the committee stresses that innovation policy should be seen in a broad sense, not only as technical innovation but also, as in the past, more as social and service innovation, which helps to solve societal challenges, including the challenges of ageing and health care, as well as changes in the environment, climate and energy efficiency. a good example of this is the european innovation partnership pilot project on active and healthy ageing. information and communication technologies are important in all innovation activities. the acquisition of ict skills requires improving the quality of education and supporting lifelong learning, as well as enabling those already in employment to continuously update their skills. the majority of innovation-enabling initiatives originate in the business world, which requires closer cooperation with universities and research institutes. on the other hand, the commercial exploitation of research results from universities is too slow or too limited in the eu. we therefore need enterprise cemeteries linking the business and academic worlds, whose task is to promote the commercial exploitation of research results. the committee on employment considers it essential to create a european research area, which should remove obstacles to the mobility of researchers and create a progressive european research infrastructure, thus preventing brain drain from europe to the rest of the world. rather, europe should be a region that attracts researchers from elsewhere in europe.
for the alde group mr president, i am delighted that this morning's plenary session is devoted to cultural matters, and it is very important that we speak about them. not just one morning, but more broadly, but it's good that we're around these things now. it is quite a challenge to put all these reports together in two minutes and give some estimates, but perhaps a few thoughts on each. it is quite true that the zver youth on the move initiative has proved to be a success story, and the zver report deservedly takes this matter further and further. i believe that this will be the way to write many success stories in european history and for young people in the future. it is important to ensure that we have training programmes throughout europe in which young people can take part and that multiculturalism can be strengthened. it is also very important to take account of what honeyball says in his own report on early childhood education. i would speak more of early education than early instruction, because the process of human growth is important, the making grow, and teaching is one part of that whole. if we can raise our own children and youth to be human and to be balanced members of society, that is a great thing. it can be said that homes certainly have an important role to play in this, but it is also very important, as the report has rightly pointed out, to take care of the role of early childhood educators and the care that children and young people especially need today. the schaake report on the eu's external relations states that we need a greater understanding of cultures when we make foreign policy, it is very important. we have many sad examples of failure in foreign policy when cultural backgrounds and cultural contexts are not known, and it is therefore very important to include culture strongly in the management of external relations. i would like to conclude by saying that i think that the sarajevo initiative, which was put forward today by mr pack, is quite true that decisions were taken five years ago on the cultural capital, but just as in science, the paradigm must always be challenged anew. it is perhaps time to challenge this point a little and try to find a solution that will bring about a change in sarajevo. i believe that it could bring new added value to the european capital of culture programme and to the european union as a whole. i would like to conclude by saying that we should look at the bigger picture of cultural policy and understand its importance for the whole of the european union. the internal market and foreign and security policy cannot be sustained unless we have a strong cultural foundation underpinning them. culture is the basis of everything, the basis of the future of the european union as a whole, and it is therefore important to look after it, not just in terms of gdp figures, but as a value in itself for people and societies and thus for the union as a whole.
mr president, i would like to say a few words about the good initiative of zver, young people on the move. this is one of the success stories of european union policy. even those who are critical of europe or the eu believe that it is through youth mobility programmes that added value has been achieved for the benefit of all. the bologna process, the copenhagen process and so on are good examples of this. the zver report further reinforces this already positive trend and creates new opportunities and conditions for young europeans to study in different european countries, and in this way we can genuinely exchange best practice. i believe that in the long term this will be one of the strong foundations for the growth of the european economy, but more important than economic growth is to remember that through this process people, young people, can also grow as individuals and as europeans.
mr president, it is very important that attention be paid to early childhood and early education. in this context, i welcome the honeyball report, for which i was the shadow rapporteur. however, in response to this excellent report, i would like to say that i would like to see more emphasis on parenting than on education when we talk about young children. the first years of life provide all the basic conditions for human life, and it can therefore be said that if there is a safe basic education, if there is a safe environment, then the child has the chance of succeeding in the future. the emphasis must therefore be on education rather than training. education will certainly come later, but as has been said, this report goes through the various models that exist in europe, starting from the premise that we should ensure from early childhood that no european young person is excluded, but that everyone has the opportunity to live a good and healthy life.
mr president, as far as common corporate taxation is concerned, it is a very challenging issue for the european union, because the 27 member states are very different. their economic structures are very different, but it is of course very important, when we are in the internal market, to ensure that smes, which are indeed the backbone of the european economy, have a level playing field. this is not the case at present, and it is therefore very important that we now have a survey of small and mediumsized enterprises. it is clear that, for example, when i come from finland, finnish companies are very far from the heart of the internal market and, therefore, logistical costs, transport costs, raise the price of products considerably. we therefore need various forms of compensation, also within the european union, through taxation, but also in other ways, so that competition can be more equal for all. it is very important that such a report be drawn up and that efforts be made to take account of the northern, remote regions, so that they can compete on an equal footing with other european companies.
mr president, the daily life of a domestic worker is often precarious, undervalued and informal. they are treated unequally, unfairly and badly. in europe, domestic workers are generally migrant workers, many of whom are illegal immigrants. they're not on the books, they're at risk of exploitation, they're at the mercy of their employers. the ilo convention on domestic workers and the common rules of the game are the primary means of ensuring that the human rights and labour and social rights of domestic workers are respected, monitored and developed. it would be naive to say that there are no illegal domestic workers in europe. this is modern day slavery. these, often women, are the most vulnerable. they are afraid to complain about mistreatment, violence, or sexual abuse. we are not only exploiting those from outside the eu, we are also exploiting our own citizens. improving the situation of domestic workers should be one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy.
mr president, the report was worth supporting. europe has rightly been considered an economic giant, and europe could equally well be a cultural giant. the eu is a community of values, united and diverse in its cultural diversity. culture is a human right and every person and every nation has the right to enjoy it. culture is also linked to people's well-being and sharing. the eu's cultural policy can also be used to link up with countries with which no other partnership has been agreed. the support of the cultural dimension is also particularly important in the north african countries which are now building a new, more democratic society. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. the european union should also be able to provide the necessary support to the countries of the region, in particular through the european regional development fund.
it is very important, mr president, that the cultural dimension be included in the debate on foreign policy. i think this is because, now that the middle east is in turmoil, it has been noticed that we have forgotten the cultural dimension for decades, for example in the european union's relations with syria. since 1963 there has been an exceptional law in syria which has given the right to execute people without trial, but few european delegations, the european union delegation, have raised this issue. trade and finance have taken precedence over human rights. as mr repo said in his previous speech here, human rights are also a key element in the cultural dimension of the european union. this is important to remember. human rights, democracy, this hard core, we must promote more strongly in european foreign policy, and not just look at things purely through the lens of the economy.
mr president, first of all, i would like to say, in relation to the sanchez-schmidt report, that it is particularly important that the european union now recognises the contribution of creative industries and culture to the growth of the european union's economy. it is indeed significant, with 2.6% of gdp coming directly from the creative sectors, and it employs 3.1% of the european union's workforce. it can therefore be said that it has been a growing field in recent years and decades and will continue to be so. when we talk about the cultural dimension, it is also important to remember that it is more than just economic growth. it is also a growth in humanity, and this should never be forgotten when we talk about culture. in this respect, the impact of culture should not always be measured by the growth of gross domestic product alone, but it must be understood that man is born not only to increase gdp on a squirrel wheel, but also to live a life of unique human dignity, and for this too the conditions and prerequisites must be created. in this respect, we as members of the european union should bear this in mind, because too often the union opens up to us only as an economic cooperation body and we forget the bigger picture. as sarajevo's capital of culture in 2014, i would like to say that i hope this project will come to fruition. it has been a common idea and project for us in the committee on culture, because 2014 marks the centenary of the outbreak of the first world war, which began in sarajevo. it is a symbol of the development that has taken place in europe. we want to be witness to the fact that 2014 will be the year of a long period of peace, or a continuation of the long period of peace that has already begun, but also that the baltic states will be more closely involved in this development of peace and stability. this would certainly have a wider significance for the whole of the wider europe, for pan-europe.
mr president, as the 2014 sarajevo capital of culture, i would like to say that i hope this project will come to fruition. it has been a common idea and project for us in the committee on culture, because 2014 marks the centenary of the outbreak of the first world war, which began in sarajevo. in a way, it symbolizes the developments that have taken place in europe, and we want to be witness to the fact that 2014 will be the year that will be followed by a long period of peace, or that will continue this long period of peace that has already begun, but also that the baltic states will be more closely involved in this development of peace and stability. this would certainly have a wider significance for the whole of the wider europe, for pan-europe.
author. − mr president, the conflict in sri lanka may be over, but many questions remain unanswered. an end to a conflict does not necessarily mean that the conflict is over in people’s minds. victory is not the same as peace. it takes time, effort and especially commitment and strong will to overcome the scars of a conflict. reconciliation is imperative. justice is vital for a new beginning. therefore, the sri lankan government should immediately start investigations on the violations of international humanitarian and human rights law. both sides need to be investigated. international conventions to which sri lanka is a party require investigations on the alleged violations and the prosecution of those who are responsible. only by means of an open and honest investigation and through justice can the sri lankan people heal the wounds of a long and difficult conflict and continue their lives in peace. the alde group applauds un secretary-general ban ki-moon’s report and initiative on sri lanka. we fully support the un recommendations.
author. − mr president, on 23 may 2009 the un secretary-general ban ki-moon and the president of sri lanka, rajapaksa, signed a joint statement in which sri lanka agreed to guarantee accountability for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity during the war which ended in may 2009. after this agreement was not honoured by the sri lankan government, the un secretary-general appointed a panel of experts to advise him on modalities for an accountability process. the report, which was published very recently, made credible allegations that both government forces and the liberation tigers of tamil eelam failed to respect the norms of international law. the report stressed the need for accountability on both sides. the sri lankan government has dismissed the panel’s report, calling it illegal and biased. i believe that it is an objective reason for further investigations. at a time when the creditable and legitimate work of inernational human rights bodies is being discredited, it is for this house to step up and defend international law. war crimes must never go unpunished, no matter where they occur.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the sri lankan civil war lasted 25 years and ended in defeat for the tamil tigers. in all, the war claimed 90,000 lives. the final stages were particularly bloody, and in the final months thousands of people died. the recent un report says that it is very likely that both the tamil tigers and government forces were ultimately responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian and human rights law. the tamil tigers are suspected of shooting civilians who tried to escape. the government, in turn, killed civilians with a mortar fire. these are both serious crimes that cannot be overlooked. it is therefore important that the un should be allowed to carry out an impartial and open inquiry into the matter. unfortunately, the sri lankan government has been very reluctant and the investigation cannot be carried out without its approval unless the member states unanimously demand it. it would be extremely important for sri lanka to take a constructive and cooperative approach to this. responsibility is essential to the process of reconciliation. the eu must support sri lanka's efforts to strengthen its responsibility.
mr president, commissioner, the un report shows that in the last bloody months of the 25 year civil war in sri lanka, thousands of civilians were killed by artillery fire from government forces. similarly, the un reported that tamil rebels used over 300,000 civilians as human shields and shot civilians who tried to escape. so both sides in the war committed serious violations of human rights and international law. it is important now that the peace negotiations are under way that an impartial and independent investigation of war crimes can be carried out by the un. the resolution is balanced in its wording and encourages the parties to reconciliation and peace building.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, democracy and respect for human rights and the rule of law are an integral part of the new association agreement which is currently being negotiated between azerbaijan and the european union. without respect for these principles, it is impossible to see how azerbaijan can have a common future with its european partners. let me also join those colleagues who point out that we need to be very clear and objective when we talk to our partners in the eastern partnership countries. we should not believe that we can get away with simply bashing belarus, because there are severe problems in azerbaijan and in several other eastern partnership countries, and i hope that the forthcoming study commissioned by the subcommittee on human rights will give some guidance on how we should talk to these countries about their human rights situation.
mr president, commissioner, it is quite absurd that our euronest partners, azerbaijan and belarus, are treated here as two urgent human rights cases in succession. the partnership should be based on respect for european values. according to amnesty international, the azerbaijani authorities are trying to suppress critical voices in order to prevent wider protests, such as those seen in the arab world in recent months. in recent weeks, the azerbaijani police have broken up several demonstrations in the country and also arrested opposition figures on trumped-up charges, often related to drugs. the cases of savalan and other recently arrested protesters demonstrate the weakness of fundamental rights in azerbaijan and the extent to which the authorities have prepared to silence the voices of dissent.
mr president, freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are universal fundamental rights, they are the cornerstones of a democratic society. it is sad that harassment and intimidation and arrests are used as a means of suppressing the diversity of civil society. azerbaijan is a member of the european convention on human rights and the council of europe and has an obligation to protect and respect the human rights of its citizens. freedom of expression and peaceful demonstrations are denied to bloggers, journalists and civil society activists in azerbaijan. young people are prevented from using new communication technologies and social media and are even punished for their use. this is ironic, because it is precisely the state that would benefit from an active and diverse civil society. the eu should support azerbaijan in developing democracy and human rights in the framework of the neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, belarus is not the last dictatorship in europe. in belarus, you can go to jail for running for office and speaking your mind. the last presidential election was not democratic. and the laws of belarus do not allow for freedom of assembly or freedom of speech. harassment of the opposition and independent human rights groups has already become a chronic problem in the country. a functioning democracy requires the active participation of the opposition and civil society in the political debate. human rights are universal, indivisible and interdependent. belarus has an obligation to protect and respect the human rights of its citizens. belarus must be given full support in developing a functioning democracy and human rights in the framework of the european union's eastern partnership. the eu should consider sanctions and their use, as civil society should not be punished in the current situation in belarus.
mr president, after the presidential elections in december, president lukashenko of belarus has set about decisively to crush the already weak political opposition and independent media. some 40 people who participated in the election protests have been charged with inciting unrest, which carries a maximum sentence of 15 years in prison. in belarus, contrary to the principles of democracy, power is strictly concentrated in the hands of the president. lukashenko is now in his fourth term and has shown over the past 16 years that his moves towards democracy are a very cynical game. the eu's restrictions on belarus are therefore fully justified and should be further strengthened. i strongly support the demand that parliament yesterday made to the international ice hockey federation to withdraw the hosting rights for the 2014 world cup from belarus unless it releases all its political prisoners. the eu should also impose targeted economic sanctions and step up its support for belarusian ngos.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate jo leinen on the excellent and important work she has done on this report. this environmental accounting regulation is very important, as has already been stated here on several occasions, because it finally provides the legal basis for an accounting system integrating environmental and economic statistics which are of major importance for environmental policy and for social policy in general. as regards the scope, it is very important that the first stage of the allocation should be specifically focused on emissions, material flows and environmental taxes. this is well justified. in this respect, the opening of accounts is also likely to be very realistic, taking into account the capacities of the member states. of course, it must be borne in mind that we are already at different levels in the different countries with regard to statistical systems, and it is important that this does not lead to additional bureaucracy, as the commissioner said. as regards the new modules, it is important that they place a strong emphasis on these themes that support the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy.
the committee on budgets has been asked to deliver an opinion. - madam president! - what is it? i would like to thank our excellent commissioner for her strong commitment to research issues and also thank the rapporteur. i have the privilege of serving as the rapporteur for research on the committee on budgets and have a few brief comments from our committee. as a critical first point, i would say that it would be good if the evaluations of this kind were to arrive in time. it makes our job easier, but otherwise, the evaluation is good. the committee on budgets believes that it is important to strengthen the link between research and industry in a better way in the future, simply to take advantage of the potential of new innovations and ideas in practice. we also want to stress that we must dare to take a risk-taking approach. without risk, we cannot achieve the good results. the commissioner himself was also keen to simplify the processes and reduce the bureaucracy. this is incredibly important. last but not least, we would like to recall that the europe 2020 strategy must be implemented already during the seventh framework programme for research.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr richard falbria on his excellent report on the external dimension of social policy, the promotion of labour standards and social rules and the social responsibility of european enterprises. the eu, which is becoming more politically and economically integrated, will increasingly need a social dimension. ensuring basic services, basic safety and decent working conditions for all eu citizens is particularly important now, in the midst of the economic crisis. as the rapporteur has said, the european social policy must also be applied in our relations with third countries. the union must make future trade and investment agreements more closely linked to the ratification, implementation and monitoring of international agreements. the european companies must also be required to be more transparent in their accounts and supply chains, so that the high social values of the european union are not disguised.
mr president, the enlargement of the schengen area is a matter of meeting standards but also of trust. the bulgarian and romanian applications come at an interesting time, when the principle of free movement within the eu has been called into question. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. many schengen countries are already carrying out police checks on flights within the schengen area, among other things, under their national legislation. but this is a different conversation. now, the inspections would no longer be for events, but for phenomena. the issue is sensitive because it calls into question the freedom of movement and... (speaker interrupts speaker)
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a warm thanks to the rapporteur who has done a good job of collecting the views of our house. i think we can all agree on the challenges that we face. the question is only how to get the money, and now we are not just talking about money in the eu but also money in the member states, and that is a balancing act. we have decided in committee to speak in favour of raising the budget for the future by 5%. five percent sounds like a lot, at least if you go back to your own capital and tell them we need five percent more. on the other hand, five percent is quite small when you look at the challenges the eu has, and when you are well aware that the eu has actually got a lot of new tasks that the eu should actually handle properly, and you don't do that without money. but to be credible when asking for more money, we must also dare to look at existing structures and existing costs, and our credibility is greatly enhanced if we can show that we too can re-arrange/prioritize and save before asking for more money. i am now talking about unjustified advantages in agricultural policy, the fact that a large part of the corruption policy is not as successful as it is always said to be, and the fact that the eu has a rather heavy-handed administration in some areas, just take the fact that we are here in strasbourg as an example. these are the kinds of things that we in our group have wanted to highlight as examples that we can discuss, because this is what makes it credible to ask for more money later. we have not always succeeded in this in this report, which also explains why some of my colleagues will be pressing the red button or perhaps the white button in today's vote, even though a large majority of our group supports the report. after all, many are disappointed that we are not able to discuss a new way of disposing of existing money. another issue that we must certainly address is how we finance the eu budget, and our group has been very clear on this. we want a serious discussion on what we call own resources, and this is also important in order to get rid of the unhealthy features of the current financing structure: more rebates, unclear and opaque arrangements, etc. we cannot have this in the future and i hope that we can have a constructive dialogue with the council on the future. this is a crucial issue for the future of the eu budget.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report and the work he has done in this sure committee. one of the main objectives of the future financial frameworks is to create the tools to take the eu 2020 strategy to the grassroots level. this report recognises that without a strong cohesion and agricultural policy with a strong budget, this objective will not be achieved. cohesion policy, for example, is the only concrete instrument with which we can develop innovation, create jobs and growth. we need reforms, but we can also make them within these policy sectors. i therefore urge you, commissioner, to maintain the existing budgetary levels for both the regional and agricultural policies in the next financial year, in line with parliament's position. i am also pleased that the report also takes account of areas with special conditions, such as the sparsely populated northern regions. they will also need their own additional budget for the coming financial period.
in writing. mr president, in times of economic difficulty, citizens expect more than ever from the eu to deliver on its promises. better and simpler legislation is needed to serve the interests of europeans. we need to cut down on over-regulation. there is no need to prepare european legislation unless there is a real need for it. the future eu budget must be more responsive to the everyday problems of citizens. the budget must support growth and jobs. but above all it must create european added value. mr president, the commission is due to publish its proposal for the eu budget after 2014 at the end of this month. the economic crisis has forced eu member states to make difficult decisions on their own budgets. the eu budget should not be increased during crises either. on the contrary, it needs to be operated on. i hope that the many absurdities connected with the eu budget will finally be put to rest. the monthly european parliament truck ride between brussels and strasbourg costs european taxpayers well over eur 200 million a year. there's better things to do with this money. the various tax reductions for the uk, sweden, austria, the netherlands and germany must be removed from the eu budget altogether. the united kingdom alone will have a rebate of some three billion this year on the basis of the rebate agreed in 1984. it is time for the eu and its budget to be reformed. the money of european taxpayers must be better spent and bring real european added value to the member states. the administration, the bureaucracy and the unnecessary eu legislation are not.
mr president, i must congratulate the rapporteur and the committee on transport and, of course, the whole of parliament on the very good legislation. this was the result of a compromise which i was happy to support. i think it is extremely important that heavy transport is included when we talk about climate change and sustainable development. in this way we can show the public that we are really concerned about the problems caused by heavy vehicle emissions, especially during peak hours, on busy roads. one of the things i accepted here as a compromise was that this money which is charged here for heavy transport can go to rail or shipping. it may be possible in some cases, but i hope that when these decisions are taken at national level, it will be taken into account that heavy traffic is the one who pays these costs. this money could be used to improve, rehabilitate and build roads, and thus also benefit heavy transport.
mr president, it is of course very important that the same principles can be applied to all the member states of the european union. in this respect, the schengen agreement is a step forward towards such closer cooperation, towards greater freedom of movement, but it must of course be borne in mind that freedom of movement must also entail a certain degree of responsibility. it is now to be hoped that when romania and bulgaria join the schengen area, the problems that have arisen at their borders will indeed be addressed and sufficient resources will be directed there to ensure that this illegal immigration and other forms of immigration can be prevented. the basic situation is, of course, that there cannot be two-tiered people in the european union, but that the same rules must apply to everyone. we must also ensure that the same formalities are followed in these countries as elsewhere. we need resources because we know the problems and the threats that exist there.
i am glad to have voted in favour of this report too, mr president, and i thank mr audya for his excellent work. two things: funding is extremely important, there could be a little more ambition in saying that this level is credible and necessary. we must increase funding to achieve the necessary growth in europe. i myself was listening to a research group in this country a while ago that received funding through this programme. they're doing cell research that's pretty close to being a breakthrough, so they can even develop cancer drugs. however, they had no information on whether the funding would continue. they're pretty much out of it. i think that this funding must be continued and that it must be sufficient. the other thing that is clearly going to be a feedback is that a lot of the work time is going to be bureaucratic. it has to be reduced to get things in the right order of priority.
mr president, i supported the report because european companies are particularly important in international trade. we must always act in accordance with european values and international social and labour standards, also in third countries. corporate social responsibility is only useful as a voluntary model if consumers are provided with reliable and accurate information about the activities of companies, the origin of products and the conditions under which goods are produced and sold. certificates, marks and standards are important to consumers, and image and reputation are directly linked to the success of a company. in the age of social media, it is difficult for consumers to be kept in the dark about a company's practices abroad. responsible entrepreneurship is always the backbone of competitiveness and successful business. the european union must always be at the forefront of promoting social rules. i believe that corporate social responsibility should be integrated into all eu policies and trade agreements.
i voted in favour of the report, mr president, because youth unemployment is a european challenge which affects the whole of society. it is also behind the unrest in the southern mediterranean countries. in the nordic welfare societies, youth unemployment is reflected in, among other things, exclusion and increased drug use among young people. youth is about mobility and job rotation. youth unemployment is serious when young people do not enter the labour market at all because of their low level of education or lack of work experience. a young person with no education or work experience is also not strong in the competition for jobs. we must therefore focus vigorously on providing a comprehensive and quality education, including gender perspectives, in order to tackle the root causes of youth unemployment. we must also remember continuing training, because it is precisely this that promotes lifelong learning and prepares for changes in the labour market.
mr president, a very important report was adopted, of which i would like to mention just a few details. the first was alde amendment no 18, which stated that some specific cuts could be made in the cap depending on the nature of the current reforms. so here we have the alde view on agricultural policy, although the words are beautifully placed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, the other important point on which i voted differently from my group was amendment no 37d, which originally states that the holding of plenary sessions of the european parliament in one place would bring considerable savings. no need to argue about this. it's a savings. it doesn't matter how we vote, we know this is going to save money. i hope that people here will finally understand that the people are really tired of being targeted with cuts, but we are not targeted with cuts. this cannot be explained to the people and this cannot be improved by a vote. this is going to bring about a clear saving, and we have to make that saving.
in writing. − egnos and galileo systems, when completed, will increase security in the environment through a number of applications. these applications also represent a growing global market, from which the eu benefits economically. the development of systems is an essential part of the development of european air transport, as well as the more economical and efficient implementation of road and rail transport. the lack of investment in developing applications and systems in time may be a problem. it would be important to see the benefits for member states of the deployment and development of schemes on schedule.
mr president, the hungarian representative said here that the problem is not the instrument itself, the european arrest warrant, but the legal policy of each member state. now he's putting the headphones on. yes, i think that is a fine lie, because it must now be admitted that the european arrest warrant was originally a problem because it was as if certain legal norms and minimum standards for criminal proceedings were being implemented in all the member states. the truth is that we have only just had the opportunity to create them, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i would like to point out that the european court of human rights has already ruled that in asylum cases, for example, greece cannot be returned because of the poor conditions in prisons. because what happens is that because of the european arrest warrant, you cannot be extradited because the prison conditions in the country that has asked for extradition are terrible. i think the commission must be prepared for that.
madam president, i would like to remind commissioner füle of his very well-appreciated communication on the european neighbourhood policy; and i can hear, commissioner, that you basically concede that we should apply the same principle to russia as well, even if russia is not a part of the eastern neighbourhood. but we should indeed call for what you have termed deep democracy, and we have to work seriously to support civil society in russia. i would like to highlight some points in the joint resolution that the european parliament will adopt tomorrow. we underline the need to maintain close contacts and support programmes for the development of civil society in russia. i would like to inform you, commissioner, that today there is very worrying news from nizhny novgorod, where the summit will be just starting. i have been informed by civil society organisations there that pre-emptive measures have been taken by the law enforcement agencies. attempts have been made to question people who could communicate with the eu representatives, and this is completely unacceptable. even people who work on children’s rights have been warned not to go to nizhny novgorod. the credit cards of the main local organiser of the civil society event – which is, by the way, the first ever linked to an eu-russia summit – have been blocked (for technical reasons, of course), and her car licence plates have mysteriously disappeared. commissioner, i ask that you make sure that the eu representatives at the summit in nizhny novgorod will give recognition and support to the civil society organisations. to this end i, together with my colleague mr schulz, the vice-chair of the joint eu-russia parliamentary committee, have sent a letter to president barroso, vice-president/high representative ashton and president von rompuy.
mr president, as mr posselt has said, europe needs russia and russia needs europe. eu-russia cooperation is important for promoting political, social and economic stability. not just in europe, but worldwide. it is regrettable that the eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement does not meet the needs of cooperation today. the strategic partnership should be strengthened, deepened and extended. however, the promotion of peace and security, the promotion of democratic values and political and economic freedom must continue to be the basis of all eu-russia relations. the partnership on modernisation needs to be deepened and refined, but political dialogue between diplomats alone is simply not enough. we must also make every effort to facilitate contacts between citizens and to increase cooperation in the fields of science, art, culture, education and business.
deputising for the author. − mr president, the volume of complaints regarding misleading directory companies shows that this is a serious problem for smes. rogue business directory companies are both inflicting financial damage and harassing small companies. in the period from 2003 to mid-2008, nearly 14 000 complaints and enquiries were documented. hundreds of letters of complaint are still being received from new victims. the difficulties involved in tracking down activities of this nature undermine the very functioning of the internal market. misleading practices are illegal under the misleading and comparative advertising directive and the unfair commercial practices directive. but there is a lack of effective legal remedies and enforcement. the internal market and consumer protection committee, as the committee responsible for the legislation, has recently taken up this issue with the dutch authorities, drawing their attention to fraudulent practices by a business directory company established in the netherlands. the answer of the dutch authorities clearly shows that member states are mostly concerned about what happens in their own territory. i believe that given the cross-border nature of the problem, more cooperation between member states on enforcement would also be absolutely crucial to stop the fraudulent practices. the commission could itself take a more active role in working together with the member states on cross-border enforcement using existing eu-wide networks to facilitate cooperation between the member states. more emphasis should be placed on effective and dissuasive sanctions against such fraudulent practices in all member states, which would put such directory companies out of business and enable those who run them to be punished. it should be envisaged to extend the scope for the unfair commercial practices directive to encompass all commercial practices in a business-to-consumer relationship, whether aiming at the protection of consumers or competitors. in that way, most if not all unfair business-to-business commercial practices in the retail sector would be covered and governed by the same set of rules as unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices, with which they generally overlap. it is also important to help businesses combat the scam by improving access to information and awareness-raising by improving redress mechanisms. i wish to ask the commissioner: what are the major obstacles for stronger involvement of state authorities in cross-border enforcement cooperation, and what measures does the commission envisage in the fight against rogue directory companies?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many colleagues have already pointed out the shortcomings of these stress tests and the fact that too much is left to the voluntary side, not least the way reactors withstand terrorist attacks. one of the reasons why the weaknesses in stress tests are so regrettable was stated by ms morkūnaitė-mikulėnienė. the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. commissioner oettinger, you are discussing a different debate. commissioner oettinger, i would ask you to listen to me. i would like to ask you, commissioner oettinger, to... so commissioner oettinger, i would ask you to answer this question: if russia agrees to stress tests on its own nuclear power stations according to these criteria that i have just announced, do you believe that this will really improve our security, given that there are several chernobyl-type reactors right on the eu's borders?
in writing. mr president, we are here to discuss the stress tests of nuclear power stations for the sake of fukushima. i remember the april plenary session, when some members seemed to have lost their sense of proportion after the recent accident. some colleagues linked the tsunami's thousands of victims to the damage to the nuclear plant. and the audience was wondering if thousands of victims wasn't enough. the question was, how many nuclear accidents do we need before we have enough evidence? i couldn't believe what i was hearing. still, there are no direct fatalities in fukushima that were caused by radiation. despite one of the largest earthquakes ever recorded in japan and the ensuing one of the largest tsunamis ever recorded, despite the lack of preparation for these, despite the fact that the power plants had not even been upgraded as proposed, despite the fact that the power supply was not secured for emergency situations, and despite other mistakes made by the japanese at the outset, the loss of life was minimal. there is no doubt that the fukushima accident was a disaster. it shouldn't have happened. there will probably be casualties, but they are nothing compared with the deaths caused by coal power, for example. in europe, particulate matter from energy use is already killing 300,000 people a year. so paradoxically, the fukushima accident will have tens of thousands of indirect casualties. they die prematurely because europe is abandoning nuclear power and replacing it with fossil fuels. the air quality is getting worse, which increases cardiovascular disease and threatens the lives of asthmatics. so the real killer of the fukushima accident is coal, which is now being switched to in germany, for example.
i would like to say, mr president, that it is very important for the european union to promote peace and the independence of these two states. it is true that when sudan became independent in 1956, it can be said that since then sudan and south sudan have been in constant war, civil war with each other. it is therefore very important that, after the referendum in which almost 100% of the people, over 98% of the people, wanted independence for south sudan, this peace process and independence process should be taken forward. our task as europeans is, of course, to support democracy, human rights and freedom of expression, these core values. it is important in this respect that we should be doing our part to strengthen these democracies and the independence of south sudan.
mr president, a very important document has now been adopted and i consider it important that we continue our dialogue with russia. russia is an important neighbor to us, and the better our relations, the better. i would like to draw attention to the visa exemption. i myself see it as an important objective, but perhaps we should take a small step forward. as a representative of a neighbouring country, i can tell you that you cannot take too quick steps unless there are readmission agreements that work. of course, russia must be in a position where it is no longer possible to have a double identity, which was previously possible to buy with money, and all these things must be properly handled by russia too, so that we can go visa-free. that is why we should not be in any haste.
mr president, russia is an important partner for the eu and the eu could benefit even more from relations with russia if the approach were genuinely strategic and sufficiently rigorous, also between summits. it's the only way we can get results. three things: firstly, russia's membership of the wto. it's an important milestone that i hope will come true. russia's membership of the wto and free trade are in the interests of both the eu and russia. the development of the investment climate and the rule of law are an essential part of russia's development. secondly, the eu and russia share an important interest in the arctic region. the eu must strengthen its arctic policy. thirdly, visa-free travel between the eu and russia is the right objective. however, russia itself needs to significantly improve its border control and practices and i am in favour of this very practical approach. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i asked to speak on the russia debate and perhaps you will accept that, although the moment has passed, i will say a few words on that. i think it is very important that there should be a dialogue with russia. we need high-level meetings, but as europeans we must also remember what the fundamental task of the european union is. our task is to promote democracy, human rights and freedom of expression in dialogue with the russians. these are the basic values that must be emphasised. when we talk about visa-free travel, it is a future objective, but here too the development of democracy in russia is a priority. when russia develops and goes on the road to democracy and thereby to the realization of human rights and the rule of law, then we can also return to this visa-free status.
mr president, the population of the world's fourth largest island has suffered since the coup in 2009. madagascar is ruled by an illegitimate government, not elected by the people. even madagascar's natural wealth and renewable resources have not contributed to prosperity. the malagasy people live in misery and poverty on their island. repeated violations of human rights, harassment of politicians, religious figures and members of civil society, and repeated arbitrary arrests, looting of churches and intimidation of the press are commonplace in the country. the list could go on and on: media censorship, keeping the people in poverty, illegal arrests, disappearances and torture. in addition to the human suffering of the people, madagascar's biodiversity is also threatened. the island's fauna and flora have evolved in isolation and are irreplaceable and unique on a global scale. the people must be able to decide their own future and the european union must be involved in supporting the malagasy people in every way possible.
mr president, since the change of power in march 2009, the political situation in madagascar has remained unstable and new disturbances have been occurring continuously. the border administration is violating human rights and oppressing its own citizens. in may 2011, the eu-acp group assessed that madagascar urgently needs an interim administration. the attempt to resolve this crisis is being made by the southern african development community (sadc) inviting 11 malagasy political parties to a summit in botswana. however, the three main opposition parties have rejected this roadmap, as it still allows rajoelina to remain in power until the next elections. rajoelina has so far failed every other contract she's ever made. so why trust him again? the eu and the international community must therefore intervene and bring this illegal government in rajoelina to an end.
mr president, the political instability and the deterioration of the humanitarian situation following the coup d'état in march are increasingly affecting the daily lives of the malagasy people. as a result of the political crisis, they are facing increasing difficulties in accessing basic food, water, sanitation and health services. the present rulers have illegally monopolized executive, legislative, and judicial power, and have taken control of the media. the country's security services have been guilty of violence against civilians. a number of active citizens have been imprisoned for political reasons and former political leaders have been forced to flee the country. the negotiations under way must be pushed forward quickly and a way must be found to restore constitutional order. human rights violations require an impartial investigation. the eu must increase humanitarian aid to madagascar and targeted sanctions must be maintained until the political crisis is resolved.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank all those colleagues who have reminded me that thinking on human rights can only be based on a non-discriminatory treatment of all violations of human rights, wherever they happen. this also applies whether they happen inside the european union or outside the european union. i believe that the time has come for parliament to take a second look at the possible involvement of the eu member states in these renditions and secret detention centres. i do not think that anyone should be afraid to face the truth and certainly parliament could, with a new report on this issue, bring some daylight to the issue and also do away with unjustified claims and suspicions. as was mentioned this morning, the human rights commissioner of the council of europe, whom i very much admire, mr thomas hammarberg, explained to us that this is not a closed story, that it is still going on, and that he would very much wish for parliament to cooperate with the council of europe on this important issue.
mr president, i am sure we all agree that the eu must continue to work closely together to combat international terrorism. but we must make it clearer that the war on terrorism cannot be fought at the expense of human rights and other fundamental values. the eu has long opposed torture and the death penalty, and this is also true in the case of al-nashir. two important principles must be borne in mind: an absolute no to the death penalty and the fact that the war on terrorism must also be a war on the causes of terrorism. as you know, our transatlantic relations are based on widely shared values, such as universal human rights and due process. that is why the united states must review its military courts, close guantanamo and refrain from torture in all cases.
i must say, mr president, that in part this debate and political debate amongst ourselves may not have served the purpose of this resolution in the best possible way and has shown that, nevertheless, in this chamber and unanimously in the eu in general, we want to defend the right of every person to a fair trial and on the one hand we are against the death penalty. we categorically oppose the death penalty, regardless of the crimes the accused may have committed. as has been made clear in many speeches here, the charges against al-nashir are very serious. he's being accused of terrorist acts that have killed dozens of people. so we want to say with this resolution that we do not approve of his actions. we do not support terrorism, but we want to defend the right of every person to a fair trial and we call for the abolition of the death penalty.
mr president, the three criminal charges against mr tymoshenko are such that he himself has stated that they are purely politically motivated. it should also be recalled that in addition to tymoshenko, several other former members of his cabinet have also been accused or suspected of corruption. as ojuland here, i believe, said earlier, we are not a court. we are not deciding whether these people are guilty or not, but instead we want to be reminding how important it is that these trials can in no way be selective and that the proceedings must be open and non-discriminatory. i can say that i want to thank lady ashton, who has already expressed her concern in may about these accusations against the ukrainian opposition leadership and their possible political intentions. we must continue along this path and ensure that judicial proceedings in ukraine do not become selective and anti-opposition.
mr president, the former prime minister of ukraine, yulia tymoshenko, has had to answer to a number of corruption charges during the spring, and in february a travel ban prevented her from coming to brussels to meet us. if tymoshenko is found guilty, he faces up to ten years in prison. however, the background and context raise some awkward questions and concerns about the partly politically motivated nature of the charges. our resolution rightly highlights the increasingly selective nature of the charges against the leaders of the political opposition and stresses the need to ensure transparency in the investigations and the judicial process. the fight against corruption and the strengthening of the rule of law are not only prerequisites for deepening eu-ukraine relations, but also indispensable for consolidating democratic development in ukraine. the new political leadership of ukraine must also show responsibility and embark on the reforms that were left unfinished after the orange revolution.
in writing. mr president, this report was a victory for the defenders of finnish and european agriculture. because of our northern location, we in finland have significant natural disadvantages for agriculture and it is therefore important that our national subsidies can remain unchanged. the parliament's position is a strong message to the commission as it prepares its proposal for the reform of the agricultural policy. restrictions on existing national aid cannot be accepted after that.
in writing. reforming the eu's common agricultural policy is one of the most important tasks of this parliament. the albert dess report we have on hand is a good basis for further reform. however, we need a wider debate to achieve the goal of an environmentally friendly, resource-efficient and diversified agriculture. the answer to the global problems of agriculture is not to be found in increasing european production but in a broader equation that takes account of economic, social and environmental issues. instead of a short-sighted agricultural policy, we need a food policy that takes account of the entire food chain from start to finish. this is the best way of responding to the serious and comprehensive challenges facing modern agriculture in the 21st century.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i think that the events we have been able to follow this week, both in the council and in the countries facing very serious economic problems, show once again why the package we are now discussing is so important. if we fail to move forward on these issues, the problems will continue rather than be solved. i also think it is important to remember what happened in 2005 when we should have acted and shown that it is not okay to break the common lockdown rules. they didn't, but they changed the rules. now it's time to make this right. this package is important. i would like to thank my colleagues very much. we've worked hard together. as has been said many times, we are very close to the target, but at the same time we must be able to vote today and in july. i would also like to thank andrás kármán from the hungarian presidency, who has done a great job. we really appreciate it. as i said, i would also like to thank my colleagues and especially elisa ferreira. we have done a great job of creating a new kind of macroeconomic surveillance, complementing the work being done to keep the single currency liquid. that is something europe needs. let's go back to the year 2005. the european parliament is still demanding that we reach a solution with regard to what we call the reversed qualified majority. why would you do that? we have found that if we do not have a sufficiently automated decision-making system in the council, the necessary decisions will not be taken. we can't afford that anymore. we still have an open question here, but i hope that the council will be able to have a serious discussion about what this is all about. the european council is now meeting on thursday and friday. it is not possible for reasons of prestige to avoid making decisions on matters that everyone knows are necessary. nor can it be that some of the larger member states think they can agree on things in advance and then the position is locked. the council shall take the actual decisions and the legislation shall be adopted in consultation with the european parliament. the council now has the opportunity to take wise decisions and i am sure that the european parliament can help to find the right one. as regards the macroeconomic part, i would first like to emphasize that, thanks to the work we have done in parliament, we have a proposal which we have agreed with the council and which is both sufficiently transparent and which contains a sufficiently automatic solution. i believe that this solution will also give us confidence in the future in terms of euro cooperation and the possibility of correcting economic problems in a single country that could otherwise endanger the whole euro area. i think it is good that in our report we are creating a system for dealing with countries that are breaking their commitments, that is to say a requirement that the problems must be corrected immediately. the first time a promise is broken, the country is forced to pay what is called a pledge, an interest-bearing deposit as we have called it in english. this is necessary. we cannot give such a signal that one promises to do a certain thing and then does not do it, with impunity. unfortunately, that was the original proposal. i'm glad we were able to make it right. this is a matter of principle. at the same time, we have also tackled the problem of cheating, of deceiving other countries, which we have called fraud. this is also very important. i think the european parliament has done a good job in this area. as several speakers have pointed out, this is a very important vote to be held tomorrow. i think it's going to be okay. i hope that at the end of the week and the week after that the european council can have a serious discussion about what we can do to reach an agreement. we in parliament will do the same. then we can get the legislation europe so badly needs. it is absolutely essential if we are to continue to have a single currency.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, before i go into the substance, i would like to express my sincere appreciation to the chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs and all representatives of the political groups who actively participated in the process for all their valuable contributions. i am equally thankful to the commission, and the commissioner himself, for their efforts to facilitate discussions, not only during the trilogues here in parliament but within the council too. the six legislative texts on economic governance have been the number one priority of the hungarian presidency. i must emphasise that it was not the individual decision of the presidency to designate this file as the top priority. the commission’s initiative has also been supported by the heads of state and government of the 27 member states. if we want to build a stronger euro, this governance package is an essential building block in that process. the world economy, including europe, has experienced the worst crisis since the great depression and we have had to draw the necessary conclusions. we have to realise that the shock would have long-lasting effects unless we eliminate the core roots of the crisis. many of the lessons to be learned are addressed by the six legislative proposals put forward by the commission last september. more emphasis will be put on prevention in order to avoid the need for harmful procyclical policies in bad economic times. so far the stability and growth pact (sgp) has concentrated on deficit but this has not prevented the accumulation of high debt, so from now on more attention will be paid to the debt criteria. the lesson was learned that procedures have not been stringent and automatic enough. that is why we are also addressing these questions here, in order to strengthen the credibility of the pact. we have also realised that coordination of fiscal policies through the sgp might not be sufficient in a union sharing a single currency so we have agreed to introduce a new mechanism to tackle macroeconomic imbalances, which will be treated on the same footing as fiscal imbalances. in order to better and more deeply reflect the requirements of the treaty in national procedures of member states, we are about to adopt rules improving the quality of national budgetary frameworks. i am confident that the objectives of both parliament and the council are the same, namely to strengthen the economic governance of the eu and the euro area, prevent future crises and build a stronger framework for economic governance in the euro area and the eu as a whole. after an intensive round of trilogues with the rapporteurs and discussions at the council, the council modified its general approach on monday. the result of this process was communicated to the european parliament by a letter sent the next day, 21 june. i share the view that during the trilogues the quality of the text has improved a lot, and that the package has become stronger and more coherent. this is especially the case in terms of increased transparency and accountability and the more stringent and automatic application of the procedures. firstly, let me mention the major elements as regards increased transparency and accountability. we are to describe the european semester in the legal text including the ample involvement of parliament in the process. we have added provisions specifying the process of economic dialogue among european institutions including the european parliament, the council and individual member states. the european parliament would be involved on the same footing as the council in the setting up and functioning of the scoreboard of indicators for an alert mechanism in the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances. regarding the governance cycle and the surveillance procedure, we fully respect the very important role of relevant national stakeholders, including social partners. secondly, turning to the issue relating to a more stringent and automatic application of the procedures, let me mention the following: an additional sanction, an interest-bearing deposit for member states in the excessive imbalance procedure, would be introduced. this has been a missing link in the procedures and it completes the procedure in a very logical way, similar to that provided for in the budgetary surveillance. an additional fine for member states falsifying their fiscal statistics is also provided for, at the initiative of the parliament. the application of reverse qualified majority voting is expanded to the recommendation on prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances. moreover, in the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact, we make provision for a review of the expansion of reverse qualified majority voting. at the same time, the already existing comply-or-explain procedure would be enhanced. in deciding on the staff in the sgp, the council is expected, as a rule, to follow the recommendations and proposals of the commission or to explain its position publicly. the presidency believes that the compromise reached during the trilogues reflects a good, balanced and comprehensive approach. we think that all parties have a strong interest in reaching a swift agreement. i regret that the proposal put forward to the plenary is different from the compromise we arrived at after a series of negotiation rounds and does not take into account the final compromise offer of the council. at the same time, i am grateful for your wise approach that the parliament still leaves open the possibility to have a first reading agreement shortly. it is high time that europe joined forces and the union is ready to live up to expectations. all the markets and investors are vigilant and would like to see whether we can deliver or not. the swift and timely adoption of the package is a must for all of us.
vice-president of the commission. − president, honourable members, let me first thank the chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs sharon bowles, rapporteurs corien wortmann-kool, elisa ferreira, vicky ford, sylvie goulard, diogo feio and carl haglund, as well as the shadow rapporteurs who all played a major part in the negotiations. the chair, the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs have all represented this house with great distinction. i also highly appreciate the outstanding role played by state secretary andrás kármán, who represented the hungarian presidency with such skill and determination. and i dare to say that i am very proud of my team in the commission and i will thank them once we have reached the destination, with your help of course. i warmly welcome the texts that you have finalised. in the course of the trilogues, parliament’s negotiators have improved the commission’s proposals in many important respects. and you have gained a good many important improvements from the council. the commission supports the texts which you are about to vote on, and we can welcome and agree on all of your amendments. as we know, the council agrees with almost all of them. but it did so with some exceptions which present quite a challenge – let me come back to that in a moment. there is no time to set out all the gains made by parliament in these negotiations: my staff have made me a summary list of no less than 50 major improvements won by you. for instance, you have codified the european semester, you have set up a structured economic dialogue, providing for a prominent role for parliament throughout the european semester. you have achieved the opportunity for detailed discussion of country-specific situations at every key decision-making stage of the policy cycle, including confirmation of parliament’s right to initiate dialogue with individual member states. in all parts of the legislation you have won a better information flow to parliament and more transparency. you have got a commitment from the commission to do a study on euro securities within six months of the entry into force of this legislation. this will be accompanied by a commission declaration, the text of which you have seen, setting out the scope for that report. i will come back to that as well. the commission will also commit itself in this declaration to reviewing the intergovernmental nature of the european stabilisation mechanism by mid-2014. you have got reverse qualified majority voting in a number of important cases – to improve the automaticity of decision-making – as the rule in the corrective arm of the pact, where 24 member states out of 27 now find themselves unfortunately. you have also won an equal role for parliament in determining the scoreboard for detecting possible macroeconomic imbalances, and you have inserted firm guarantees on social dialogue, respect for national traditions on collective agreements, wage formation, and the role of social partners, which we fully share. there are going to be tough fines for statistical fraud and guarantees of independence for national statistical authorities. you have introduced earlier sanctions in the excessive imbalances procedure. i could go on and on. in your first legislative encounter with ecofin as a co-legislator in economic policy, you achieved almost all of your most important objectives. this is a very good result for parliament and for europe. on euro securities, in the context of this package i will only confirm what i said at the trilogue on 15 june. the commission intends to present a report to parliament and the council on the setting up of a system of common issuance of european sovereign bonds, or euro securities, under joint and several liability, in line with article 8a(5) of the regulation on the enforcement of budgetary surveillance in the euro area and within six months of the entry into force of that regulation. these euro securities would aim to strengthen fiscal discipline and increase stability through markets as well as, by taking advantage of the increase in liquidity, ensuring that the member states enjoying the highest credit standards would not suffer from higher interest rates. the report will, if appropriate, be accompanied by legislative proposals. in other words, in our view such a report on euro securities goes hand in glove with and only makes sense with the prospective reinforcement of economic governance in line with this package now under deliberation. let me say a few words on the next steps. i am worried. should the package not be agreed, neither the council nor parliament should think that they can successfully shift the responsibility onto the other. that will not work. people watching the decision-making from outside are not interested in the smallest detail. if we fail – and i say we and i really mean us all – they will simply say that ‘europe’ has failed. europe would fail and people’s trust in the capacity of europe to address their real problems would suffer a huge blow. moreover, neither institution should imagine even for a moment that – whether for tactical or substantive reasons – they might get a better deal in the second reading. the presidency has very skilfully extracted compromises from the council that would most likely not appear on the table again if a first reading agreement could not be achieved. actually only one issue remains open: the scope of reverse qualified majority voting. i believe you are all aware of the efforts we have made. the commission supports reverse qualified majority voting. so does the ecb and a number of member states, but not all of them and not in all places. the council has already agreed to reverse qualified majority voting in five out of six decisions where it is legally possible. on the remaining one, there is a disagreement between parliament and the council. i believe a solution can and must be found. therefore i appeal to you to seek a constructive solution on the remaining point in the next few days and i appeal to the council too, to respond with a constructive approach on their part. i can reassure you that the commission will work until the last minute, the last second, to find a satisfactory solution. reinforced economic governance in europe is simply too important to fail on this final remaining issue. let us recall that the council is about to sign the treaty on the european stability mechanism (esm) which focuses on correction. but the esm will only complement the new framework for reinforced economic surveillance, which focuses on prevention and is of primary essence because it will substantially reduce the probability of crises such as we have experienced emerging in the future. let me conclude with a simple message. if there is no agreement this week and no vote by the latest in july, it will be a very bad deal for europe and for europe’s citizens. and it would only result in frustration, bitterness and a worse outcome for everyone if we must come back to these files in september. you have agreed on 99.9% of the substance. i now ask both sides to go the last few centimetres to reach an agreement with the other. it is of paramount importance, since this package really is the cornerstone of our comprehensive response to the crisis that is still ongoing. it is absolutely crucial for the credibility of the european union to conclude the package before the summer break, and then move on and put it into effective use.
for david casa, rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − mr president, mr casa has asked me to speak on his behalf because he is not able to be here at this time. many of the amendments from the committee on employment and social affairs have been taken into account by the six-pack rapporteurs. we are sending the message that a society can only have a healthy economy when its members are able to contribute fully to its development. a healthy economy is the basis for a good level of employment and social policies, and vice versa, a good level of employment and social policies are preconditions for a healthy economy. those member states which had the most prudent fiscal policies and growth strategies are now performing best. this is the proof that fiscal stability leads to growth and employment. we need to respect the rules of the stability and growth pact. it is essential to achieve growth and jobs and to prevent the debt burden being placed on our children and future generations. we have to understand that every euro used in paying interest on the public debt is one which does not go towards investment in education, social security and other fields that provide a necessary environment for the good development of the economy and for the well-being of the people. therefore it is essential that our indebtedness in the member states is reduced as soon as possible.
mr president, compromise is wise. certainly the parliament in its negotiations has gone more than halfway towards a compromise, but i think we have reached the limit. postponing decision-making on the package does not solve the problem. the problem will not go away. the same problems will face us again and will threaten the whole future of the euro and the eu if we do not have better coordination and more community method. in the long run the eu is an economic union. we need to get to the core reasons for the problems. we are closer with this package, but we are still not close enough. i think that the reverse qualified majority is one of the issues at the core of the problem. this is not a time for populism and short-sighted policy-making, which, in my view, the council has been doing to some extent sometimes. the council, like parliament, is responsible for europeans. i hope that the council, with the commission and parliament, will share their responsibility and take the necessary steps on this economic governance package and future actions. if the pieces are not right and not in order, plans for the future and the eu2020 are only futile and nice words, on which basis we really cannot build the future.
mr president, european climate and energy policy has been marked by a multitude of irrational solutions. an emissions trading system has been created that artificially increases the price of electricity and increases costs with little climate or environmental benefit. they've built wind power where there's no wind. the feed-in tariffs have made profitable what would never be profitable. there has been a transfer of income from industry to companies producing marketable electricity. the renewable energy targets have been set on such an unrealistic timetable that it is jeopardising sustainable forestry. this is no longer possible in a world economy in crisis and with the credibility of the euro at stake. in the light of these examples, i cannot understand parliament's willingness to further increase our unilateral emission reduction target, whose environmental benefits are globally minimal compared to the burden on our industry and jobs. with germany now announcing that it will phase out nuclear power, it is clear that the eu will not be able to meet its emissions reduction targets due to the increasing use of fossil fuels. instead, both the price of emission allowances and the price of electricity will rise. the employers and the producers are the ones who pay the price, while emissions continue to rise outside our borders. now we need wisdom. it is clear that we do not receive global support for binding emission cuts, so the emphasis must be on technological solutions and the problem of the ridiculous parts: a different strategy is needed to control the drivers of climate change. short-lived ones are black carbon, aerosols, methane and atmospheric ozone, which behave differently from long-lived ones, such as carbon dioxide, hydrocarbons or nitrogen oxides. if we focus on just one, carbon dioxide, it shows that we don't understand the diversity of the problem.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank our excellent rapporteur for a good job. i am also pleased that the europe 2020 strategy is the foundation of this work. the decisions we have to take for the future cannot wait until we have the new multiannual financial framework in place, but we must probably start working on the future now, and then the years 2012 and 2013 will be decisive. at the same time, we should probably remind ourselves that we had a rather cumbersome process when we drew up the 2011 budget. we could not agree on a common tone with the european council. against this background, it is unfortunate that the rather significant increase proposed by the commission for the 2012 budget is to be deplored. in the liberal group we think that this increase is too great. that is why we have also tabled amendments aimed at making the budget more realistic, something which i hope the other groups will be able to support when we vote later today. what we also want to stress is that we have a rather strange cemented culture where we over-budget every year for certain areas even though we know that this money will be sent back unused at the end of the year, de facto the following year. is there nothing that can be done about this over-budgeting of some activities within the union? we think it is absolutely vital that we are aware of the economic realities in europe. unfortunately, this means that next year's budget cannot be quite as large as the commission thinks it should be. at the same time, i think the council must also realise that we cannot cope with so-called zero growth either, and we will probably need some new resources for the priorities we have agreed. we must find a middle ground here, and at least in our group we believe that it can only be found if everyone takes responsibility.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent and important reports on cohesion policy. it's good that we're having this conversation together here. these reports are a good example of the importance of regional policy as a constructive factor for europe and as a factor of unity. regional policy has certainly been a success story, able to reduce the differences between member states and thus create stability for europe as a whole. the challenges of the future are constantly changing and regional policy, as has been shown in the discussions here, must be able to adapt to these changes. we must recognize the problems that have arisen over the years in the use of cohesion funds, and for this reason the regional policy of the coming period must be much more effective in its implementation and also more result-oriented. as has been said, the administrative burden must also be lightened in the coming period. this will certainly enable us to respond better to the challenges facing cohesion policy. when we talk about the eu 2020 strategy, we must remember that cohesion policy is one of the most important and concrete instruments for implementing this strategy. it is therefore of the utmost importance that parliament should take a strong stand in this report too in favour of the present budgetary level. on the other hand, it is also important that the report also takes account of the specific challenges, for example, the sparsely populated areas, which will also need their own segregation in the future, in accordance with article 174. the intermediate category has been the subject of much discussion today, also in relation to these reports. but i would just like to ask the commission: does the creation of a new structure always solve the problem itself, or could we also respond to similar challenges by developing the existing system of phasing in, phasing out?
mr president, regional policy, cohesion policy, is needed to close the development gap. it is of great importance for the well-being of people and also for the competitiveness of europe. regional policy at eu level must first and foremost create added value, generate new businesses and thereby create jobs for people. the question arises whether it makes sense to channel all existing regional aid through brussels or whether the money could be used more effectively directly for the benefit of the regions in the member states. the eu's regional policy is plagued by bureaucracy and abuses. there is a lot of bureaucracy both in the eu and in the member states, and this has led to many innovative companies, new or old, not applying for money, for support, because applying for it would require hiring one or two people and would take a lot of time. the question is whether european innovation policy has any future if it is not supported by regional policy.
madam president, on behalf of our group, i would like to propose an oral amendment to the last sentence of amendment 27. the words ‘must not’ should be replaced by ‘should not’.
mr president, mr hannan has just referred to the need for less integration and, in any case, not more integration. however, this consumer protection proposal was precisely the right one for further integration. we support the rights of citizens and consumer protection in international, european trade. we know that e-commerce is the future, but the regulations are not the future of e-commerce, and it is high time to move forward. in my own country, finland, this legislation is already quite advanced, and sometimes one wonders, of course, whether we are going backwards now that we are making common rules, but since trade is european, the rules must also be european and we must continue along this path.
mr president, this extremely important report was adopted and first of all we should commend and thank the rapporteur, mr deß, who has done a tremendous job in finding these compromises to bring this cap reform forward in such a significant way. i can see how difficult it is when each member state has very different demands as to what should be included in this cap reform, but there is one important point involved and that is, of course, this greening. it is important that farmers are involved in sustainable environmental policy, but how is this greening to be done? it has to be done as deß has said here. it must not add to the bureaucracy, it must not increase the costs of the producers, and it must take account of the different situations in the member states, and if it succeeds in this way when the commission makes detailed proposals afterwards, then we are on the right track and can rejoice together that farmers are involved in the environmental campaigns.
mr president, i am very sceptical about direct budget support, because i believe that it can promote, among other things, arms trade. the point i would like to make is that the whole eu budget, but also development aid and this budgetary support, should be better monitored and more transparent so that citizens know where the money is going. it would be interesting to know whether the commission has considered making the results of this eu financial assistance available on the internet on a monthly basis. i believe it will help in that the citizens will be more alert and more willing to help because they know that the money is going to be there. now, unfortunately, they are not all going to the same place, but there is abuse, there is corruption, there is arms buying. i would suggest that the eu start putting on the internet monthly the results of what has been achieved with development aid.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the princess de rosa on her excellent report on the future of public services. the provision and organisation of services of general interest is for the time being primarily the responsibility of the member states. however, more harmonised principles are needed at eu level in this area. access to services of general interest must be guaranteed for all eu citizens to safeguard fundamental rights and to reduce the growing health disparities. the provision of these services should be primarily the responsibility of society, as a market-based service system cannot guarantee access to services of general interest for all, or almost all, services in the absence of genuine market demand. if the liberalization of the service system goes too far, those who suffer the most are those who need the services the most, and especially women. the procurement of services of general interest shall be as transparent as possible in accordance with the general procurement rules. however, it should be borne in mind that the guarantee of quality and purposeful services requires a flexible procurement procedure in which price is not the only determining factor. there are certain situations where you have to have a say.
in writing. the european union is the world's largest donor of development aid. the eu and its member states gave a total of 53.8 billion in development aid last year. the european commission's share was about 10 billion. the problem with development aid is the inherited cost of aid. in order to avoid corruption, development aid should be as transparent as possible in both donor and recipient countries. parliament also called for the creation of an electronic database on development aid. it will help to increase the transparency and acceptance of development projects. the database shall be made as clear as possible. citizens must be able to follow the progress of development aid and its results in real time on the internet.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues, including the commission and the council, for the good cooperation. it was a technical matter, but it was a matter of principle and it was very important, because we have to do everything we can to protect the consumer. in the end, it is a question of preserving consumer confidence in the internal market, and we must support this confidence by all means possible. the fact that the commission will be presenting a new evaluation report and also a new legislative proposal at the end of 2014 has been passed by parliament and is an important matter and a victory for parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague mr repo for his excellent report. the progress made in our consumer protection is of considerable importance in improving the internal market. although this is a technical issue, it is of fundamental importance that we can better deal with complaints and possible crossborder litigation. it was great that the honourable member got a check clause at this time, so that the commission will follow the matter closely and will make a further statement on the matter in 2014. this was a clear victory.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr repo for a very good, and frankly excellent, report. of course, it can be said that this is perhaps a small step for you, mr repo, but it is a big step for the european internal market and for european consumers. it is important to remember that when we talk about consumer protection, we are talking about a matter in which we safeguard the living conditions of citizens, and we are talking about a matter which really affects civil societies. the objective and principle in the european union must be that citizens can have good consumer protection and accurate information on various products and consumer goods, and thus live a healthy and secure life in this respect too. it is also very important for the internal market to ensure that this is the way forward. the development of the internal market also requires that consumers receive reliable and up-to-date information. the 2014 monitoring of evaluation is good because if we have a goal and an objective, we also have to act and check that it is being achieved.
mr president, as has been said here, there is no doubt that gm crops have their own potential and their own significance, but we do not have sufficient information about the risks involved. i see that it is now a question of who decides these things and what motivates them. i myself want my own country, finland, to be able to decide on the widest possible ban if it so wishes, without having to ask for a separate authorization for each plant. that is why i voted today in a way which is fundamentally different from that of most of my group.
mr president, when we are discussing here whether the target is 30 or 25 per cent, i would say that it is probably easy to agree that high targets are a good thing. i myself am prepared to accept a target of 30%. but we must always remember how industry gets involved. it is about european jobs. if industry does not keep up, jobs can be moved to countries where these percentages are not taken into account, so the balance has to be struck. we should also remember that when we talk about the financial framework and the budget, we have to invest in innovation so that we can find the energy-efficient solutions and the new innovations that will enable us to achieve this.
i would like to say, mr president, that we all agree with the eickhout report that we must do our utmost to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. we in europe are committed to the eu's 20-20-20 target, and this is enough. we have to make sure that the rest of the world is on board. we must remember that european emissions account for about 10% of the world's total. if we are thinking of european jobs and european industry, we must ensure that jobs and industry can be maintained here. if we create new targets and tightening each year, the industry cannot respond to them. we need to set clear objectives and targets, such as the 20-20-20 target, and to follow them, rather than stumbling around like this and creating uncertainty. we need european industry, it is committed to the 20-20-20 targets, and we must stick to it and get the rest of the world involved in these environmental agreements.
mr president, cohesion and structural policy is a vital instrument for bridging the gaps in europe. one important point is that, although the number of errors and abuses has decreased, it is still very high. the money has not been recovered and in some member states these figures are quite shocking. we must change this and make better use of the money. the use of structural policy as a whole will of course lose its credibility if citizens are constantly reading about these abuses. the loss of reputation in terms of how this works is quite staggering, and i therefore hope that there will continue to be a significant focus on efficiency and better budgetary control.
in writing. - mr president, for once i am happy after the vote in parliament on climate action. the vote and the failure of the report send a clear signal to the member states and to those outside the eu that parliament too is serious about the fight against climate change, because we are not prepared for anything. if we had now unilaterally raised the cut to 30%, it would have further reinforced the message that the eu's realities are badly missed. now, instead, we showed the citizens that we also care about our industry and the irreplaceable jobs it creates, while actively seeking a global solution to a global problem. i believe that this is the only way to earn respect outside the eu and, in the future, to sit down at the same table with those who decide on global action.
in writing. − an adequate, reliable and functioning energy infrastructure is a prerequisite for the implementation of the eu's overall economic strategy. it is therefore good that parliament has made its position clear today and has given its support and its suggestions for improvement to the commission and the member states. responding to climate change, strengthening security of supply and energy independence, and reducing total energy consumption are key elements in future eu energy strategies and require effective preparation now. that is why it was easy to vote in favour of the report, although it is still a long way from the fine words to the actual action. unfortunately, the situation is not very good at the moment: the eu is paying a heavy price for an outdated and poorly connected energy infrastructure in many ways. the recent gas supply disruptions reminded us of this, for example the lack of the possibility of reversing the flow. in the longer term, the eu's co2 emissions reduction target also creates a need for development, as electricity use will increase radically and pressures for large-scale storage and transport will increase. similarly, the development of renewable energy sources requires strong investment in smart, efficient and competitive energy networks to avoid supply disruptions and unnecessary waste.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, a word of thanks to the commission. i think that the proposal is innovative and brings a lot of changes that we really need. the positive things are firstly the own resources, which our group leader has already spoken about, and then the advantages which mr färm just mentioned: research and development, infrastructure and other things. that's great. at the same time, i think it is important to be able to explain where we are actually trying to re-prioritize european resources, i.e. it should be about quality in terms of spending money. we are asking for more money here, after all, and it is important to be able to explain that we are also re-prioritizing. in this case, communication would be helpful. it may be that we in parliament, together with the council, also have reason to review some of the expenditure items we have. we should remember that we pay back quite a lot of money to the member states every year, which we could perhaps avoid and instead re-prioritize for the future. i would also like to say that the practice of moving certain things out of the budget is not necessarily a good one. one of our colleagues said that the budget proposal would increase by 11%. it does not, but in different media in different countries there have been different views on how much the commission is actually proposing to increase the budget. the commission can look at itself in the mirror here, because the proposal is admittedly quite complicated. if you take things out of the budget like this, you can think about how to communicate that in the future. but the proposal is a good start. thank you to the commission.
mr president, mr lewandowski, in these days when the governments of the member states are having to cut their spending, the political conclusion is easily that we have to cut the eu budget drastically. but this is not the way to do it. this is the time to be brave. we need more europe now, we need more value for the euro now. the best way to do this is to invest in research and innovation, especially in new forms of energy. this is how we will get the growth and employment that we need most of all. but on the other hand, you have to have budget discipline. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these matters now just need to be handled more efficiently and better if citizens' confidence in the eu budget is to be maintained. i would also like a clear answer as to what is meant by freezing agricultural expenditure but not cutting it. in practice, this freezing will cut the incomes of farmers in the coming years. i know that even in my own country, there is no longer any possibility or opportunity to do so. i would therefore like to have precise calculations of how agricultural expenditure is to be managed so that these cuts do not occur.
i would like to thank the commissioner, mr president, for the excellent presentation it has made on the financial framework, and i believe that on this basis the negotiations can be very successful. i think that this is a good reflection of the eu's 20-20-20 objectives for each policy area, and i am particularly pleased that it specifically recognises the role of regional policy as a concrete instrument for taking these eu 20-20-20 objectives to the grassroots level. it is also good that there is more emphasis on conditionality in regional policy and on these new areas of innovation, the green economy, energy efficiency and so on. we certainly need these reforms. on the other hand, it is good that the specific problem areas are also taken into account in this paragraph. as far as agriculture is concerned, i share the concern expressed by some colleagues that although the political priorities are good, how can we, with these freezes, actually achieve these good objectives in themselves?
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank you for this good compromise, which is in any case a step forward in terms of these origin labels. when we talk about these food labels, the consumer and his legal protection must be at the heart of everything. every consumer should know where the food he buys comes from and what it contains. the consumer must also be able to choose local products. this compromise is a step forward, particularly with regard to these indications of origin. as has been said on several occasions here, it extends the obligation to notify these labels to meat products, among other things, and that is very important. there is still a great deal to be done, though. it is important that in future the country of origin labelling should also be extended to dairy products and highly processed products, so that consumers are not misled in this respect too. i would also like to support my colleague, mr tremosa i balcells, on this language issue, and i hope that the commissioner will take this into account.
mr president, short-term decisions can be made correctly only if the long-term calls are right in the first place and if there is a compass to guide us. this is the approach the committee has tried to take, pursuing the maximum common understanding, rather than minimalist, short-termist interest serving. i would like to thank our rapporteur, ms berès, and our chair, wolf klinz, for doing excellent work, as well as all our colleagues who were involved. the main message from the committee is that we need steps towards economic and monetary union, including a european treasury, to tackle the global and european imbalances of sovereign debt and to create the prerequisites for growth. we need a common tax base. we need better own resources. we need to make more effective use of our own money by increasing the eu budget in the long term and by making strategically crucial investments. and we need stronger social cohesion in order to implement the eu 2020 goals. we need unified representation of the euro area and the eu as a whole in international forums. we need europe to prioritise stronger, more efficient tackling of global economic governance, including better structures for financial regulation, with a stronger role for the imf. the committee’s work is at an end but the work of the eu towards achieving these goals is just beginning, and this is what we hope for our citizens. i invite the commission and the council to join parliament in defending our citizens’ future and their well-being in these politically difficult times.
mr president, a distinguished professor of economics once said that the longer young people study economics, the more insolent they become. so the question is, where do these insolent bankers, greedy investors, unfair credit raters, and so on, come from? they come from universities, from institutions, from among us, and that is why we need rules and regulations to curb this greed. and they are needed now in greece, they are needed in europe, and even in the united states, new rules of the game are needed. i think this report is very good, and so is the commission's commitment to creating new rules of the game, both in the long term and in the short term. but i would stress that europe is hampered by a lack of consensus, because decisions must now be taken to reassure citizens and the market that the matter is under control. i would also like to stress not only this lack of unanimity but also, in a certain sense, a lack of virtue. as berès said, it's strange that we haven't learned anything. for example, the bonuses for bank managers who led to the wrong decisions are only increasing at the moment, so there is no learning. i think this is a very important report and it contains these global solutions, eurobonds, the new economic security council and the solutions of the moment. congratulations to berès and to president klinz!
mr president, the free movement of food is an essential part of a functioning internal market and that is why i supported this report. the european union must continue to promote the health and well-being of its citizens and their social and economic interests. clear, understandable and easily readable food labels are one of the ways in which the european union can really work together to improve the welfare of its citizens. nutrition labels are an important means of informing consumers about the composition of food and also help them to make informed choices. education and information campaigns are also an important tool to improve consumer understanding of food information. however, not everything needs to be addressed and it is therefore important that food sales, for example at charity events and markets, are not covered by this regulation.
mr president, there are many additives in food and foodstuffs today which cause allergies or are harmful or even dangerous when eaten. it is therefore very important that these ingredients are clearly indicated and thus can be avoided by the consumer. it is a shame for the eu that such a simple matter has been dealt with for years. i hope that this will now be done quickly and that the origin of the food and also the method of production will be clearly indicated. it's a modern thing. if the eu wants to be and live in this day and age, it will move quickly and the origin labels on food will be written clearly and legibly.
mr president, i myself voted in favour of this report. this is a very important proposal for a directive, in which we are making progress on common traffic rules and control. we need common rules and also common supervision. this is above all a matter of road safety. if europeans know that fines from other countries are not being passed on and that information is not being shared, it is easy to encourage people to commit offences that increase road safety. we cannot accept that. this vote also included a correlation table. the problem with it initially was only that it might delay the advancement of this good cause, and that is why it was problematic in the first place.
mr president, improving road safety must be one of the main objectives of the european union's transport policy, and that is why the ayala sender report is appropriate. the eu's policy should aim to improve road safety and reduce road deaths, injuries and property damage. i think it would be a good idea to increase the convergence of the control measures and technical equipment used to control road safety in the various member states. in addition, the public should be made more aware of the road safety rules in force in the various countries. the control and sanctioning of road traffic offences is one of the most effective means of reducing the number of accidents and road casualties. but while surveillance has a preventive effect, security is made up of many different things. not just what is between two or four wheels and a tire, but, above all, what is between the driver's own ears.
mr. president, the scanners are a very good idea. i myself have been through a scanner like this in the united states, and i found it to be a very pleasant way of doing things. it was a much faster way, and it's a little different, you know, when you walk into the scanner and you don't have to, like today, strip down to almost half naked, take off your shoes, your coat, your belt, everything. so i'm all for the scanners. of course, we have to make sure that they don't have any health effects, and there's always that second option if someone doesn't want to go through the scanner. but many of the fears about the misuse of data are certainly greatly exaggerated, and i hope that the scanners will be put into operation as soon as possible. the other thing, of course, is to get the fluids on the plane. this is behind the times and makes life very difficult for ordinary people when it is not, and i would hope that this ban would be dropped as soon as possible.
in writing. − the european union should invest more in the creation of a common broadband area in order to clear obstacles to free movement in the european area. the european union should be an example for the world in terms of digital development. one of the main problems in this area for the citizens of the union is pricing, especially the lack of harmonisation in pricing on the territory of the european union. a citizen should know that the price of using broadband services in different member countries is always the same, just like with mobile phone calls.
in writing. − in times like these we need more european union and efforts should be made to increase the value of the euro. for the european union to have a successful future, no cuts should be made in innovation or research and development in the union. it is also very important not to cut funding in the field of agriculture. freezing the budget would in many cases mean cuts in reality. making cuts in that field is not a sustainable future road to go down. the consequences can be more serious than expected.
in writing. − equal opportunities for men and women in career development in the labour market and in appointments to management positions. the achievement of social justice and the exploitation of women's skills also strengthen the economy. it is only an advantage that the whole of society is represented at all levels of management. however, equal opportunities for women and men must be ensured. we need to find effective ways of increasing the number of women on company boards. the current development is far too slow. the access of qualified and trained women to positions which are currently difficult to obtain must be made possible by specific measures. self-regulatory standards and good governance are an excellent way to do this. in finland, women have been able to increase their representation on boards without quota legislation and both genders are represented in decision-making bodies could this be a model for the whole of europe?
in writing. - the european economic crisis has been under the magnifying glass of academics and politicians, and while it has been designed to appear united on the surface, it has been a constantly clustered one under the surface. recently, there has been an increasing number of views on debt restructuring, which were rejected as completely impossible six months ago. more and more are leaning toward the line that arrangements are necessary. the debate has moved from a yes or no to whether arrangements are a lesser evil sooner or later. the unsustainable political culture and lack of self-regulation in crisis countries have led to irresponsible fiscal management and chronic budget deficits. the remedies will be painful, and the responsibility for sharing the burden fairly will fall to politicians. and by fairness, i mean that those who benefited from the bubble of the last decade would suffer in equal measure if it burst. the standard of living that is obtained through debt and fraud is not real and must not be made so at the expense of others. when we talk about unity and solidarity, it is good to bear in mind that the eu treaties explicitly state that member states are not liable for each other's debts. this report contains elements which threaten to be in conflict with the relevant articles of the treaty. the debt securities issued by the union would be solidarity-based, which would not only allow the eu to spend more than it has, but would also dilute the political responsibility for debt beyond the reach of the governments and citizens of the member states. i do not think that more economic solidarity is desirable until the overwhelming majority of eu politicians understand that in the longer term it is not possible to eat more than you earn.
in writing. - the economic crisis has tested europe's strength. the social costs are high, with the number of people in work falling by 23 million across the eu and the youth unemployment rate at over 20%. uncertainty has increased across europe. the economic and social crisis triggered by the financial crisis has led to a political crisis in several countries. many governments have been defeated when citizens have taken to the barricades to express their dissatisfaction with the present situation. the crisis has also revealed a lack of confidence and vision within the eu. there is no consensus on crisis management. clear strategies are needed, as well as commonly agreed long-term policy choices for the common good of all 27 member states. the right targeted training should be one of the main long-term strategic priorities. at the same time, however, it must be possible to increase the number of jobs.
mr president, the eu wants to promote democracy and human rights in north africa. equally important is the creation of jobs and training for africans, and here the rules of fair and just trade play a very important role. i would encourage the creation of fairer rules in this area and also encourage closer cooperation between these countries. the commission wants to increase support to our southern partners by more than eur 1 billion over the period 2011-13. i would . what are the financial instruments in the eu budget, within which the eu intends to channel this money and what is it intended to achieve with this money? i am pleased that in its resolution parliament recognises turkey's important role in the arab world as a mediator and peace-builder. turkey has been exemplary, not least because it has kept its borders open to syrian refugees. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region. turkey must also be a strategic partner of the eu, not just a beneficiary country, and i think the eu must be able to recognise turkey's important role in this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, democracy is now being called for in the arab countries to replace authoritarian regimes. however, the political system in many of these countries is very underdeveloped and, unfortunately, there is no visible sign of genuine democratic leadership emerging. the alternative to the future in these countries is military rule or radical islamism at its worst, and not the democracy that we all here so much desire. fortunately, recent developments in morocco and tunisia give some hope for better. the upcoming parliamentary elections in egypt in particular are in many ways very decisive. if the muslim brotherhood comes to power in that country, they are not bringing peace, but rather endangering the entire middle east peace process and, for example, the justification for the existence of israel. the threat of terrorism is also high in syria and libya. syria maintains close relations with iran, which also supplies arms to hezbollah in lebanon. that is why it would be extremely important to get a resolution against syria at the un. the suppression of human rights has increased in the context of the arab uprisings and a recent letter from four algerian organisations to the commission and the council called for the union to pay greater attention to the serious violations of freedom of expression and religion in algeria, including the closure of christian churches. i hope, commissioners, that in such cases the european union will take a regular and determined approach to these situations.
mr president, the decision of the court of justice of the european union in spring to prohibit the buying-in of intervention stocks is contrary to the market organisation regulation. the court's decision considers that the quantities of products to be distributed under the food aid programme must be adjusted to the quantities of intervention stocks. in many countries, eu food aid is distributed through parishes and relief organisations, i.e. through voluntary work. the severe reduction in the food aid programme's product range could jeopardise the entire food distribution programme, the voluntary networks would break up and food aid donated from elsewhere, including shops, could also be withheld. the court's decision is absurd, given that last year we celebrated the european year against poverty and exclusion and this year we are celebrating the european year of voluntary service. are the theme years just for the holidays? what does the commission intend to do to remedy this situation?
mr president, unfortunately poverty is a problem in europe. in finland, too, there are food lines, and the most common person in these lines is a family-oriented, unemployed woman over 50. the eu has created safety nets for financial markets, but the eu has not created strong safety nets for the poor and vulnerable. it is a shame that there are still food lines in europe and that we have to distribute food. i would hope that the commission would come up with a sustainable programme to eradicate this poverty so that people do not have to queue for food. but as long as there is no such thing, i think it is worth continuing this programme.
mr. chairman, i would like to thank my colleague, andrew duff. i regret to say, however, that i do not support this motion except in so far as it is justified in bringing the elections forward to may. there are three main reasons why i do not support the 25 new members of parliament. firstly, there is simply no need for them, this parliament is already big enough. instead, we should be thinking about improving the efficiency and quality of our work. secondly, this is a coup d'état by the big member states. thirdly, there are practical problems. a vital part of the parliamentarian's job is to keep in touch with the public. it seems that these 25 new members of parliament are not going to be able to communicate with the citizens and the electors, because it is practically impossible. if the eu is to expand, how will it be possible to visit each member state at least twice a year? i would also like to point out that, yes, euro affairs can be discussed in elections in any other way, and i would like to remind you that in the last parliamentary elections in finland, that is, in the national elections, there was no talk of anything but european affairs. national issues were completely out of the question. it is up to us to choose what things we will keep in view.
mr president, the objectives of the proposed reform are all very welcome. i support all the objectives that have been put forward by the proponents of the reform in this debate. i still have my doubts about the transnational lists. from the point of view of a citizen of a small member state, the reform looks like an increase in the influence of the large member states. if transnational lists are open, meaning that voters are free to choose whom to vote for, then in practice only the candidates from the largest member states have the chance of being elected. if, on the other hand, the european parties rank their candidates, then in each party too the members of the largest member states have the greatest influence, and this varies from party to party. it is very important to find ways of having a european political debate and a european public debate, but i very much hope that we will find better ways of doing so than the transnational lists which, at least in my country, only increase the opposition to the eu.
mr president, we must remember what the role of members of the european parliament is. we represent our member states, we represent our electors. it is quite clear to me that it is not a step in the right direction to create such a two-tiered model, whereby a small elite group is elected without a clear constituency or constituency of its own or with the whole of europe as its constituency. this is already adding to the democratic deficit and i can say that it is very difficult to justify this type of change. the task of a member of the european parliament is to build a people's europe, to ensure that the values of democracy, human rights and freedom of expression which are at the very heart of the european union can be strengthened. the best way to do this is by having a proportional system and having a clear link with our electorate. that is why i am against this type of idea. i do not think that now is the time for this reform, but we should find more instruments to enable citizens and decision-makers to meet each other even better and to have stronger links.
mr president, ageing is a challenge for the whole of society and for all generations in europe. the proportion of the population aged over 60 is growing at an increasing rate in europe. this is good, because it shows that europe has succeeded in improving the well-being and quality of life of its citizens. however, demographic change also creates new challenges. the sustainability of financing of health care and public services, the decline in population and attractiveness of certain regions, and the pressure on pension funds are discussed. our aging population is healthier and better educated than the previous generation. this is a positive asset to be harnessed. they have good opportunities to work and to participate actively in social and family life, such as volunteering, lifelong learning, cultural activities and sport. the future of europe depends not only on young people but also on those who have already gained experience of life.
it is important, mr president, that parliament was able to take a position on the year of active ageing before the autumn began, because, in terms of fundamental rights, perhaps the largest single group facing discrimination at the moment are the elderly. this is also particularly relevant in the era of the fight against poverty and active participation, as an increasing proportion of older people are excluded both economically and in terms of their own influence on everyday life, community planning and the content of the services available. it is therefore important that the national parliaments, the european parliament and the european union strongly emphasise the legal basis of the fundamental rights aspect of the rights of older people and the practical action programmes needed in each member state to implement it. it is also important that we ensure that a national coordinator is appointed in each country by the end of september to ensure that the programme is implemented.
mr president, the action or rather the inaction of the european union and the international community in the syrian situation is a serious attack on the citizens' sense of justice. the way forward is clear in the case of syria: the killing of innocent people must stop and the perpetrators must be brought to justice. international journalists should be allowed access to the country in order to obtain reliable information on the situation in the country. the european union's failure to intervene in the face of serious human rights violations in its neighbours is still a regrettable fact. we are still faced with the same fundamental question that divided opinion on libya: how to deal with a situation where a state is using violence against its own citizens? in the case of syria, are we going to see a repeat of libya, demonstrating our own double standards?
mr president, i have read the de keyser report. democracy is the best safeguard of human rights and fundamental freedoms, it also guarantees tolerance for all groups in society and equal opportunities for all individuals. europe must offer its neighbours more than just a stick. for example, providing genuine economic cooperation and support would promote economic growth, which in itself supports the development of democracy. but genuine democracy always and only comes from within, from the people, and cannot be imposed from without or from above. it is difficult to justify a refusal to cooperate economically for purely ideological reasons. europe has much to lose if its neighbours to the east and south decide to turn their backs on a common european future. however, not everyone can be offered a future as a member of the eu.
mr president, the schengen agreement guarantees one of the most visible freedoms of the european union: the free movement of persons. it is one of the most successful achievements of european integration, and we can all enjoy its fruits when we travel. changing the agreed rules is a much broader challenge than the migration flows of just a few thousand migrants from europe's southern neighbours. this is an important principle: the process of european integration must not be set back. it is difficult to predict the upheavals ahead, but the citizens of the southern mediterranean neighbourhood need our support in their transition towards a more democratic society. the role of the european parliament in the legislative process must also be respected. it is about the establishment of democracy in the european union.
mr president, mines are a real problem in many parts of the world. however, concern about land mines is greatest in countries such as afghanistan, colombia, pakistan, myanmar, cambodia, and laos. although the primary responsibility for addressing the problems lies with the states affected, the dangers posed by mines must be addressed through international cooperation before, during and after conflict. the victims of landmines are not only the person who steps on them, but also the whole of his family and the whole of the community. the european union must remind these countries of their obligations in their dialogue with them. the loss of life, especially among the civilian population, is a matter of great concern, and we must also show genuine solidarity in europe. in addition, the inhabitants of mine-affected areas, especially children, must be helped to live safely by making them aware of the dangers of mines.
mr president, the eastern part of the congo has been in a state of war and instability since the early 1990s, and sexual violence is part of this warfare. thousands upon thousands of women were raped in 2006-07 and the number of rapes has not decreased since, according to the latest international reports, whose findings are much darker than previous un statistics. the latest cases of gang rape are from this year: kirafu troops, formerly part of the mai mai rebels, are suspected of raping more than 60 women in january and now in june, also in the nakiele area, nearly 100 women. the eu must put strong pressure on the congolese government to end this situation and to bring the criminals to justice. the un must also bring the situation in the region under control.
mr president, the serious violations of human rights, particularly those against women, in the congo are extremely deplorable. physical violence against women is one of the most serious violations of human rights. what makes the crime particularly serious in the congo is that the perpetrators are still soldiers in the state army. the victims of the mass rapes in the congo are also the whole family and the community. a heinous crime leaves permanent scars on young women and girls for the rest of their lives. the perpetrators of this crime must be held accountable. in addition to criminal investigations, it is essential to protect victims from stigmatisation and to provide them with adequate crisis support and legal and psychological support. violence against women in all its forms must be condemned and human rights education should be increased as part of military training everywhere.
mr president, the war and the unrest in the democratic republic of congo have led to widespread sexual violence. the worst situation is in the east, in the north and south kivu region, where there is also a struggle for valuable natural resources. the un and international peacekeepers have clearly failed to protect women and children there. rape is a cruelly corrupting tool of warfare. in addition to mental and physical violence, it spreads disease, and in many cases rape victims end up as outcasts in their communities. it's tragic when there's no possibility of an abortion. too much time has passed in comparison to how little has been done. the eu and the un must step up and take concrete steps to clarify and stop the mass rapes in kivus province. the eu's funding to the drc should give priority to medical and legal aid for rape victims and take account of the international fight against aids. we must also put other human rights violations and the fight against corruption on a higher agenda.
the author. - mr president, the indonesian state ideology of pancasila has itself succeeded in an exemplary way in reconciling diversity, interreligious harmony, justice and freedom of religion. indonesia, the world's largest muslim-majority country, however, still has laws against blasphemy, blasphemy, and idolatry. in a genuine state governed by the rule of law, where human rights are truly respected, there is room for minorities, without enforced laws, whether they are religious, linguistic or ethnic minorities. such a state should also be open to the cooperation of the international community in order to prevent problems and further improve society. human rights must be protected wherever they are threatened. civil society and dialogue must play a strong role in creating genuine peace, harmony and coexistence between different communities.
mr president, the situation of religious minorities in indonesia requires our urgent attention. people have been arrested, tortured and killed. the numbers are growing, and something has to be done about it. the attacks are contrary to the indonesian tradition of pluralism and respect for cultural harmony. attacks have been directed against christians, buddhists, and ahmadi muslims. as an example, i can mention the events of february 8, when hundreds of people burned down three churches and attacked a priest in the city of java. the reason for the attack was that the christian who, in their view, had offended islam had received only a five-year prison sentence instead of the death penalty. in the last six years, there have been 430 attacks on christian churches. there are many examples of all religious minorities, and the human rights violations are more serious than the others.
mr president, we in the eu are categorically opposed to the death penalty, regardless of the crimes the accused may have committed. as has been made clear in several speeches here, the charges against davinder pal singh are very serious. he is accused of a terrorist attack in which nine people were killed in delhi in 1993. so we want to say with this resolution that we do not condone his actions and we do not support terrorism, but we are calling for the abolition of the death penalty in india. amnesty international has described the recent rejection of pardons as a major setback for india's human rights record.
mr president, we must once again underline the european union's longstanding commitment to opposing the death penalty in all cases and in all circumstances. we therefore wanted to highlight in our resolution india, which has sentenced to death two people, davinder pal singh bhullar and mahendra nath das. although both have committed serious crimes, we cannot accept their execution. india has not executed anyone since 2004. however, indian president pratibha patil has not granted amnesty to either of the convicted men at the end of may. we must take the message forward so that india continues to defer the execution of death sentences and work towards the abolition of the death penalty altogether. this is essential if human rights are to be fully realised in india.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for this very important report. europe and the world need an effective raw materials strategy, as has been stated here on several occasions, so that our natural resources, and in particular critical raw materials, will also be sufficient for future generations. first of all, i am very pleased that the committee has also given very strong consideration to northern europe, which has significant mineral and mineral deposits and large forest areas, in this report. northern europe, and particularly the arctic, has a great deal of potential and a major role to play in the future availability of raw materials. it would be good if the commission could better understand the extent to which we are able to exploit these european mineral deposits and take account of the fact that their exploitation in a sustainable way would reduce the need to import our raw materials from third countries. it is important to note that the high potential of the arctic regions in particular as a potential source of rare earths, among other things, may reduce our dependence on imported minerals in the future. this report also deals with mineral taxation and i am very pleased that the committee has taken a negative view on the taxation of mineral resources. as the committee has pointed out in its report, taxation is not the appropriate instrument for improving resource efficiency in this case. finally, i would like to stress the importance of forests as a source of raw materials and energy for the future. i am a little disappointed that this report does not cover forests sufficiently, because there is a great deal of potential in forests and the forestry sector is also central to the green economy of the future.
in writing. – raw materials policy is a vital part of the eu’s industrial policy, ensuring competitiveness of european companies, sustainability of raw materials’ use and security of supply. the commission had included biotic resources in its communication and thus the raw materials strategy contributes to facing the challenges of europe, and can be anchored into the other eu policies to tackle them. this report, focusing only on minerals, takes a narrow and short-term approach to tackling the availability of specific raw materials and particularly rare earths. it fails to fulfil the task given and some measures are disproportionate. article 15 calls for a study on the effects of a tax on water and land use, which would hurt our sustainable forest industries. this would make wood-based products more expensive than metals and minerals, and at times when substituting high-carbon products with low-carbon wood products forms a partial answer in the fight against climate change. i hope the commission, while taking up proposals from the report, keeps its broad approach including biotic resources (e.g. wood), pushes for the innovation partnership on raw materials, with all raw materials addressed, and recognises the positive contribution to meeting the challenges of forests, forestry and forest-based industries.
i support the proposals put forward to increase the powers and capacity of the border guard agency. supporting border control is one of the eu's most important tasks, and failure is simply not an option. no country is to blame for its own geographical position or the migratory pressure it faces. it is therefore justified to share this burden and we must cooperate in border control and help each other, even in difficult times, and especially then. for example, in greece, it is estimated that there are over a million illegal immigrants, adding to the country's dire economic situation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. if the external borders of the union are leaking, the pressure will increase on member states to increase internal border controls, and we cannot blame national governments for any measures they take. in short, borders are not controlled to reduce freedom, but to secure freedom.
in writing. according to this report, member states are obliged to provide their own equipment for frontex operations if frontex so requests. i hope that this will solve one major problem: the fact that the member states have often not provided the agency with sufficient equipment.
in writing. - the control of the european union's external borders and migration issues have been the subject of much discussion in recent years. the new frontex rules will strengthen the european border control culture. the change is significant. the operational capacity of frontex will be substantially improved. the effectiveness of joint operations will increase. the possibilities for acquiring own equipment and recruiting own operational staff complement the resources allocated by the member states. the reform will increase frontex's ability to respond to rapid and unexpected situations, as seen during the last spring and summer.
in writing. − this resolution and the extension and autonomisation of frontex's external competences are a step towards increasingly integrated border control and a european immigration policy. a high level of independent and uniform border controls will enable free movement within the european union. however, while extending the mandate of frontex, care must be taken to improve its current protection measures, particularly in terms of human rights. i am particularly pleased that the consideration of human and fundamental rights obligations is being increased in frontex's work. the principle of non-refoulement and the right of everyone to leave any country, including his own, are particularly important. it is clear that the agencies of the european union must respect the law and fundamental rights of the union when they operate both within and outside the eu. at the same time, the human rights training of civil servants must be increased.
in writing. − i voted in favour of ensuring the safety of offshore oil and gas drilling, as it is important that all oil and gas drilling in the union be subject to the same rules. however, the regulatory systems at union level are already so developed that control and environmental protection methods should be promoted mainly on a local basis, taking into account the technical conditions. while the depth of the water undoubtedly affects the challenge of drilling, the deep and shallow seas cannot be divided into safe and dangerous. furthermore, oil and gas drilling is not evenly distributed across the union, but takes place mainly in the north sea, which means that specific actions must be created taking into account the location and the environment. while it is good to remember the financial responsibility of the member states for possible environmental damage, instead of mandatory compensation and guarantee schemes, attention should be focused on prevention of damage and minimisation of risk factors. this indicates carefully prepared safety assessments and careful consideration of potential risks. an important part of ensuring the safety of oil and gas drilling is our responsibility towards the environment. combating climate change and minimising the release of toxins into the environment are important priorities. despite the above, the safety of oil and gas drilling must be developed in a way that does not undermine the eu's self-sufficiency. the ban on all deep-sea drilling would not only be a disproportionate reaction, it would also be ineffective. the european union must therefore create sustainable and environmentally friendly solutions without losing its competitiveness alongside other major economies.
in writing. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for producing an excellent report. one of the basic conditions for participating and following the union's affairs is the possibility of being informed about the ideas behind decision-making and the costs of development. the eu treaty enshrines the general right of every citizen to have access to parliament, commission and council documents. this right is more precisely enshrined in the 2001 regulation. the report rightly states that 'criticism of the eu may gradually increase, because in the context of openness and the right of citizens to access documents and information, there is a constant desire to do so'. in the past year, several ngos have also taken the eu institutions to court for not having handed over the requested documents in time or not at all. this cannot be the case, and the principle of maximum transparency must be upheld. the refusal to receive a document must be an absolute exception. the principle of transparency must finally be implemented in the eu. the union that is hidden and lurking in ivory towers will not win the approval of the citizens. the keywords are citizen participation and transparency. by having civil society itself influence the development of eu affairs, the message of the union's activities is also transmitted directly to the grassroots.
mr president, commissioner, homelessness is one of the most serious problems facing europe in the wake of the economic crisis, and it is often accompanied by multi-dimensional social and health problems. homelessness cannot be defined in a completely unambiguous way: it is a phenomenon which takes on very different connotations in different times and countries. this makes it difficult to make a comparable estimate of the number of homeless people, but it should not be used as an excuse for not having a homeless strategy. the member states must have competence in social policy, but we need joint coordination and the exchange of best practice. fortunately, national strategies for homelessness have been developed in many member states. in my home country, finland, the 'housing first' principle has been the starting point for the programme to reduce long-term homelessness. it argues that the improvement of housing and living conditions reduces the use of services such as drug treatment and hospitals and also motivates many people, for example those with drug problems, to rehabilitate. the new model focuses significantly more on preventing and reducing homelessness permanently than on the development of temporary housing or temporary accommodation. it is also understood that supporting people in existing housing will be much more cost-effective for society than treating the consequences of homelessness in hospitals, drug treatment centres or prisons. last year, commissioner, was the year of the fight against poverty and exclusion. the theme years should not be just for the sake of celebration, but serious human problems must be addressed.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the initiators of this question, mr seeber and mr skylakakis, for their initiative. we know that rapidly acting greenhouse gas emissions should be turned into cash by 2015. to avoid any chance of that, action must also be taken swiftly on other greenhouse gases than carbon dioxide. the commission has already stated that in many cases it is possible to reduce emissions of these gases at a much lower cost than co2, up to 100 times less than the climate impact. chris davis has already pointed out that the global warming effect of f-gases is up to a thousand times greater than that of carbon dioxide. we know that their share of global warming emissions is increasing, so there is a sense of urgency to limit them. these restrictions can be obtained through the montreal protocol, but the eu is the largest market in the world and can also act on its own. it can show the way and remove these gases by its own decision. we have already heard examples of better and more climate-friendly alternatives for many purposes, and scientists and engineers are constantly developing more. by setting an example, we can more easily convince other countries of the need for the same action, while at the same time developing our own technological leadership. according to one study, 5 to 20 percent of the f-gases used in retail refrigeration leak annually. this is a very significant number and we really need to take action to show the world the way by our own actions.
i am very pleased, mr president, mr commissioner, that the european parliament is taking a more comprehensive position on climate policy, also with this statement. when we talk about climate change, we often focus too much on reducing co2 emissions, when we should be focusing on much broader issues. europe and other continents must also strive to reduce other greenhouse gas emissions in addition to carbon dioxide. we have very good examples in history of successful climate agreements, such as the montreal protocol, which prevented large-scale ozone depletion and at the same time significantly reduced greenhouse gas emissions. the limitation of harmful refrigerants has been very effective, but there is still a great deal to be done in europe too. for example, an hfc refrigerant that is more ozone-friendly is not climate-friendly. furthermore, for example, the demand for refrigeration and air conditioning equipment will continue to grow quite strongly in the future, as the rising living standards and economic growth in china and india will also affect the demand for refrigeration. people are buying more and more refrigerators and air conditioners, so we in europe must also invest more in the development of climate-friendly refrigeration equipment. it must be remembered that energy efficiency, and in the case of refrigerators, food safety, must also be strictly adhered to. the food cold chain must function in order to continue to guarantee safe food for consumers. i hope that the commission will take these aspects into account when it reforms these regulations.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as i happen to be from finland, it might be useful to say a few words about the mood at home, as it has affected the debate from a european perspective. as many of you know, finland has asked for security in order to participate in the greek aid package, which is both economically and politically difficult. i want to say right now that i personally have not supported the government's demand for these guarantees, because i think it is unreasonable in relation to what other euro countries are doing. at the same time, it may be helpful to consider the reasons for this. what is really at issue is the lack of confidence in the measures that we have taken together, in particular the council and the commission, to resolve the crisis. these shortcomings in confidence are not only in the finnish parliament but also among the people in general, and this is something we must address. i regret to say that in that respect i share the opinion of the people. unfortunately, as a politician i realise that political will is needed to deal with this crisis, but as an economist i have to say that the measures taken so far to save greece, among other things, are unfortunately completely inadequate. last but not least, i would like to say that in this debate it is easy to hold germany, finland and other countries accountable for our inability to deal with the crisis. it is true that the eurosceptic mood is troublesome, but we must not forget that this is not the problem at the root, but that some euro countries have been living beyond their means for years. let us not forget that this is the basic problem!
mr president, the celebrations always emphasise the openness of the eu's activities. unfortunately, everyday life is often different. the eu's regulation on the transparency of documents sets strict deadlines for the handling of documents. it is puzzling that even the commission does not respect these deadlines, as is shown, for example, by the so-called porsche case. in many cases, delays have led to the ecj taking up the case, and then, after receiving a response from the commission, the case has been dropped, but it has paid off and it has taken a lot of effort. the eu's transparency regulation is being amended, unfortunately this commission proposal is going in the opposite direction. i hope that transparency will be increased, because it is an important part of democracy.
mr president, commissioner, and representative of the council, as many colleagues here have already said, it is not yet clear what the palestinian representatives intend to present to the un general assembly. however, many eu countries are already seeing the problems that a symbolic unilateral declaration of independence without a peace treaty can easily create. the reality of everyday life is not improving but rather getting worse: more disappointments, more mistrust, more dead ends in negotiations, and at worst, more violence. the only message from the eu in this situation is therefore to support the continuation of the peace negotiations. the eu cannot support a unilateral declaration as it would violate the oslo agreement's own abstention from unilateral declarations. it would also be irresponsible to support a unilateral declaration, given that fatah and hamas have now concluded a preliminary agreement on a unity government, and hamas is indeed a terrorist organisation. after the local elections in the autumn, it is very possible that the palestinian territories will fall to hamas. how could such a development in any way help the peace process?
i think it is very important, mr president, that now that we have voted in favour of the resolution on libya, we remember our responsibility as europeans. the european union is above all a powerful exporter of democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and the rule of law to the world. we must ensure that now that the gaddafi regime is falling, the new regime that takes over in libya can adopt these values, which are based on european values, namely democracy. we have to make sure that power doesn't just shift to a new dictatorship. if we as europeans can promote the values of democracy, then we must also ensure that the various minorities there, both the christian minorities and other minorities, are given their rights. it is very important that we europeans take care to bring our own heritage of values there and that democracy and peace can begin to take hold in the middle east.
i supported the resolution, mr president, but i would like to say that the european union has really succeeded in showing its solidarity and support for the libyan people in their struggle for a free libya. the battle that began in february and has lasted for six long months is soon to be decided. the libyan people now hold the keys to the future of their state, and the entire libyan people must participate in the building of a new libya, in elections and in democratic institutions. it is of paramount importance for the european union to support our southern neighbours in their democratic transition. the european external action service should ensure that arrest warrants issued by the international criminal court and interpol lead to the arrest of persons suspected of having committed crimes. it is essential to bring gaddafi to justice alive for his words and deeds in order to promote national reconciliation and reconstruction.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. the syrian president bashar al-assad has already lost his legitimacy. he is a head of state who has repeatedly used deliberate violence to suppress peaceful demonstrations and has failed to live up to his own public promises to democratize his country. reports of cutting off water, electricity, food, and medicine to silence the citizens have only made his position worse. allegations of crimes against humanity by syrian security forces, including murder, torture, detention, and unlawful detention and disappearance, should be investigated through an independent and transparent judicial process. unfortunately, the suffering of the common man seems to have little meaning in the arena of international politics. the crude truth is that more than 2,600 civilians have already died in syria, and its people need our help and support. the eu's broadening and targeting of sanctions is a welcome way of intervening in the syrian situation.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. it has been sad to see the spread and worsening of famine in east africa. we are talking about the worst food security crisis in africa in 20 years. communicating the urgent need for aid to citizens and delivering aid that has been raised by aid funds often takes a long time, but so too has the international community been far too cautious in its response, as we heard the first warnings of a coming crisis as early as december 2010. global inequalities will increase if the member states of the european union hide behind their own economic crisis and fail to meet their obligations in financing development aid and humanitarian emergency aid. the european union must have the means to provide aid to alleviate the immediate humanitarian crisis, as well as long-term development aid to help countries suffering from hunger get back on their feet.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, belarus repeatedly violates the human rights of its citizens and harasses journalists and the opposition. participants in the protests following the fraudulent presidential elections in december 2010 have been sentenced to several years in prison, including presidential candidates. the arrest and criminal charges against ales bialatski, a well-known human rights activist in belarus, are just one example of the state's harassment of civil society. the belarusian government must understand its international human rights obligations to allow freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. a free and open society is no threat to the state. the european union must not resume political dialogue with belarus until political prisoners have been released and the most basic human rights have been safeguarded.
mr president, this is not the first time that we have discussed the human rights situation in belarus and, i suppose, unfortunately not the last time. the case of ales bialatski is of particular concern and a recent example in the long list of human rights violations in belarus. mr bialatski, the chair of the human rights centre, is a victim of long-standing and grave harassment by the belarusian authorities. i call on the council, the commission and high representative catherine ashton to step up their efforts in condemning human rights violations in belarus, and in supporting human rights defenders in the country also. more importantly, i call on the belarusian authorities to release all political prisoners and respect international human rights standards.
mr president, mr commissioner, i have lost count of the number of times this year alone that we have dealt with the brutal actions of the lukashenko regime in belarus against its own citizens. this time it's ales bialatski, who is the president of the human rights center viasna. his arrest and imprisonment are based, as has been heard here, on the allegation that he tried to hide his assets in a bank account registered in vilnius. in reality, the funds received from these international organisations were intended to finance the activities of the human rights centre viasna, for example by assisting victims of political pressure after the elections. in belarus, the use of funds legally collected by the human rights organisation has in fact been made illegal by the enactment of repressive laws aimed at suppressing the activities of civil society. the eu must continue to apply determined and systematic pressure on the lukashenka administration in belarus.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, according to aid organisations, thousands of people have fled the fighting in sudan's blue nile state to neighbouring ethiopia. the state was the scene of fighting last week between the sudanese army and forces supporting the newly independent south sudanese splm party. the military says there's still fighting in at least one area. according to these estimates, some 20,000 people have arrived in ethiopia so far, fleeing the fighting. they're short of food, water, shelter. the un human rights authorities have called on the sudanese government to immediately cease the airstrikes against civilians, which have continued unabated in south kordofan as well. the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights stated in its august report that attacks on civilians may amount to war crimes or even crimes against humanity. the un has called on the sudanese government to thoroughly interpret and investigate the events in the region. if the government is unable to do so, it must allow an international investigation into what is going on.
mr president, the independence of south sudan, the world's youngest state, from sudan has not brought peace to the border region. the bombing of civilian buildings and civilians, the use of landmines and the denial of access to emergency aid show that sudanese president al-bashir does not really want a lasting solution. however, absolute respect for humanitarian law and human rights is also a state duty in times of armed conflict. the european external action service must therefore make every effort to bring about a ceasefire and demonstrate that only a political solution is a sustainable way to achieve peace in sudan.
mr president, the unlawful arrests, torture, forced labour and the prohibition of the practice of unregistered religions are examples of the cruel regime in eritrea. eritrea has refused to implement the constitution it adopted 14 years ago, which guarantees civil and human rights. in eritrea, the violations of freedom of expression and the thousands of political prisoners are a constant reminder that, unfortunately, there is still a long way to go before universal respect for human rights is achieved. the european union is a community of values based on respect for human rights, and its foreign and trade policies must take account of the human rights situation in the host country. dawit isaak is a swedish and eu citizen and the european union has an obligation to help its citizens. the council of ministers should immediately impose sanctions on eritrea and a travel ban on the president of eritrea, isaias afewerk. in addition, eritrea should be provisionally withdrawn from the cotonou agreement until it fulfils its human rights obligations.
the committee on budgets has been asked to deliver an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? it is easy to agree with the conclusions of this report and the committee on budgets is very positive about the final result, which we are going to vote on tomorrow. i would particularly like to highlight the common strategic framework just mentioned by the commissioner. what is also worth noting from a financing perspective is the possibilities for the future offered by the european investment bank and so-called innovative solutions, which the committee on budgets also sees as a positive opportunity. at the same time, it may be useful to remember that there is a difference between loans and grants, and the discussion of soft loans should be made in a wise way so as not to blur the line between these categories. as far as the 2020 strategy is concerned, we know that we will hardly be able to raise enough research money in the next multiannual financial framework and it is therefore important that the cohesion funds also participate in this work. last but not least, we must also avoid the kind of problems we are currently having with the funding of iter, otherwise we will be in the situation we are in before the 2012 budget.
mr president, it is of course good to invest in science and research, but when allocating resources we must be careful not to become too centralised in the direction of research. this applies both to the content of the study and to the place where the study was conducted. no central european power can decide where innovation is born. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used in a fair and equitable manner. this means that everyone must have the same opportunities and eligibility criteria, but does not necessarily mean that everyone always receives the same amount. innovation policy must not be confused with regional policy, because we should never favour inferior projects at the expense of superior ones, even if statistically different member states receive different amounts of aid. if we really want innovation and nothing else, we must support good ideas and high-quality research, rather than regional or social policies, the geographical distribution of research or the equalization of income disparities between member states. these are also important things, but they are different things and they are just distractions in the real promotion of innovation.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent and important report. when we talk about research and development, we must always remember to consider how we can create jobs and promote european competitiveness. to achieve this, we must be able to better integrate business and industry into research policy. we must also remember that, while it is very important that we invest in cutting-edge research, we must also invest in research that creates practical innovations. if we think about funding, we can support practical innovations that arise at the customer interface, largely also through the structural funds. it is therefore important that in the next financial year and in the coming financial period we should be able to lower the thresholds for financing the framework programmes and the structural funds.
in writing. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gabriele zimmer, for an important and good report. i would like to emphasize the role of women in ensuring food security, because without them - who are often small farmers - food security in the developing countries would be in a much worse state than it is today. there are a number of problems which stand in the way of the development of rural women's services. women are less likely than men to receive education, new technologies and help to develop their livelihoods. women's inheritance and property rights are weaker than men's. women's participation in decision-making at local and national level is limited. although women produce most of the food in developing countries, they own only a fraction of the land. the eu must invest much more in agricultural development, not forgetting equality. agriculture is the largest employer and an effective poverty reduction factor.
in writing. we are in the midst of one of the worst food crises in our history. the number of hungry people is still alarming, owing to increased drought, food price speculation and the loss of biodiversity. this is a crisis that requires immediate action. however, while we are addressing the acute problem, we must also keep in mind the longer-term perspective. another problem that is still not being discussed enough is the exploitation of agricultural land in developing countries. the unregulated exploitation of farmland has contributed to the reduction of sustainable development opportunities, particularly in many african countries. for the eu to contribute to building more sustainable food security in the poorest countries, we need political action that safeguards the right of local workers to work, the production of food sufficient for each country's own needs, the reduction of corruption and the safeguarding of the control of arable land for the country's own citizens, taking into account environmental considerations. we need international standards to strengthen social development. the eu must therefore actively promote a more sustainable land ownership policy, both in its own development cooperation and in multilateral negotiations.
mr president, i have given my support to the report. the proposed agreement will allow palestinian agricultural products, fish and fishery products to enter the eu. however, the aim of the agreement goes much further than commercial interests, as europe benefits very little from trade with palestine. with this agreement we are helping the economic development of the palestinian territories, reducing poverty in the region and thus also contributing to political stability in the region. trade can contribute to the development of economic and social affairs in the palestinian territory, gaza and the west bank. the european union must continue to be a strong actor in foreign policy, especially in relation to its neighbours. trade is our strongest political tool. the european union must always consider its trade policy guidelines as a whole, in the context of european values and democratic principles.
mr president, the eu's readiness to respond to natural disasters is not currently at the level that citizens are allowed to expect. the european parliament has proposed the creation of eu emergency services that would provide emergency assistance within 24 hours of any disaster. coordination and cooperation between member states is needed. this would be precisely the kind of cooperation which would add value to european cooperation. i am waiting for the commission to make a proposal on the implementation of the emergency services, and specifically on a civilian level. this is not a military matter. this is a civilian matter.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. in 2010, 925 million people were hungry. the human right to food must be realized and the responsibility lies with the entire international community. european values are based on universal human rights and equality. it is unacceptable that europe continues to practice protectionism in its trade policy towards developing countries. the agricultural reform should completely remove all barriers to trade with developing countries. the eu and its member states should increase investment in agriculture and rural development in developing countries and allocate sufficient development aid to agriculture. the eu and its member states should prioritise poverty reduction and the achievement of the un millennium development goals. speculation on the market price of food must be dealt with at international level.
in writing. − this report sought to address all the main lines of eu foreign trade policy. this has perhaps been too big a piece to unpack, as the report is quite pro-free trade and not all committees have been consulted equally. european trade policy is a very important subject. for example, emergency trade aid should be supported at a general level, but we lack more detailed guidelines on its use. the european union must consider its trade policy as a whole in the light of european values and democratic principles. what trade policy are we pursuing and with whom? is trade policy a purely economic interest for europe, or do we also use it as an instrument of peace, stability and humanitarian aid? european values are based on universal human rights and equality. it is unacceptable that europe continues to use protectionism as a trade defence tool in its own trade policy. the agricultural reform should completely remove all barriers to trade with developing countries.
mr president, mrs ashton, as many colleagues have already said, the symbolic project of palestinian independence unfortunately does not resolve any of the issues that have been aggravating the conflict in the region for years. before there can be real peace and coexistence, the parties must be able to agree on safe borders, including settlements, water, and religious holy sites. the imbalance in the region and the changes in the near future are very crucial. israel is forced to watch from the sidelines, to expect the best of circumstances, but to fear the worst. the biggest threat in the region is the flight of arab governments into the hands of extremists. it is also a threat in the palestinian territories, because fatah and hamas have signed a preliminary agreement on a unity government, and it is very possible that after the regional elections in the autumn, the palestinian territories will fall to the terrorist organization hamas. the eu's only message in this situation must therefore be that the peace negotiations between the parties must continue. the eu cannot support any unilateral declaration, because that would also be in breach of the oslo agreement, which it has promoted, and the abstention from unilateral declarations contained in it.
mr president, the establishment of a new state must be based on history and international agreements. as we well know, there has never been a palestinian state in that area, but in the 20th century the international community has handed it over to israel three times, first through the balfour declaration and then through the league of nations and the un. i would also like to ask the high representative, lady ashton, whether the european union is a community of values. do we really believe in democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and the rule of law? if this is the case, as i would like to believe, has hamas, which is currently in the palestinian government, accepted the preconditions of the quartet, which includes the eu, for ending terror, recognizing israel and accepting previous agreements? i would also like to ask whether the european union is prepared to join abbas in his idea of creating a kind of palestine free of jews. aren't such statements very anti-semitic? in this respect, europe should stand up for its own values and clearly say that we support democracy and human rights. israel is the only democracy in the middle east.
mr president, civil society and pluralistic political culture is vital to all nation states. therefore i welcome the idea of a civil society facility introduced in the review last may. the concept is not, however, completely clear for me. that is why, vice-president/high representative ashton, i would like to ask you how the civil society facility will be developed, and what is its role within the neighbourhood policy and in relation to the much discussed idea of european endowment for democracy?
mr president, i think mr daul was right when he said that nothing will probably be the same after this crisis as it is now. the debt crisis is likely to change europe's position if it is not addressed in the future. to take one example: europe has so far put pressure on china to implement human rights and the rule of law. now it seems that china is beginning to put pressure on europe to accept, for example, china's market economy position. it may be that in the future china will put pressure on europe to accept lower environmental standards, weaker consumer protection. this is why getting out of the debt crisis is of the utmost importance for europe's future place in the world. that is why all the efforts that the commission, and you, mr barroso, have put forward are very important and admirable.
mr president, europe is in a debt crisis, although in fact europe does have money. it is a crisis of confidence, a crisis of credibility. mr president of the commission, you proposed to amend the treaties. the solution to this crisis is not to create new treaties but to respect existing treaties, existing commitments. the member states must balance their economies and reduce their debt. i am afraid that you, mr president of the commission, are leading the eu from an economic crisis to a crisis of agreements. the eu cannot afford to have new crises now, and this must be managed in a controlled way, in compliance with the existing agreements. mr president, i am also not in favour of eurobonds. they only lead to new crises, they allow member states to continue their reckless borrowing in the future.
first of all, mr president, i am very pleased with the speech by president barroso, who showed clear leadership and referred to the follow-up measures needed to stabilise the market and the future of europe. i am also very pleased that parliament is now in this session adopting the six-pack for its part and that, thanks to parliament's measures, clear steps have been taken towards ensuring a stronger community procedure, stronger accountability, greater transparency and better control in the management of the economy. as we heard from the barroso presidency and also from the previous statements of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, these measures are not enough in themselves. we need further packages for the financial markets and, in addition, further measures for economic stabilisation.
in writing. - the european debt crisis has reminded us of what happens when common rules are not respected. the stability and growth pact, which was drawn up to support the euro, has been ignored with sadness and abandonment. the strain of the hunt is over, style points or no style points, left behind, hopefully learned something from what happened. the package of legislation under discussion is a healthy change of mindset. i am particularly pleased that the council of ministers has adopted the default position on the abolition of penalties for infringements and the qualified majority decision on their abolition. however, financial penalties for mismanagement are not the best possible approach. in principle, they make it more difficult for the infringing country to reach the thresholds, and the backdoors designed to mitigate this effect reduce the likelihood of enforcement of sanctions to the extent that the actual deterrent effect of sanctions is questionable. i therefore consider it a viable option to lose part or all of a member state's voting power in the council in situations where financial sanctions would not be an effective solution. although the goulard report is largely in the right direction, i have to vote against it because it supports the so-called eurobonds. i would like to remind you that the treaty rightly provides that member states are not responsible for or liable for the commitments of one another. the introduction of transnational bonds would be in flagrant contradiction with this clause of the treaty. in the end, each member state must earn the confidence of the market by taking care of its own solvency and by bringing its economy into balance.
in writing. − the current eu stability and growth pact, if respected, would have been quite adequate and would still be adequate. i do not think that the situation will be improved by the development of new rules, since the previous ones were not respected. the six-pack has a sanctioning mechanism to make compliance more attractive in the future. if the punishment is carried out, it will only worsen the situation of the crisis. if it is not carried out, the penalty clause will remain a dead letter. even if these new rules have unprecedented impact, they come too late. the six-pack talks about preventing over-indebtedness at an early stage, but the "prevention" of crisis countries is already years late. the other member states, seeing the examples we have given, understand the threat and will do everything they can to avoid a state bankruptcy, without adding to the eu's powers. the current crisis is not being prevented by these rules, because it is already at its worst. the six-pack is a huge step towards an eu federation. it is a false image that finland would now be able to monitor and direct, for example, greece. in reality, the eu commission is able to monitor finland and other member states. our rights are not increased, but on the contrary, we are given new responsibilities. finland's subordination to the eu is also formalized in economic policy. the worst thing for the people's power is that the commission is concentrating control and new powers. the european parliament, in the processes defined by the six-pack, will have to monitor the situation closely and discuss it with the commission and the council. from now on, the democracy will make its choices clear to the bureaucracy. this is a major victory for bureaucracy over democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in rio, just after the end of the cold war, there were high hopes for a shift towards sustainable development, but the results, for example in terms of climate change and biodiversity protection, have been far too little. ten years later, in johannesburg, the eu brought resource efficiency to the fore. unfortunately, we have not been able to set a good enough example in this respect either. it is now almost 10 years since johannesburg and 20 years since rio, but the commission's new roadmap for a resource-efficient europe still promises consultation as the main focus. it is all the right arguments, all the right general objectives, but still no concrete objectives, let alone legislation. we have to do better than that. yet, we are among the small number of mankind who use the world's resources far beyond their fair share.
i would like to give an explanation of vote on the resolution on palestine, mr president, because it often happens that votes in this house on matters which deeply affect european values are hand-picked. i was not the only one who voted against this resolution, but there were many here who wanted to support democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and the rule of law. we all know that israel is the only democracy in the middle east and that it therefore deserves the broad support of the european union. we should be true to our own values, to our own foundation. in this respect, it is regrettable that the signal that came from here - by a small majority - was in the other direction. in any case, i was glad that there were many who voted with me against this bad resolution and who want to stand with israel and also understand that jerusalem is the undivided capital of israel. we must work with democratic states such as israel and strive to bring democracy to the neighbouring countries of the state of israel. to the countries that don't have a democracy yet.
mr president, the middle east peace process has been moving too slowly, and that is why i supported the resolution. the right of the palestinians to self-determination and to a state of their own is unquestionable, as is, of course, the right of israel to exist within secure borders. president abbas' frustration is understandable, 20 years of peace negotiations is a long, long time. but in international politics, timing is always paramount. but the ability of the eu's foreign policy to speak with one voice seems to be at stake once again, unfortunately. i hope that the european union and its member states will find a common position on the middle east conflict and its peaceful solution. that's what they want us to do. the only way to achieve lasting peace in the region is through genuine political dialogue. the negotiating parties must therefore be brought together to discuss the matter. it is time to look at what will happen after this un process.
i would also like to explain my vote, mr president, because the resolution on palestine was adopted by a show of hands and my own position was not recorded in the minutes. i cannot support this resolution. i cannot support the wording of the resolution, because although it calls on the parties to return to the negotiating table, which is in itself a positive thing, it is already beginning to define the borders of these states and, for example, the status of jerusalem. we must remember that the prerequisite for lasting peace and increased trust between the parties is that the terms of the peace agreement are not dictated from the outside, but are agreed between the parties. the resolution was therefore not a success in these respects. if the eu member states recognise a palestinian state whose construction is not based on a joint agreement between israel and the palestinian authority, this would be a very irresponsible and biased act and would not lead to positive developments in the region.
i accepted the statement with some reservations. it is important that the european union should present a common position and common objectives at the rio conference on the environment for sustainable development. one of the most important objectives would be to ensure equal access to natural resources for present and future generations. this is also a prerequisite for sustainable development and for reducing poverty in the world. for my part, i would like rio to promote sustainable consumption and production and to find solutions to a greener economy and greener energy. in general, actions towards a socially inclusive, healthy, safe and just society should be promoted. a sustainable and environmentally friendly society must also always respect fundamental rights, cultural and religious diversity and ensure the realisation of equality.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution. the un conference on sustainable development can be an important meeting and a guiding light, but only if it can produce concrete results and proposals that are also implemented. it is not enough to make declarations of good faith. i would also like to see the european union and the european representatives, including the ngos, have a common vision and play a constructive role in this meeting. looking back, it may be worth learning from whether you have learned to listen to no one at all, to be alone. it is certainly not going to achieve anything good, but constructive cooperation is also important for the european union.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution because this vote was indeed a vote of conscience. the european union is a community of values, founded on the universal principles of human rights and democracy, both in its existence and in its actions. the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and morocco must respect the rules of international law and human rights. it would be totally unacceptable for the union to enter into trade partnerships without regard for its own fundamental values. since it is not at all clear whether the fisheries partnership agreement benefits the people of western sahara and whether it generally meets their wishes, i think it is absolutely better to ask for a clear legal position on the matter. the european union and the european external action service must support a peaceful solution to the conflict in western sahara. it must be found on the basis of un resolutions, in agreement with the people of western sahara and the international community.
in writing. − the rio+20 resolution we have just voted on is an important part of the eu's common position ahead of the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio in june 2012. it is regrettable, however, that many of us were tempted to involve ourselves in the preparation of the resolution on matters which are part of the eu's internal policy and on which there is no common eu position. perhaps the most striking example of this was article 46, which reminds people of the dangers of nuclear power, citing the fukushima nuclear accident in march as an example. there is nothing wrong with that in itself. you have to face the facts. the text, however, continued to call for the phasing out of existing nuclear power stations and to oppose the construction of new nuclear power stations worldwide. such statements would seriously undermine the credibility of the european parliament. fortunately, parliament did not approve such a total ban, and i thank my colleagues for that. i would like to stress that, although the fukushima accident was very regrettable, the technology and knowledge of nuclear power as we know it today will continue to be of invaluable help in the fight against climate change. if nuclear power were to be banned altogether now, in a hurry and with a bang, the consequences of fossil fuels would increase explosively because there is not yet a credible fossil-free form of energy available to compete with nuclear power. the actual death toll from the fukushima accident will only be known years from now, when calculations are made of how the increase in fossil fuels as a result of the urgent abandonment of nuclear power has affected, among other things, the increase in air pollution and deaths from fine particles.
mr president, mr daul, it is always interesting to listen to your speeches. they are european, the speeches of a man of honor. you said anything was possible in europe. i would like to ask you if it is possible for you to convince your greek brother party of the depth of this crisis so that your brother party in greece does not make these problems worse but supports the reforms which are necessary at the moment. what have you done to deserve it?
mr president, i am from finland. as we know, the opposition of some member states has postponed the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen for the time being. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is common knowledge that both bulgaria and romania have problems with corruption, organised crime and the judiciary. however, the core of the problem may lie in the fact that bulgaria and romania were not fully ready for the eu when they joined. many political reforms have been stalled and the eu is notoriously lacking in the means to get its member states in order. i hope that the postponement of schengen membership can also be interpreted positively as an incentive for romania and bulgaria to complete all their reforms.
mr president, free movement is a fundamental value of the eu, based on trust. the situation in bulgaria and romania must therefore be considered as a whole, as the internal security situation of the accepting member state must not be reflected negatively on the other schengen states. the ability of a member state to combat corruption and organised crime and the functioning of national judicial systems are of particular importance in the implementation of the schengen provisions. bulgaria and romania must genuinely meet these requirements before they can be admitted to the schengen area. the cvm report published in the summer noted progress in both countries, but still serious shortcomings. that is why i think the conclusions of finland and the netherlands are clear. we have no technical capacity if we cannot ensure that border guards cannot be bribed. finland has also drawn attention to the vulnerable situation of the roma minority and to the fact that many roma have had to leave their home country to seek asylum or seek refuge elsewhere in europe. in the interests of the security of the free movement area, it is wise to encourage romania and bulgaria to make efforts to join the schengen area. the next review will be in the spring, pending the commission's interim report. the president shall put the question to the president by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8)).
mr president, i have no spies, but instead the international media is reporting on what is happening in romania and bulgaria. i have here the international herald tribune, dated the first days of september, which says that a romanian border guard can make about 5,800 euros in income for himself in the dark by turning his head away at the right moment when someone crosses the border with, for example, various dangerous products. this shows the current state of border control in romania.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, who has done a good job. this is a good report. our shadow rapporteur, who for practical reasons is speaking after me today, will certainly have time to return to the group's view on the whole, but the report is really very good. i would like to take this opportunity to address the question of vat exemptions for non-profit making organisations, which we have already discussed here in the european parliament. the commissioner will remember that some of us were concerned about this when you visited our committee in strasbourg a few months ago. you weren't too keen on the possibility of a vat exemption for non-profit organisations. we in parliament did not think that this was necessarily the best approach, and you may have noticed that a group of colleagues, including myself, have managed to get a good text on this in the present report, and i welcome that. it is a little ironic that during the european year of voluntary service the commission is attacking member states whose tax systems have vat exemptions. i am referring to the infringement procedures which the commission has initiated against, among others, sweden. this is politically unacceptable and i am glad that a very clear and distinct majority in the european parliament also disagreed with this in the present report, which the commission should take note of when it proceeds with these matters. i must say that the report is very good, as i said, and i am glad that it tackles the issue of tax fraud in particular, which is a major problem in many places and something we really need to be able to tackle, in particular to increase tax revenue, which we may need in the current economic situation. last but not least, i think it is worth mentioning that vat is a good example of how europe can coordinate taxation, something we should also do in other tax areas, and in that way it is good that vat cooperation continues at european level.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr casa, for this balanced report, which is parliament's strong statement on the reform of the vat system which has been in the making for a long time. the wide variation in the general tax rates applied in the member states, the variety of vat exemptions and the different thresholds have led to distortions of competition in certain sectors and have hampered the development of a functioning internal market. the system, which has been in place for 17 years, now needs a more thorough overhaul. the reform of the system is particularly important now in the midst of the economic crisis. tax evasion and fraud eat away at the tax base, leaving honest citizens and businesses to pay the necessary taxes for the fraudsters. the report stresses the need for cooperation between the tax administrations of the member states and calls on the commission to develop a coordinated strategy to combat tax fraud. the so-called green vat strategy contained in this report raises a number of questions. i hope that the definitions will be made in such a way that no further problems arise. in future, it should be possible to reduce the administrative burden of vat and to make reporting as easy as possible for smes. it would be desirable that the new system also be able to take better account of the position of labour-intensive sectors such as craft enterprises. vat is easily converted into an additional tax on labour when the final product offers little opportunity to reduce material costs. the member states also have different tax practices for public-benefit and non-profit associations. the report calls for the member states to be able to strengthen civil society by exempting these organisations from vat where appropriate. i hope that this will also be used in the member states.
i voted in favour of this report, mr president, because i believe that vat is very much a european tax. we must remember that flexibility is indeed needed for the member states. it is very important to remember that we are not going to export taxation to the member states, but that each member state should have the right to decide its own tax and economic policy, as an independent state should have, even though we have an open coordination in the common internal market. the particular concern i wish to raise, which is also addressed in this report but which should be emphasized more strongly, concerns voluntary work. voluntary work should not be subject to vat or any other taxation. we need those people who are willing to work in different ngos, non-profits, sports clubs and so on. they are precious and important to us in european civil societies. it is therefore very important to ensure that voluntary work, sports clubs and civic activists are not taxed in any form.
in writing. mr president, the reform of public procurement and the related rules is one of the main tasks of this parliament. public procurement of services, labour and goods accounts for around 17% of eu gdp. so it is a significant sum of money, but it is also a lot more. public procurement is one of the union's main instruments for steering the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. for example, in promoting new types of resource-efficient innovation, public procurement can play a much greater role than it does today. the principle already enshrined in parliament's report is particularly important, namely that the criterion of the lowest price should not be the dominant one, but that we need a much more ambitious criterion combining economic, ecological and social benefits. it is also important to ensure that quality services are also available in areas where there may not always be genuine competition in the market.
madam president, i would like to thank you. when you're out there amongst the citizens, you're going to hear the question more and more: "why are you debating the structures of europe instead of solving the crisis?" i think that we are once again guilty of thinking about our structures rather than thinking about what to do about the problems that exist. i am one of those who believe that the current crisis can be solved with the tools we already have. not so long ago, just a month ago, we approved the legislative package which also includes the european semester. it's easy to focus on what's wrong with it right now, instead of using it to our advantage to actually deal with the financial worries we have. there is certainly a need for a general and open debate, for example here in the european parliament, on the recommendations made by the commission. but at this stage, i do not think it is particularly wise to condemn the system, because we have not really seen any concrete results from it. however, it has also been said very wisely here today, among other things, that the commission has every reason to reconsider its recommendations on growth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so let's think about the fact that we've actually created a lot of new tools that can help us solve the crisis, instead of concentrating on criticizing them.
mr president, this policy period is a very important tool in the overall effort to strengthen the european economy and to anticipate what is going to happen. the only real problem is that the european parliament is being left to the internet. there are some scary things here, too. the commission and the council have emphasized here that there are urgency and logistical problems. i'm sure it is. if we are already on the train, the most important thing for us to get to our destination is that the train is on the right track, not that the train is going fast. if and when these tracks are set in january 2012, how can these tracks be changed if something radical and new happens in the economy so that we do not continue the wrong policy as partly has been done now, that is, has been merely saved?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to return briefly to alternative dispute resolution methods, particularly for consumers. it is good that they are now one of the priorities of the single market package. but the real weakness of the system has been the general ignorance of them. in addition, since consumers are always the weaker party in disputes with traders, they are reluctant to complain about unfair treatment. in general, few consumers are aware that consumers and traders have the opportunity to settle disputes by alternative means without the burden of litigation. can you tell us in advance what concrete measures the commission intends to take to increase consumer awareness in the member states of alternative dispute resolution methods?
mr president, i naturally voted in favour of the report by mr ádám kósa. it is very important that the mobility and participation of disabled people in europe is discussed and that it has its own strategy. we have already agreed in the european union, in directive 2000/78/ec, to have common rules of the game so that disabled people have the same rights as everyone else. the basic principle must be that human rights are all-encompassing. unfortunately, this beautiful principle has not been implemented in all the member states of the european union, and we have various measures through which we discriminate against disabled people. this is the case, for example, in the field of employment. i hope that this strategy will not just be a strategy that will be left on the shelf or in the archives, but that it will also be put into practice and at grassroots level. in this way we are really showing that we are living up to this strategy and that we are treating disabled people as genuine neighbours, granting them all human rights.
mr president, this report by mr bastos on new skills and employment is very important. we know that at the moment europe is facing great difficulties in employing people and great difficulties in the field of education. this should not be the case, as europe was to be the world's leading knowledge-based economy in 2010. but we failed in the lisbon strategy, and now the global economic crisis since 2008 is testing europe too. in the last two years, europe has already lost 5.6 million jobs. and the cycle just seems to go on. at the moment, the unemployment rate of the working population is 9.5%, which means that we have 23 million unemployed in the european union. the aim must be full employment, as the commission and the european union have. the europe 2020 strategy is based on an employment rate of 75% for people aged 20-64. but i think we cannot accept 25 percent unemployment. how can we respond to the fact that the world has changed and that the so-called china phenomenon is very strongly affecting us? we can only respond by training, by investing in innovation, in new research and product development. even in these economically difficult times, there is a need to invest heavily and make financial contributions specifically in innovation, new research and product development. only then can we have a new start and a new rise and provide jobs that can create european added value and thrive in the world market.
mr president, the programme on new skills and employment is also of great importance for the functioning of the internal market. the bastos report contains good proposals, but as we all know, it will unfortunately take years to implement measures such as those aimed at changing the way member states govern themselves. the problems of youth unemployment and youth exclusion do not leave us any time to wait. without adequate measures, these problems will worsen from year to year, gradually transforming active, willing and able-bodied young people into passive and unwilling citizens. in finland, it has been calculated that each one young person who is excluded costs society eur 1.2 million. so, although the amount varies from one member state to another, it is a huge sum. we have to take this seriously.
mr president, the european union is offering 20 weeks of paid maternity leave to the staff of the commission, the council, the european parliament and their political groups. but the member states will not allow, the council will not allow, that this same advantage be offered to all women in the member states. why do you divide the citizens into two groups, the elite and the other who can't afford it? i've heard many times the answer is, "we can't afford this". it would have been interesting to hear, when the commission has spoken of a bank guarantee, that it cannot afford it. when banks are reckless, they let money flow here, and there is money for that, but when it comes to families, equality and children, there is no money. i believe that the european decision-making system is in crisis at the moment and that values are in crisis.
mr president, this directive is a good example of what happens when the european parliament fails to take account of the differences between the national family leave schemes of the eu member states, including their duration, financing methods and compatibility with existing family leave schemes and practical working life. the amendments tabled by the european parliament have completely put a good cause to death. the european parliament's demand for full pay does not take into account, as compensation, national schemes where maternity leave is linked to significantly longer parental leave although not fully paid but where the responsibility for caring can be shared between father and mother. the european parliament's proposal does not promote equal participation of women in work, especially if the mother's employer is to be paid in full. the european parliament itself, in its report, ignored the contribution of the social partners to the development of family leave systems and the fact that in many countries the remuneration for maternity leave is agreed in collective agreements and financed by all the parties. i understand very well that the council wishes to leave to national regulation, for example, the timing of compulsory maternity leave, breastfeeding breaks, various types of additional leave and their substitutability, as well as the fact that paternity leave is not covered by the maternity protection directive at all. the european parliament must understand that the level of regulation should be as close as possible to that of parental leave in order to achieve a coherent whole of national legislation.
mr president, a year ago i voted here for 20 weeks of maternity leave. we must ensure that mothers and children throughout europe can benefit from this relatively short period of time, which is of vital importance for both mother and child. i fully understand that in the current economic climate, projects requiring new funding are challenging. but when europe invests in pregnant women and children, europe is investing in its own future. it's not measured in money. children are the real capital of europe. there will be no life, no europe, without new generations. the labour market must also be developed in a consistent manner so that women are not discriminated against on the grounds of maternity or age. we must work together to change attitudes so that europe becomes a more humane europe for the people. i hope that the council will have the understanding and the courage to move forward with this matter.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, a word of thanks to our rapporteurs who have done a good job so far. however, we are far from finished with these budgetary negotiations and we still have very difficult negotiations with the council ahead of us. in fact, the level of spending we have on the table now is something that the member states do not accept. it means we have to find a common vision. this is also something that i have put forward as the person responsible for the 2012 budget on behalf of the liberals and we would have liked to see a lower level of spending. we have also proposed budget cuts which unfortunately did not pass the vote in the committee on budgets. that is also why we are likely to vote in blank when we vote on the resolution today. the positive thing is that we are moving the focus to what is called europe 2020 where we have greater costs and opportunities to invest in research, development, innovation and so on. this is good, but at the same time we should realize that the economic situation is not such that we can let the budget grow by any amount. we must then be able to set priorities, and unfortunately this is where parliament's weakness lies. we're good at finding new expenses, but we're not nearly as good at finding savings. here we had hoped to have a more constructive discussion about where we could spend less. we have not succeeded in doing so, and this will be a challenge in the negotiations with the council.
mr president, it is clear that in the economically difficult times we are currently experiencing in the european union, with budget deficits and budget deficits in many member states, we need a strict and responsible economic policy here too. in that respect, it is good that the budget is cutting back and that is how it must continue. it builds trust. we must take account of the existing situation and create our own responsible model of action. it is also important to remember that responsible policy also involves looking for new areas of growth. now is the time to invest in the sources of growth: innovation, research, product development and education. it is good to note that this budget is allocating more funds to them, because we need new innovations, new activities in this area if we are to survive the economic recession. two further small remarks: i think that the cut in interpretation services is very worrying for minority languages, and i must personally say that in the third part of amendment no 21 to paragraph 29 by mr balzan and mr fernandez, i unfortunately followed the line of my group and voted in favour, whereas i should have voted against. so i want to make this right. i'm against the green party's proposal.
mr president, transparency in decision-making and administration is one of the basic conditions of democracy. poor and negligent governance is undermining citizens' faith in the european union as a whole. the role of the european ombudsman has proved to be very necessary over the past 16 years. the possibility of appealing against a wrong administrative decision or, for example, against an arrogant or unfair treatment by an official is also preventive and important. unfortunately, the european union has not yet produced a law on good governance, and we must act quickly on this matter. i would like to thank the european ombudsman for the reduction in the time taken to deal with complaints, which is a great deal of work by the ombudsman and his excellent office. i would also like to thank the ombudsman for his efforts to increase transparency in the european union. we have a lot of work to do in this area, and the european union is moving forward like a snail.
mr langen, you were right to speak of the structural crisis, and it has been discussed very much here. we also often talk about the crisis of values. i think it's also a crisis of values because greed has taken too much power. there are greedy investors, ruthless speculators, and unfair credit ratings. so it's also a question of values. do you also consider this a crisis of values?
mr president, the situation of religious minorities has been a matter of concern to the european parliament on several occasions. after the democratic revolution and the departure of the mubarak regime, there was a belief and a hope in egypt that a new era would begin. but attacks on religious minorities have continued. although egypt is in a critical and difficult transition to democracy, human rights violations are not acceptable under any circumstances. all citizens should have the right to express their opinions freely. 25 egyptians were killed and over 300 injured in a peaceful march for no reason. coptic christians are marching to protest the attack on the church. they marched against religious discrimination and demanded a law in the country that would criminalize religious discrimination. these are fully legitimate objectives. the egyptian state must immediately rebuild the church that was attacked and start a real national dialogue, and egypt too has a future.
mr president, it is very important that the european union, which is a community of values, intervenes in this kind of matter and at the same time sends a very clear message to egypt and syria that religious minorities, christian minorities, must be treated properly. it is important that we bring to them the notion of democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and the rule of law. it is still a distant dream, although some already believed that the arab spring would have led to this, but it still seems to be a very distant dream. religious freedom does not mean that people are free from all religion but that people have the right to practice their own religion. as for the copts, they have suffered very severely in egypt and paid a heavy price for their own religious beliefs. similarly, christians in syria are underground because of the reign of terror that is now in place there. this is where the european parliament and the european union have a real role to play in speaking out on behalf of these christians and sending a clear message to both syria and egypt that these people too have the right to a life of dignity, integrity and well-being in their own country and, above all, to freedom of religion.
the european union must support a stable and democratic ukraine which respects the principles of the social market economy and the rule of law, and which respects human rights, protects minorities and guarantees the fundamental rights of all people. such a ukraine does not yet exist today, as the case of tymoshenko clearly shows us. the eu has already made progress in the area of human rights, but it is not yet ready to take action. however, i would like to stress that the association agreement is such an important step on ukraine's european path that it is appropriate to sign it in december. the european commission should closely monitor developments in ukraine and the progress of changes and reforms. ukraine is not in a special position, but must become european, just as the balkan countries which want to join the eu. the will and courage to reform in ukraine are needed, and a genuine national dialogue involving the whole of society is needed.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the fact that several tibetans have set themselves on fire tells us about the desperate situation in that region. the people are protesting against the chinese authorities because the chinese are preventing them from practising their religion. overall, the chinese authorities should change their policy towards the tibetans, so that this is in accordance with human rights. only then can a meaningful dialogue between the chinese and the elected tibetan government emerge and a non-violent solution be reached. i realise that the european union’s power to influence china’s policies is limited. nevertheless, it is crucial that the eu stand firmly behind universal human rights. i urge the high representative to keep this in mind in future meetings with chinese representatives, including in discussions on trade issues.
mr president, in these self-immolations, the love of freedom has taken on a form for which there is no higher price: a single human life. this message is not to be missed. china's tightened state control, and in particular the new laws on religious practice that came into force in 2007, have led to this situation, but china's response to the protests has also been violent and ruthless. for example, a chinese court has sentenced three tibetan monks to prison for the premeditated murder of their friend who committed suicide by burning himself. i'm sure we're all equally appalled by the idea of self-immolation as a way of defending human rights. china has ratified international treaties which should at least guarantee freedom of religion and other basic human rights for all its citizens, but also avoid actions that threaten the tibetan language, culture, religion, heritage and environment. without international support, the tibetan voice is easily silenced.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, the arab spring has also affected bahrain. last year, there was a small riot in the shiite areas. the protests escalated in february 2011 and the wider unrest continued until early june, when the general state of emergency was lifted. however, human rights abuses by the royal family against protesters continue to occur. hundreds of people have been arrested and many trials have been held. for example, in the summer, ten opposition leaders were sentenced to life imprisonment. the sentences have been exceptionally harsh for opposition representatives and other activists. doctors and medical staff have also been persecuted, for example in early september when they were imprisoned and later released under western pressure. we must continue to demand that the decisions of the military courts be annulled and that civil proceedings also be transparent and respect international standards.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the bahraini popular movement started its peaceful demonstrations last february. people’s calls for human rights and democratic reform were, however, violently put down by the bahraini security forces. in the course of these events it became clear that the bahraini security officers were preventing the medical professionals, doctors and nurses from saving the lives of injured demonstrators. the alde group calls on the bahraini authorities to stop all the violations and investigate all human rights violations and to allow the high commissioner for human rights to visit the country. we welcome king hamad’s decision to set up an independent commission to investigation the crackdown and violations. finally, all peaceful demonstrators and activists should be released.
mr president, the pro-democracy protests in the arab world have also spread to bahrain, where the recent arrests of 47 doctors and nurses have been reported. they are accused of inciting and participating in the violent overthrow of the government, when in reality their concrete offenses are the observance of medical ethics and the treatment of wounded protesters. it should be noted that the sunni population of bahrain, which constitutes 30 percent of the population, has ruled the country since the 18th century. no wonder the majority shiite population is protesting against the monarchy for the rights of the oppressed. the harsh sentences handed down to human rights activists without proper justification and the harsh censorship of the internet were signs of anti-reform. the protests have been suppressed by force, as is customary. bahrain should respect international human rights and allow for open dialogue, which could help bring about the necessary social changes. the real impact of the arab spring will be analyzed later.
mr president, the situation in bahrain looks very bleak. the authorities continue to use excessive force against peaceful demonstrators calling for democratic change and reforms. the fact that doctors and health-care workers are sentenced to prison terms of up to 15 years for practicing their profession sounds particularly cruel. these medical professionals treated all those injured in the demonstrations indiscriminately, thus upholding the ethical rules of their profession. such prison sentences must be abolished and medical professionals must be allowed to return to their duties. the conviction of civilians by military courts also does not meet the criteria of a fair trial. all the reports of women and children being detained for false reasons send an alarming signal about the ability of the bahraini state to act in accordance with its international obligations. the will of the people must be heard first and foremost, and the national dialogue must always be genuine.
mr president, commissioner, the arab spring uprising has been met with the most cruel and violent reaction by the syrian government. one example is 66-year-old syrian psychoanalyst rafah nashid, who was arrested on september 10 on charges of attempting to treat traumatized citizens through therapy. the case of nashid shows that the real dictatorship, which syria undoubtedly is, wants to control both the conscious and unconscious world of experience of the subjugated. thus, in the course of his profession, nashid became an enemy of the state. a doctor who helped countless patients during his career and even founded a psychoanalytic school in his city, is now imprisoned in a women's prison in a suburb of damascus on charges of acts that undermine the stability of the nation. we have today adopted a resolution in the european parliament and have raised the general situation in syria, but it is good that we are raising the human case in particular to the world's attention.
mr president, as the s&d group's shadow rapporteur, i too find the report to be relatively good. however, i am still amazed at the indifference with which we in this parliament treat ordinary citizens and especially the most vulnerable consumers. we may say in our holiday leaflets that consumers are at the heart of the single market, but in reality we are focusing more on market forces and economic growth. protecting consumers and improving safety are ambitious eu objectives. the protection of vulnerable groups, such as the elderly and children, is particularly needed. i am glad that the report prohibits misleading advertising to children. advertising to children also affects their friendships and social status, and clothing, toys, and electronics, for example, quickly reveal whether a family has money or not. i doubt that any of us here would want the exclusion of europeans to start in kindergarten. i therefore hope that we can also genuinely communicate to businesses the message of the kind of more united europe we want to bring forward.
mr president, it should be remembered that the purpose of the green paper on electronically mediated gambling is to provide an alternative to the definition of gambling policy by means of court decisions. the court's individual decisions in infringement cases cannot be the answer to future challenges. as this report outlines, the european monetary policy line needs to be clarified, inter alia, by better cooperation between the gambling supervisory authorities. in order to ensure this, it is important that the last sentence in paragraph 22 of the report be deleted because it is contrary to the arguments put forward elsewhere. secondly, gambling is not subject to mutual authorization, but is organised under national legislation which takes account of the specific characteristics of the member states. paragraph 15 of the report states that operators of online gambling must respect national laws and that member states have the right to take the necessary measures to prevent illegal gambling activities. it is important to maintain the right of national member states to decide on their own consumer protection and crime prevention measures. thirdly, the basis of the gambling monopoly is the prevention of social harm and the fight against gambling-related crime. it is therefore of the utmost importance to ensure that gambling activities can be ethically sustainable. it is important that paragraph 44 at the end of the report be retained and that it be dealt with in greater depth.
in writing. reform of eu state aid rules for economic services of general interest is a particularly important task for parliament. such economic services are among the union's most important common values. the general interest social service charges also play an important role in safeguarding fundamental rights and promoting equal opportunities. we must remember that this reform is not just about the economy, but that it is essential to ensure that it supports the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the eu. such economic services include, for example, housing and health care services and transport-related services.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the slight greening of the commission's gatt proposal has been criticised as adding to the bureaucracy. i would say the opposite, the commission proposal is not green enough. and i ask in particular whether the commission, in drawing up the proposal, has taken account of the poor ecological state of the baltic sea and the fact that the baltic sea is the most polluted sea area in the world? the biggest problem in the baltic sea is eutrophication, and the main source of eutrophicated nutrients, nitrogen and phosphorus, is agriculture, agriculture in the eu countries. excess nutrients create huge toxic algal blocks on the sea surface and oxygen-deprived dead zones on the sea floor. this oxygen-free zone on the bottom of the baltic sea is the largest of any sea area in the world. i ask whether the commission is now taking seriously the responsibility it has to save the baltic sea through the development of agriculture.
maybe my question was translated wrongly. i did not say agriculture is the only source of eutrophicating substances in the baltic sea. i said it is the biggest one. it is a sad fact that agriculture in the baltic sea catchment area is by far the biggest source of phosphorous and nitrogen in the baltic sea. these cause eutrophication, which is the biggest environmental problem in the baltic sea. it is of course a fact that there are also other sources, but these other sources, like waste water from cities and industry, have been cleaned up a lot, and agriculture lags far behind these measures. so i repeat my question: will the commission take it seriously that agriculture is the biggest source of eutrophicating substances in the baltic sea? without new measures in agriculture there is no hope of improving the very bad current ecological situation.
mr president, commissioners, first of all i would like to ask commissioner cioloş a question on this milk matter. the cap and the milk package mention the development of contractual relations in the milk sector. do you think this is the only way to develop and improve the future of the dairy sector or what else is yet to come? the second question is for commissioner hahn. for the coming financial period, eur 920 million is earmarked for the nordic sparsely populated and overseas regions. how will this amount be distributed in concrete terms and do you think it will be enough, because if we compare it to this financial period, there is some reduction? how can the future development of these areas be guaranteed?
i would also like to ask commissioner hahn to clarify this regulation on regional cooperation. at present, the various programmes are allowed to choose, or are proposed to choose, four themes from the 11 themes for each programme. what is your view that if they are concentrated around one and the same theme, how will this affect the wider development of these programmes in general and at european level?
mr president, the report on gambling was adopted by an overwhelming majority in committee. i voted in favour of the report today, but i note that the rapporteur changed the main parts of the report, even though he was voting in favour of it. i think this is a little bit weird. as the report states, the commission's green paper is not about reducing regulation or opening up the online money market. the green paper has above all opened up a political dialogue between the various actors and thus offered a welcome alternative to court decisions. the report rightly states that the european policy on gambling needs to be clarified. we must also take all possible measures to combat illegal betting. and the report's main line, strong support for national decision-making, is absolutely vital. gambling is something quite different from ordinary economic activity. it is therefore justified to organise gambling under national legislation which takes account of the specific characteristics of the member states and also of the level of consumer protection.
in writing. - mr president, the market for electronic gambling is growing rapidly. it is estimated that they are now worth over eur 10 billion. uniform minimum standards across europe, for example in relation to customer identification, are necessary to protect players and consumers, to ensure the functioning of anti-gaming systems and to prevent underage gambling. the registration shall be carried out in such a way that the identity of the player is recognised. at the same time, it must be possible to ensure that a player has a maximum of one gaming account per gaming company. problem gambling must be tackled, for example, by means of bans on gambling and compulsory consumption limits, which are set by the customer himself and are linked to a certain period of time. it is also important to tackle gambling-related crime and money laundering. the passive holding of money in gaming accounts should be prohibited.
mr president, karl marx once said that one real step is more important than a dozen programmes. this is a phrase that sometimes comes to mind when we discuss the various programmes of the commission. i am very pleased that the commission has made progress on the financial transaction tax and eurobonds. it may be that future history will see these two things, the ftt and eurobonds, as the factors that are getting their neck kicked by market forces. i very much disagree with what the previous speaker, mr swinburne, said; it is also a question of fairness, because people want, and we all want, that the financial sector also responds to new challenges and that taxation of the financial sector provides new resources to implement measures to promote employment.
in writing. when will we start discussing the need for recovery measures in europe? the only way to respond to the economic crisis is to invest in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and in research and innovation. the commission has already drawn up three comprehensive rescue plans for europe this year, but when will they be implemented? europe, which is in recession, needs active recovery measures to support growth and thereby create jobs. as for crises, in addition to rescue and belt-tightening, these countries also need investment and growth if they are ever to recover. how can we build confidence in the citizens and in the markets when even the heads of state in europe cannot agree on credible and clear measures to solve the crisis? citizens and markets expect leaders to be able to make responsible decisions. however, the actions taken so far lack both leadership and accountability. we need a long-term vision of the kind of europe we want. the integration of economic cooperation into the european union is the only long-term solution. integration is badly under way in economic terms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has already referred to the recent warning by the international energy agency that the window of opportunity to keep climate change below two degrees will close in a few years. when even a conservative body like the iea issues such a serious warning, it should be taken very seriously. all governments must step up their climate action and end, with immediate effect, subsidies to fossil fuels, which the iea says are six times greater than subsidies to renewable energy. one of the key issues in the climate negotiations is the financing of climate action by developing countries. the eu should not regard it as a mere bargaining chip. it is in our interest that the emissions for which this funding is needed actually occur, that is to say, the emission reductions of the developing countries themselves and also the adaptation measures. the eu should increase its international climate finance to €30 billion by the end of the decade. the eu should also do everything it can to get agreement on innovative financing methods. it is also in the interest of developing countries, because the financial transaction tax and the air and sea tax are much more readily available sources of finance.
madam president, if we fail to solve the financial crisis, we are going to end up with mass unemployment and mass economic problems for decades. but we can solve it. if we fail to solve the climate crisis, that is it. we have a gigantic gap that is growing and we have a gigantic task for mankind and we are debating it under the old regime of who does what. what is happening with the transatlantic relations and what are the developing or the developed countries doing? this debate is not going to solve the situation. quite correctly, we need eu leadership and that means we need everybody to be committed to the 2°c target. we need concrete steps on how everybody is going to achieve this and we need everybody to do it. we need to agree about the means, like taxation, about product regulations like the eco-design directive, and about sharing the financial costs. we also need our own commitment: a road map for moving to a competitive, low carbon economy in 2050. this is beneficial for us. the later we do it, the more costly it will be.
in writing. mr president, the estimated error rate for the cohesion policy, energy and transport policy group is 7.7% according to the annual report. the error rate has even increased from the previous year. the error rate indicates the percentage of transactions where the rules on the use of funds have not been complied with. this may be due to breaches of public procurement rules or to the declaration of ineligible or incorrectly calculated costs. the role of the member states is crucial, as they could prevent, detect and correct errors. this is a significant amount of money, as cohesion policy is the second largest item of eu budgetary expenditure after agricultural policy, accounting for over a third of the budget, or around €350 billion in the current structural funds period. the eu must be more sensitive and more determined in its use of sanctions to put an end to abuses and errors. these include suspension of payments, freezing of funds and recovery of funds paid.
in writing. mr president, most of the world's people live in developing countries. developing countries are often rich in natural resources and culture, but their wealth is unevenly distributed. the position of women and children in particular is very weak in developing countries. promoting equality for women is above all a promotion of human rights. men too benefit from a society in which women are equal to men. in families where women are educated and earn an income, a greater share of the funds is spent on the welfare of the children and the whole family. the family of an equal woman is also more educated and healthier. this will accelerate the economic growth of the society. the eu and the acp countries must do much more to promote women's participation, for example in dealing with gender-based violence or trafficking in human beings. the commission and the jpa should therefore include a much larger number of women in working groups dealing with issues such as family life, childcare and education.
mr president, the commission cannot be blamed for your embellishing the situation, on the contrary, you have said directly, both barroso and rehn, that the economic situation in europe has deteriorated dramatically. now it really does seem that, as with all strong drugs, there are side effects, and these drugs have stopped the growth and therefore a new plan is needed. i am glad to hear today that we are about to receive a new plan, a green paper on stability, which will strengthen the firewall and create long-term plans to tame market forces, such as the financial transaction tax and eurobonds. this is a very important matter. it must also be remembered that there is no europe of the people without a social europe. mr bisky, you were right when you said that we also need a feeling that europe is going in the right direction, we need governance, we need action, but also a feeling that europe is going in the right direction. president van rompuy, i have an idea for you. could you please put the earphones on because i tell it in finnish. you say that the european union is an ideological artillery piece. press the member states to give the commission powers to close tax havens, because that would be a very big step towards justice and would reassure the feeling that europe is now on the right track.
mr president, the paliadel report on the european cultural heritage label is very good and should be supported. i think that all of us in this chamber agree that it is important to increase the awareness of people, of citizens, about europe and the history of the european union and about european values and identity. it is particularly important to note that if we want to build european cooperation, it can only be based on our knowledge of the facts and history and therefore our ability to deal with matters better in this historical context. it should also be remembered that this is not in competition with the unesco world heritage label, but is different, more educational and above all geared to young people. it is really about strengthening our knowledge and skills of history, and i do not think there is any fear that history will be rewritten in this respect. on the contrary, there are many national symbols, such as the unicorn that was on the chest of many britons last week. it is good for others to know why such national emblems exist. we learn to know each other's culture, to appreciate each other's culture, each other's history, and in doing so, to build a better community.
in writing. the european union has an important role to play at the durban climate conference. it must show leadership and be able to speak with one voice. the recession or economic crisis gripping europe should not be used as an excuse for inaction on environmental issues of global importance. the danger is that the gap between international commitments and the objectives of the un will continue to widen. while the un target would radically limit global warming, the un reports say that industrialized countries should be able to reduce their emissions by 25 to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020. there is no certainty that the previously set target of 20% emission reductions by 2020 would be sufficient. it is important that durban ensures the continuation of the kyoto climate agreement to reduce carbon dioxide emissions beyond 2012. europe has the potential to show leadership and role model in durban. the kyoto protocol, which is a binding international agreement, should continue to oblige industrialised countries to commit themselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
madam president, as the chair of the parliament’s iran delegation, i am very worried about the reports that have come now saying that iran is maybe considering withdrawing form the npt treaty. as a result of the international atomic energy agency’s report, there have been indications that iran may have a military dimension in its nuclear technology development. on the other hand, iran is saying that it is only for peaceful use. now faced with sanctions, military strikes and so forth, the iranian parliament is putting pressure on the iranian government to withdraw from the npt. countries that have developed nuclear weapons – israel, india, pakistan – have done so outside the npt treaty, and international efforts have not convinced them to return to the npt regime. this has happened without sanctions even, so i think, in the context of the eu-us summit, it is very necessary to define a policy which keeps iran in the npt regime so that there is no risk of proliferation of nuclear weapons. iran may have developed nuclear devices, but probably on a threshold level. if we cannot find a policy, then there will be the problem also of the failure of the npt.
madam president, the united states remains the main foreign partner of the eu. at the same time, the strategic emphasis of the eu is moving from the atlantic to the pacific. it is clear that the eu must also form strong relations with emerging powers. i hope that this can be done without weakening the transatlantic relationship. most of the daily business between the united states and the eu consists of trade and investment. the volume is huge and they are mutually beneficial. it should be our top priority to avoid calls for protectionism in these economically challenging times. i think this is something that we can all agree on. in a multipolar world it is harder and harder to reach agreements on global problems, but if the us and the eu do not stand for human rights and freedom, no one will. in this respect, the top issue should now be north africa where everything should be done to guarantee human rights and the establishment of working and open democracies.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. − madam president, allow me first of all to express my gratitude on behalf of our committee to the rapporteur. he has done a very thorough and good job. i think all of us also appreciate the fact that nuclear safety gets a totally new emphasis in this report, something that is very important after the events in fukushima. we all know, and the commissioner has very rightly just stated, how important the euratom community is, and the activities mainly around iter, are for us, and therefore the report outlines a very good path for the future. the committee on budgets has of course focused on the economic aspects of the activities and here we have some challenges which were also well outlined by the commissioner. of course, we should not endanger one of the largest research projects in the world by internal european quarrelling on the budget; that is very clear. at the same time parliament has wanted to underline the fact that this whole iter project for euratom was not foreseen in this way when this current mmf was agreed upon and this, of course, has affected the situation. we have a challenging proposal before us for iter to be financed through redeployment from fp7, something that parliament has not seen as a good solution. on friday, the committee on budgets and its representatives will continue negotiating on the 2012 budget with the council. these issues will be on the table. i am sure we can find a constructive solution. that, however, also requires the council to understand that financing iter cannot happen at the expense of other important research activities within the framework programme.
i also voted in favour of this resolution, which is of great importance in principle. sustainable peace, human rights and fundamental freedoms can only be guaranteed in the world by promoting justice, the rule of law and impunity. universal justice requires that it be applied equally, without exceptions and without double standards. but the most appalling human rights violations have not disappeared from our midst. genocide, crimes against humanity, extrajudicial executions, war crimes and torture, mass rape and enforced disappearances are occurring in the world. even if these scourges could not be prevented, the existence of the international criminal court is a message that there is no escape for the heads of state, soldiers, or clan leaders who commit crimes. the court is the universal moral guardian.
mr president, those responsible for genocide, war crimes and torture must be brought to justice and held accountable. no nation should grant them asylum. the international criminal court has done important work since 2002. however, it is regrettable that major powers such as china, india, the united states, russia and turkey have not joined this court. it would be important to work hard to ensure that these countries also sign the statute of the court. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the court's decisions are enforced and that witnesses and victims are protected.
mr president, it is very important that we ensure that nuclear power produced in europe and beyond, but of course we in the european parliament are focusing on europe, is safe, and it is very important to ensure that even better systems are developed in the future. at the moment we can say that nuclear power is quite safe compared to many other forms of energy. looking ahead, it is important that we can also get nuclear energy investments in europe, because nuclear power is clean, safe and therefore also climate and user friendly, and so we can really get the cheap and affordable energy we need for industry. it is very important that this research work be continued and that we achieve ever better results also in the field of nuclear safety and nuclear technology in europe.
mr president, we really need work and growth. these are the two things that have united both europe and the united states in recent years. without growth, there is no stability either. the global challenges require joint action and transatlantic cooperation. the european union and the united states remain the two leading economies in the world. these continents are also linked by a common economic crisis. cooperation is always a force, and we should also build together a transatlantic initiative for jobs and growth with a clear plan to promote trade and investment. the eu must also contribute to peace, stability and the development of open democracies. cooperation is needed, particularly in the middle east, and we must support the emerging democracies in north africa. in foreign and human rights policy, we must always avoid double standards.
mr president, i am a strong supporter of the transatlantic relationship. the united states and europe share a common heritage of values, a common foundation of values, and they unite us. democracy, human rights, freedom of opinion, the rule of law - these are the things that we should uphold, and this provides a natural starting point for further strengthening our cooperation on both the front of sustainable economic growth and employment, and thus ensuring that our citizens can also obtain sustainable material and economic prosperity in return for these spiritual values. i cannot agree in all respects with this statement which has now been made by the european parliament to this summit. the fact that paragraph 11 calls on the eu and the united states to seek the resumption of direct negotiations between israel and palestine in accordance with international law is a good thing, but i think we should not set preconditions, as in this case we are trying to set what these negotiations should be, what borders should be drawn, but give the negotiators a chance and support negotiations. in this respect, as in all peace negotiations, we must start from the fact that we respect the negotiators, that we support them, but not from the fact that we in europe dictate the terms, the manner in which the negotiations should be conducted and the results they should produce.
mr president, the protection of civilians is a fundamental principle of the international law of war, and the irresponsible and indiscriminate use of mines makes civilian lives difficult and dangerous, especially after conflicts. the reality of both landmines and grapeshot is that they kill and maim civilians. therefore, a common change of attitude is needed as to what kind of warfare the nations should prepare for. many countries still consider grape bullets to be of paramount importance for security and defence. finland is also joining the ottawa convention, which prohibits the use of antipersonnel mines. in the context of this discussion, the possibility of replacing mines with grape shells was also raised in finland. however, finland will not replace landmines with grape-fed beef, but will look for alternative methods, and this is a positive thing.
i too voted in favour of the resolution, mr president, because georgia is a european state and should have the right to the prospect of eu membership. the preservation of that eu membership perspective is a vital means of contributing to the implementation of reforms in georgia and also of getting all georgians behind those reforms. georgia is one of the most advanced countries in the eastern partnership. however, it still has a long way to go towards genuine democracy, the rule of law and a market economy. the eu is committed to the implementation of the eu's commitments to the region, including the implementation of the eu's commitments to the region. its challenges are judicial reform, workers' rights, women's rights and, in particular, the integration of minorities into society.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, here we are once again discussing the human rights situation and violations in iran. this seems to be a never-ending, or at least a recurring, theme of our urgency debates. the people of iran deserve human rights, democracy and freedom. however, human rights activists and civil rights activist are being detained, judicial processes fall far short of eu and european standards, women’s rights are not respected, and the principle of freedom of expression is violated on a daily basis. i am particularly appalled by the fact that, to date, 42 lawyers have been arrested and prosecuted for their attempts to provide legal help to political prisoners and activists. the arab spring has shown that people’s striving for human rights and true freedom is deeply rooted. those rights should not be compromised. eventually, the iranian people will, i am sure, raise their voice for the human and civil rights they deserve. in the meantime the eu shall – and should – keep the question high on its agenda.
mr president, the list of human rights in iran is very long. the authorities have targeted civil activists, political activists, journalists, artists, lawyers, and environmentalists. at the same time, women's rights, freedom of assembly and the rights of religious and ethnic minorities are routinely trampled on in iran. the number of people sentenced to death in iran continues to rise, even children, women and young people are known to be executed in an inhumane manner. those who have been sentenced to long prison terms have been subjected to inhuman conditions, even torture. the trials have not been independent. the arrogant attitude of iran towards its international human rights obligations must be condemned in the strongest terms. respect for religious freedom, the prohibition of torture, the rights of minorities and other universal human rights is the only sustainable basis for social balance. iran is playing a dangerous game, because the people have a limit to their tolerance.
the author. - mr president, the european parliament wishes to support the egyptian people's steps towards democracy and human rights and the development of the rule of law. it is therefore particularly important that the international community, during this so-called transitional period, should have a complete zero tolerance for violations of human and fundamental rights. in this resolution we wish to appeal in particular on behalf of alaa abd el-fatah, a blogger detained by the military administration, whose case, like many others, has been dealt with by a military court. that chain of events, which began with a peaceful demonstration in maspero for religious freedom for coptic christians, led to military intervention, the killing of 25 christians and the wounding of hundreds, and the court-martial of abd el-fatah. the first is that civil law should be applied to all civil cases and the second is that prisoners of conscience should be released immediately. we call on the current egyptian government to respect the fundamental rights of all.
mr president, at the beginning of october, 25 people were killed in cairo as a result of the military response to a peaceful protest by coptic christians. the incident is a sad example among many similar ones which we have also brought to light here earlier. in egypt, 12,000 people have already been sentenced this year in military courts instead of civilian courts. the controversial arrest and imprisonment of prominent egyptian blogger abd el-fatah has made headlines in recent days. his decision to remain silent before a military court is courageous, but his only request is for an independent and fair trial before a civilian court. this should be a basic right of every citizen. the international attention is timely, to say the least. egypt is in a period of democratic transition. social media has played a big role in the arab spring events, including in egypt, where the upcoming elections will show the direction of what is to come. the eu has a duty to reiterate its commitment to the defence of democracy, freedom of religion and expression and to support all egyptians who are fighting for legitimate democratic aspirations.
mr president, the role of social media in the events of the arab spring has been very important. social media has enabled the reporting of events and the dissemination of information about the democratic demands of the people. for example, we would not have information about what is happening in syria without the courageous individuals who are putting their lives at risk to inform the outside world about what is happening in that country. egypt is at a crucial stage in its transition to democracy. in this process, it faces great challenges and difficulties. while blogger michael nabil sanad is still in prison, blogger abd el-fatah is now facing the teeth of the military prosecutor. no blogger or civil activist who exercises freedom of expression should be harassed or imprisoned by the authorities. freedom of expression is one of the fundamental pillars of a democratic society and no one should be punished for exercising it. the european union must therefore be consistent, we must be ready to help the egyptian people who are seeking their democratic future by peaceful means.
in writing. mr president, citizens are losing faith in the ability of eu leaders to solve the economic crisis. the unemployment rate in the euro area is at an all-time high. according to eurostat, the eu's statistical agency, the unemployment rate was 10.3% in october. the fear is that unemployment will continue to rise in the near future. the worsening situation is a matter of grave concern. the eu is once again preparing for the so-called crucial summit. the number of meetings that have been held in the last year has been innumerable, and they have been crucial to the eu's economic crisis. it is important to try to save the euro and the eu. but we can't let this happen at the expense of everything else. our society is currently experiencing a rapid increase in inequality. the citizens are increasingly divided into winners and losers. the rich get richer. the poor are getting poorer. the question is, where is the famous social europe? or rather, where has it gone? it is time for eu leaders to roll up their sleeves. we must take real action to make europe more socially just.
the committee on culture and education has drawn up an opinion. - mr president, commissioner, a few thoughts on behalf of the committee on education and culture on the european semester of economic policy. i believe and hope that all of us in this chamber and in the european parliament share the common understanding that when we look at the foundation of the future of the european union, it rests very much on education, that is to say, the level of education of the population depends on what level of education we have. unfortunately, when we look at the european union, there is a gap between the level of education and the level of teaching. we must try to encourage member states to act through open coordination so that we can raise the level of european education throughout. it is also very important, now that we are living in such an economic recession, to ensure that we allocate the money in economic policy correctly to education, basic research, product development and innovation, because this is the key to us being able to generate new growth. and it is precisely when we talk about growth that we need to create sustainable growth, sustainable competitiveness, and i believe that this rests on strong education. i would have liked the commission to have included the 10 priority areas in the programme for this training in its annual growth report. i know that it is in the eu 2020 project and that is why it is very important to ensure that education remains strongly included in future european programmes.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is a difficult week, with the european economy and monetary cooperation at stake. at the same time, it is important to look ahead and also note that a lot of measures have already been taken to prevent future crises. the european semester is therefore an extremely important tool. it is already clear that the legislative package we managed to agree in september will have an incredibly important impact in the future. both i and my group are also pleased that our excellent commissioner will actually use the tools that have been given to the commission to address the financial concerns we have at the moment. it is necessary both to prevent future crises and to build confidence in the measures we are taking at european level. in the discussions in the european parliament it is clear that we tend to get stuck in institutional discussions. some colleagues have previously discussed the idea of the committee on economic and monetary affairs having a subcommittee on the countries belonging to the euro area. i am not convinced that this would be necessary, and most of my group share this view. i think it is unnecessary to devote a lot of energy to this right now, when we should instead be devoting energy to solving the actual crisis. there are also those who have called for parliament to have a greater role in the annual growth report. i personally do not think it is worthwhile at the present time to devote energy to discussing the codecision procedure, because that is not the problem at the moment. the financial problems are elsewhere. i am very pleased that we have the european semester - it will play an important role in the future.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the members who have contributed to the drafting of this resolution. our common goal is to reduce hiv infections. the statistics don't support that this is happening. the eu countries have tens of thousands of new cases a year, and when the neighbouring countries are included, the number of new cases per year is over 100,000. however, this is a disease that is completely preventable, and we know how to prevent it. the main reason why all that could be done to prevent new hiv infections is not being done is hypocrisy. a few years ago, i was in south africa, and i happened to see a television commercial where nelson mandela said, "because we love our children, we talk to them about sex". mandela, of course, was referring to the fact that in order for young people and people in general to protect themselves from hiv infection, they need to know about sex and they need to know, among other things, that a condom protects against sex. my experience in finland is that sex education in schools and generally open discussion about sex and comprehensive sexual and reproductive health services are effective ways to reduce all sexual behaviour problems from abortion to stds, including hiv infections. that is why sexual and reproductive health services are of key importance. many colleagues have already referred to the position of women. statistics show that 45 percent of new infections are young women under the age of 25. this clearly shows that there is also a gender issue, whether women have the knowledge and the courage to demand the use of condoms in their sexual relationships. testing is, of course, an important part of preventing new infections, because people who don't know they're infected are more than three times more likely to spread the infection. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter, and that the council should be consulted on the matter. i would hope that we could not only set general objectives but also very concrete ones, as unaids has done.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. let me first congratulate and thank our two rapporteurs on behalf of the alde group and also thank the council and the commission for the good cooperation. our group will also support the agreement we are voting on today. this is a positive development, given that when we voted on our negotiating mandate earlier this autumn, we voted in the blank because we felt that we were trying to raise the budget too much. in the current economic situation, a budget growth of 5% would simply not be justified. now the budget is growing by barely two per cent, which is an appropriate figure in the economic situation we are living in at the moment. the positive thing is that we have actually managed to shift the expenditure towards those initiatives which are geared to the future, namely those already mentioned by mr färm, namely research and development, lifelong learning and so on. at the same time, in foreign relations we can also rely on what has happened in north africa, the so-called arab spring. this requires europe's attention not only in terms of policy but also in terms of money. all this is good and it is why we can actually vote for this budget today with pleasure. what is worrying about the future, however, is the fact that, as already mentioned, there are those in the council who believe that there is no need to live up to the agreements that have been made. but it's about paying for what you've already agreed to. this is something we can't repeat. last year we came close to reaching no agreement on the budget. this year we reached an agreement, and i think it was necessary in this economic situation. because of the mood in the council, there may be a lot of disapproval in the future, and therefore there is reason for some countries in the council to think about what has been agreed, in order to avoid future budgetary crises in the eu, which we absolutely do not need with all these other economic problems.
mr president, i supported the motion, but croatia must maintain its reform drive. the whole of society must be involved in the reform process. eu membership is only possible with the support and commitment of the citizens. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. in the economic field, croatia should continue structural reforms, improve employment, revitalize the labour market and strengthen the state economy to improve competitiveness, including those eu member states in recession. we welcome croatia to the union for peace, prosperity and prosperity. it would be a dangerous double standard to prevent serbia's eu membership bids from being made this december. serbia, which is steadily re-establishing its european identity, is the regional attraction in the western balkans, and macedonia is also being treated unfairly as a result of the political name dispute.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. the internal market has proved to bring a wide range of benefits over the last 20 years. despite the edu, unfortunately many citizens and businesses still feel alienated from the single market. in the current economic and confidence crisis, one of the main tasks of all of us in parliament is to convince citizens and businesses alike of the benefits of the single market. we should also find common will among the various member states to put into practice the measures already agreed. the single market remains one of the eu's greatest achievements and - dare i say - perhaps the most significant and influential factor for the future of the eu.
in writing. - mr president, i have just voted in favour of the report on reducing school drop-outs. it is a very topical subject. as a result of the economic crisis, we are in ever greater danger of a widening gap between the well-off and the less well-off. lack of education is often linked to poverty and social exclusion, with the danger of a continuous cycle from one generation to the next. the situation is worst in families where unemployment has been passed on to children from parents to children for three generations rather than to occupations. such families are already found in many european countries. one way of preventing exclusion is to invest in education and to prevent early school leaving, and that is why i warmly support this report.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the motion. the association agreement is a consistent and at the same time very important step in relations between the european union and ukraine. this agreement commits ukraine to implement a large part of the union's rules. ukraine is a country of strategic importance because of its size and location. ukraine's convergence towards europe is important for security, stability and prosperity in europe as a whole. the new generation of civil society is educated and has not experienced the soviet era. the new generation is strongly european. this will enable ukraine to modernise. however, recent reports on the weakening of freedom of the media and civil society, shortcomings in electoral arrangements and breaches of the rule of law should be taken seriously. as a european country, ukraine is welcome to join the eu, provided it meets all the membership criteria first. the eu must also be honest and consistent: europe must therefore keep its promises.
rapporteur. − mr president, i will take the opportunity to present both issues at the same time – as you proposed. allow me to start with the resolution that my dear colleague carmen fraga estévez and i have drafted together. it concerns a resolution on the current arrangement with morocco, something that has been debated several times in this house especially over the past year. i am happy that we have come to a point in time where we have been able to agree among many groups on the content of this resolution. i know there are some alternative resolutions, but the main message remains: that parliament wants to see a better agreement with morocco in the future, and i am happy that, together, we have been able to identify that the current arrangements with morocco are desirable. however, they need to be economically and ecologically far more sustainable than they are today. so i am happy with the resolution. i am sure that there will be a broad majority in support of the resolution. my colleague carmen fraga estévez will probably get back on this. concerning my report on the same issue: we have been dealing with this topic in the committee on fisheries for a long period of time and – in light of the resolution, which clearly states that the current arrangements are not very good – i would like to explain why we need to vote against this report. when i say ‘against’, i think it is important to note at this point in time that my initial recommendation for the committee on fisheries was not to consent to this agreement. the reasons are very well outlined in the brief resolution. a fisheries partnership agreement – and i say a ‘partnership’ agreement – should be viewed as a fisheries ‘partnership’ agreement, something which benefits both parties. unfortunately, as we can see from the very good ex-post evaluation report, we have an agreement in front of us that is economically far from sustainable. the evaluation report states very clearly that, of all the fisheries partnership agreements, this places the heaviest burden on european taxpayers. practically speaking, the return on the agreement is negative. many agreements have a positive return with about a 40% positive return, while this one has a negative return with only 65 cents return on every euro invested. this is a very bad deal for european taxpayers. on top of this, of course, there are the ecological aspects and i actually find them far more troubling. the basic principle of fisheries partnership agreements is that we fish the surplus; in other words fish which is there to be fished and not over-fished. therefore it is disturbing to note that out of the eleven fish stocks covered by the agreement – we have only been able to assess nine of the eleven as two of them lack data – nine fish stocks are over-fished. in other words, we are not fishing the surplus; we are fishing more than the surplus, which is ecologically unsustainable and goes against the basic principle behind these eu agreements which we have laid out in the common fisheries policy. this is also a reason why we need change. with these things explained, i think it is quite clear that we need to pass the resolution to show our commissioner – who is sitting right there – that she has our backing for a new agreement, but at the same time a better agreement which takes into account all the problems outlined in the ex-post evaluation report. i also want to take the opportunity to say that from parliament’s point of view, working on this dossier has not been the easiest because of timing and because of the new arrangement where parliament is obliged to consent to these agreements. this is an arrangement which came with the lisbon treaty; it is both an obligation and a responsibility for us as members of this house to actually examine these agreements. in light of what i have done and in light of what the two committees who took the opportunity to give an opinion on this agreement have done, it is clear that we should not accept the current arrangements. that is why we should vote ‘no’. i can tell you that the committee on development and the committee on budgets both gave opinions on my report; both recommended for us not to consent to the current arrangements. i think that is a very strong signal from both the committee on development and the committee on budgets. in the committee on fisheries we had a very tight vote which ended up in favour of the report, and i am sure we will have a tight vote also on wednesday when we vote on the actual issue. but i urge all colleagues to take the responsibility which the lisbon treaty gives us, and examine the current arrangements very thoroughly and at the same time note the fact that we are calling for a future agreement with the moroccans. this should not be seen as a hostile move towards our partners; it should rather be seen as us taking ourselves seriously on a very important issue. finally, i would like to thank all my colleagues for their good cooperation on this issue. i am aware that all of us do not share the same approach, but i want to thank colleagues for a constructive dialogue so far and i am sure we can handle this issue in a constructive manner despite certain differences. i will end my speech here.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to thank my colleagues for a constructive debate. let me say to the commissioner that i am very happy, and i think all of us are very happy, that you are striving to have a good agreement in the future. there is no doubt, based on the debate, that this is something that we all want. i cannot, however, at all agree with the conclusion that we need to vote in favour of a terrible agreement that almost everyone seems to think is bad, just to give you a good agreement in the future. that reasoning does not work. our responsibility, according to the lisbon treaty, is to take a stance on the current protocol. we are not voting on a future protocol now; we are voting on the current protocol and the current protocol is bad. i will vote in favour of a good protocol next year if you deliver one. i promise. there has been mention that this protocol delivers eu jobs. let me tell you that every eu job created by this protocol is subsidised by eur 45 000. is that good economic policy and good spending of taxpayers’ money? no. let me also tell you that only 15% of the sectoral support from morocco has been used. fifteen per cent, which means that 85% was unused. keep that in mind. i am very happy about the debate, which focuses on the future. i also want to do that. our partnership with morocco is important; we have the neighbourhood policy through which it has been concluded. i think everyone has stated very clearly – despite a few voices – that they want a good agreement in the future. that is what i have been telling the moroccans all the time. i am happy the commissioner is saying that. let us focus on that. but, before that, we need to take a clear stance, live up to our responsibilities and vote on my report – which is not on a future protocol, it is on the current protocol. concerning the western sahara, i am happy that the commissioner is looking for different arrangements, because it is clear that there are so many colleagues in this house that find the current arrangements very problematic. let me also say that there are many countries in the council who are critical: the austrians, the swedes, and lately the bundestag, the dutch, the finns, the cypriots, etc. are critical. so we also have a very tough debate with the council, which is not unanimous on this. i am looking forward to a ‘no’ vote on wednesday.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to start out by thanking our excellent rapporteur, who has worked persistently on this complicated dossier. the outcome is as good as it can be at this stage. let me say very clearly also, in the light of what has been said already concerning some voices within the council, that, if there are those in the council who find this agreement reached in the trialogue some weeks back unsatisfactory, there are also many in parliament who find this solution very unsatisfactory. i am one of those who feel that this is the best solution that could be found, but it does not make the outcome in any way satisfactory, because we are still going to start redeploying money from heading 1a, and mainly from the framework programme for research to the iter project. this is something that parliament has stated very clearly is not its desire, both in its report on the iter issue itself, only two part-sessions ago, and also in the committee on budgets, in my opinion on the euratom treaty, which addressed the issue. so this should be taken into account by the council. a compromise is a compromise and this is a fair deal reached in a difficult economic situation. the polish presidency has done a good job, together with our rapporteur and others, in negotiating to find an agreement that is reasonable. we should stick to it. there are no other options. if this deal does not hold, then we are going to have a very hard time finding a deal that will be feasible. also, in the light of the fact that the framework programme for research is a programme that is implemented to almost 100%, with huge requests for funding under heading 1a, and this is also the sector of the budget that is actually driving growth in europe, we should use all the money available under heading la for the initial priorities foreseen in the initial mff, where iter was not foreseen. this is why we cannot redeploy more than this deal foresees and why we should stick to it.
the question of the blue card. mr president, mr rangel was pleased with the preparation of this meeting, which i am not pleased with because it was not done within the framework of the structures. i think mr rangel was pleased that this meeting was being prepared at a rather spectacular epp meeting in marseilles. but the rest of us, we only know the conclusions. for example, i have been told that the council also discussed matters relating to working life. but none of us knows whether it has been dealt with or not, and those are very substantive questions. i ask mr ragnell, do you know what else was discussed at the summit, apart from what is in the conclusions?
in writing. the political outcome of the december eu summit is close to zero in terms of tackling the current crisis. the acute economic issues were simply not discussed. there was no talk of growth, no talk of jobs, no talk of reversing the recession. it was mostly about budgetary discipline. the summit set the course for closer economic cooperation in the form of budgetary discipline, albeit outside the eu's structures. this is a blow to the european democracy which is guaranteed by the cooperation of the european parliament and the national parliaments. i fear that in addition to the debt and economic crises, the eu summit also allowed time for a crisis of democracy, as the economic union is being set up outside the eu structures without democratic controls. i think that the removal of investor liability, like the greek debt restructuring package, is a bowing to market forces at the expense of ordinary taxpayers, who are not even responsible for the current crisis. as far as finland is concerned, i would say that the letter of the constitution must be respected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the eu summit also decided on eu enlargement. croatia will become the 28th member of the eu in july 2013. the granting of eu candidate status to serbia was blocked by germany. the eu's enlargement policy as a whole is the most influential form of external policy and the enlargement process is a positive impetus for europe as a whole. serbia is the key player in the entire western balkan region, both in terms of economic and political stability. i hope that germany is not trying to stifle the european flame in serbia by opposing it.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, many european countries have indeed cut defence spending because of the euro crisis, including my own country, finland. this is very disturbing. the primary function of the state is to ensure the freedom and security of its citizens. no other mission can take precedence over this. it is simply immoral to cut funding for this most important task at the same time as billions are being poured into useless aid packages in the name of a fruitless bail-out policy. the cuts in defence spending will also reduce europe's still small role in world politics, where even this year, in the form of the arab spring, we have seen that the need for military power is still urgent in our immediate neighbourhood. cooperation in defence is generally a good thing, but both member states and the eu institutions need to be constantly reminded that cooperation cannot replace national efforts, but only complement them.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i think the commissioner explained very well why we need this macroeconomic surveillance. the economic crisis proved that macroeconomic imbalances can also put the european economy at stake, despite sound – or at least fairly sound – public finances. i also think that we did a fairly thorough job in this house of working on the macroeconomic surveillance part. in my view we achieved a very good overall result, and this is now the practical implementation of that result. personally i am convinced by the work done by the commission (my group is also very supportive) and the initial proposal on the table. i think it is important to note that this is just the starting point of macroeconomic surveillance. some have wanted to give this scoreboard too large a role in the overall process. we should remember that the scoreboard is designed as an alert mechanism. the actual macroeconomic surveillance and assessment will be done through in-depth studies, where we will then assess whether there is a problem that has to be addressed. another issue that should be mentioned is the fact that the ownership of this process should not be in the commission. i have no doubt that the commission wants to own it, but the fact of the matter is that the ownership should and will be in the member states. the member states will be the ones who have the ownership of working with a possible macroeconomic imbalance, together of course with the good guidance and good advice of the commission. but the ownership of the process will and should be in the member states. that is the only way for this process to work, and this is something we should emphasise. finally, i think we should all be happy with the fact that the ‘six-pack’ legislation, which this was a part of, came into force this week. this is an important step in solving the crisis. we should all be happy about this and about the fact that the commission is taking this work very seriously.
rapporteur. − mr president, because of this somewhat unusual voting procedure concerning consent reports, i have been urged to clarify the voting procedure. it is as follows. voting in favour of the report means giving consent to the extension of the protocol, while voting against means not giving consent. this is because no amendments could be tabled. in other words, following the committee on budgets or the committee on development would mean voting against, while the committee on fisheries overturned a recommendation and wanted to be in favour. i hope this has clarified it for everyone.
i voted against the report, mr president, because the present agreement is in breach of international law, the human rights of the sahrawi people and the judgment of the international court of justice. at the same time, the agreement violates several fundamental principles of the european union. the agreement raises concerns about the sustainable use of fisheries resources. it is questionable whether the agreement will benefit the people of western sahara. furthermore, the contract is economically inefficient. the rejection of the report and the termination of the agreement have a very important symbolic meaning. support for such an agreement would undermine the eu's credibility. the eu must defend both the principles of international law and the sustainable use of fisheries resources worldwide. the european parliament is also responsible for safeguarding the fundamental principles. these are the values you don't want to cross. i hope that the commission will draw up a more economically efficient agreement which takes account of both ecological aspects and the rights of the sahrawi people of western sahara. at the same time, it is important that cooperation between the eu and morocco continues.
mr president, the eu-russia strategic partnership agreement is of great importance for developing and enhancing eu-russia cooperation. the accession of russia to the world trade organisation in december is also a significant event for the whole of europe. it improves economic relations and encourages investment. energy security is one of europe's greatest challenges. we need to work with russia. the eu must speak with one voice when it negotiates with russia. it should be based on mutual interests and shared values. democracy and freedom of expression are european values. the elections to the russian duma, according to observers, did not meet the requirements of democracy. the information that has come to light about the election fraud is extremely worrying. the european union is in a difficult situation, because cooperation with russia in the fields of energy and trade is vital for the whole of europe, but at the same time it is not compatible with european values to distort democracy. this is not something that can be swept under the carpet.
i voted in favour of this report. terrorism and its threat are flagrant crimes against our society. terrorism seeks to undermine our fundamental values, human rights and the principle of democracy. the counter-terrorism strategy shall take into account human rights and the protection of personal data. we are already obliged to do so by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. respect for human rights is in itself an effective counter-terrorism policy. we must not give up our values in the face of terrorism. more attention should be paid to the preventive fight against terrorism, as radicalisation is one of the greatest threats to our society today. racism and exclusion are linked to the emergence of extremist movements. resources should be directed towards increasing tolerance in societies and preventing exclusion. i also call for an open and wide-ranging debate on our common european values, involving the whole of society.
in writing. - mr president, i have just voted against the report by mr haglund, whom i respect, but he and many of my colleagues did the same. the extension of the eu fisheries agreement with morocco would be unsustainable, not only for fish stocks but also for economic and human rights reasons. this conclusion was also reached in the evaluation report prepared by the commission. i understand that some of my colleagues from the mediterranean countries have an economic interest in the fisheries industry, but all the facts are against the agreement. this has also been stated in the opinions of parliament's committee on budgets and the committee on development. the agreement with morocco is the second largest eu agreement in terms of financial volume (eur 36.1 million per year). in its evaluation report the commission stated, among other things, that this agreement is the worst of all eu trade agreements economically, we get back only about 65 cents of every euro invested. fish stocks are also either overfished or fully fished. the agreement is also in fact contrary to international law because the saharawi people of western sahara do not benefit from the agreement at all, even though it is their territorial waters rather than morocco's, which would not have the rights to exploit natural resources in this way. i would stress, however, that in voting against the report i am not voting against morocco. the eu-morocco cooperation is important in itself and is being properly pursued through the neighbourhood policy. this is more a question of the fisheries agreement and our duty to look at the sustainability of the agreement.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. it is irresponsible for parliament to demand that member states increase their defence budgets at the same time as we demand savings and budgetary discipline. we live in the midst of a severe economic and debt crisis. i also note that the european parliament should not take a position on nato financing or on how much of nato's costs should be paid by the european member countries. the nato countries can take a stand on this in various forums. nato and the eu are two separate organisations.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the treaties, rules of procedure and institutional affairs. - mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr michael cashman, for his excellent cooperation in drafting this report. the last few years have shown us that it is very difficult to move forward with transparency at eu level. the lisbon treaty, which entered into force just over two years ago, emphasised transparency, but unfortunately it has not yet been put into practice. i am particularly sorry that, despite all the commission's words on transparency, the commission has not agreed to present proposals that would have increased transparency, but on the contrary, the one that came out in 2008 would have limited and reduced the level of transparency. i thought it was very unfortunate. in spite of everything, we in parliament have managed to change this commission proposal, and we are not going backwards, but we would like to take a few small steps forward, according to the present committee proposal. it is regrettable that the largest group in the european parliament, the epp, opposes these proposals and opposes greater transparency and voted against the report as a whole. but hopefully tomorrow, when the vote is, that will change. i think it is important that the public be informed. the commissioner šefčovič has already pointed out here that the problem is, for example, the accessibility of the summit documents. i would like to mention another topical issue at this point, namely the transparency of this european stability mechanism: for example, the european court of auditors has no access to its documents or to its audits, which means that it lacks transparency, as in many other matters. it is hoped that small steps will be taken and that in future negotiations transparency and this public approach will be emphasised and that we will reach a consensus.
mr president, with five thousand dead already, how long will the international community stand by and watch people being killed by the syrian state? the european union and its member states deserve a round of applause for once. europe has spoken and acted consistently, imposed and tightened sanctions and acted to bring about un sanctions. the eu and the european parliament have already stated that president bashar al-assad 'must go'. syria is becoming a symbol of double standards and non-intervention in diplomacy and international politics. in high politics, the common man is forgotten and left on his feet. the sakharov prize for freedom of expression was awarded to five activists yesterday in parliament. all of them played a crucial role in the wave of uprisings in the arab spring in north africa. on both sides of the mediterranean, there is support for democracy, freedom and human rights. europe must be involved in supporting the syrian people on their way to freedom, democracy and a life of dignity.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution. there is reason for serious concern about the situation of human rights, democratisation and the rule of law in uzbekistan. there, in particular, child labour is systematically used in the textile industry. the health, working conditions, age and penalties for non-compliance of children and students have not been monitored in any way, as uzbekistan prohibits the entry of foreign inspectors and human rights observers. he was also responsible for the repression of the opposition in the southeast of the country. fortunately, retailers of textile products in europe have now decided to stop buying cotton from uzbekistan. it is a demonstration of the ethics and morality of european business. but this alone is not enough. the european parliament is not expected to approve the trade agreement until the uzbek authorities have allowed the ilo observers to enter the country. furthermore, it is necessary to confirm that the country has implemented reforms and achieved significant results in the total elimination of forced labour and child labour at national, provincial and local levels.
mr president, i have just voted in favour of the report on health and safety at work. in the wake of the economic crisis, member states are looking for new ways to increase labour productivity. one way to increase productivity and extend the working life of workers is to make a genuine contribution to health and safety at work. but we cannot increase productivity and extend working hours without taking into account the human needs of workers. well-being at work and productivity at work always go hand in hand. fortunately, many organizations have already realized that good physical and mental well-being of people saves costs. the number of sick leave days is reduced and the cost of pensions is reduced. so it is also about economic realities. without healthy workers, we have no healthy businesses and no hope of making it in the global marketplace. that is why i wholeheartedly support this report.
in writing. - mr president, i welcome the fact that the european parliament is once again taking a strong stand on the situation in syria and that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. the series of events known as the arab spring has shown that the people of the arab world do not really support a situation where leaders do not have a democratic mandate. the cold war mentality in the west, which tolerated dictators if not popular, if it suited the political aims of one's own camp, was so deeply rooted that the speed of events came as a surprise to westerners accustomed to real-world politics. if muammar gaddafi had succeeded in overthrowing the nascent libyan revolution at its inception, it would have inevitably been followed by widespread and radical reprisals against the civilian population. there is a real danger that the same will happen in syria if external pressure subsides and the current rulers are reinstated. unfortunately, from a historical point of view, economic sanctions have only worked in a handful of cases in modern times, and on a large scale they have generally targeted the population whose interests they are trying to advance. so we must be prepared for the possibility that military intervention is inevitable. turkey has already created a perceived safe zone on its border by its unilateral actions, which has been accepted at least implicitly by the international community. the un security council resolution 1973 that saved the lives of the libyan people was a watershed moment. it was a long period in which europe took a real initiative in world politics. if there is no peaceful solution to the syrian crisis, we must be prepared to see the need for a similar initiative again.
mr president, there are numerous human rights problems in azerbaijan. rafig tagi, an atheist writer who received a fatwa from an iranian religious leader, was murdered for his words and opinions. azerbaijan has notoriously had problems in conducting criminal investigations into human rights violations. another serious problem is the long prison sentences of human rights defenders, opposition activists, bloggers and writers on baseless and completely fabricated charges. azerbaijan will become a rotating member of the un security council in 2012 and 2013. can a country like azerbaijan represent the entire international community in the un security council? consultation of civil society and dialogue with ngos and human rights activists are of paramount importance in a state that respects democracy and human rights. the european union must demand that azerbaijan investigate thoroughly the background to the assassination of taghi and take practical action.
mr president, the state of democracy in azerbaijan is a cause for concern. the most recent concern has been the recent murder of a journalist. rafig tagi criticised both the current iranian government and islamic values in relation to european values. this criticism led to several death threats and murder. it was certainly no coincidence that the murder happened on the international day of impunity. a day when unsolved journalist murders are remembered around the world. right now, there are about 251 unsolved murders of journalists around the world. it is no surprise that no one has been arrested or charged with the murder of rafig taghi either. murder is the ultimate way to limit free speech. it's a matter of life and death to bring up sensitive issues. in some countries this is a systematic practice. what is the significance of international human rights treaties if the signatory country is able to trample human rights freely? finding the killer is important, but even more important is finding and punishing the people who order the murders of journalists.
mr president, the scale of physical and psychological violence and cruelty against women in pakistan and afghanistan is difficult to understand unless we remember that the law is a mixture of secular and islamic law. the irrationality of the outcome is due to interpretations of sharia law. thus, for example, rape is an adultery of a woman, a shame for her male relatives. such an interpretation is a disgrace to islam. it is against life, against humanity, against human justice. however, in both countries, progress is two-fold: a small but growing proportion of women are at the top of society, while in rural areas women live in extreme poverty. for example, it is easier for a woman to start her own design business in the city than to sell vegetables in the countryside. it is true that the position of women has improved in some respects, but it is impossible to achieve lasting change by applying different rules in different regions and to different classes of society. it is now important to focus on women's problems in rural areas too, because improvements in human rights in the light of statistics alone do not correspond to real improvements in human rights.
mr president, the situation of women in pakistan and afghanistan is truly alarming and extremely serious. it is now ten years since the petersberg conference in bonn, when the international community began to build a democratic future for afghanistan. rape, abuse, trafficking of women, forced child marriages and domestic violence are the fate of almost every woman in afghanistan. yet they rarely lead to action by the police or the judiciary. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. women must be able to play an active part in building a democratic, safe and open society. afghanistan cannot ignore women, who make up more than half of the entire population. unfortunately, the situation in pakistan is just as bad.
mr president, the democratic deficit in tunisia remains a cause for concern, as demonstrated by the incident in november in which a young tunisian man tried to use his mobile phone to record the violent treatment of moroccans at the airport by the tunisian authorities. he would have liked to bring to light the poor state of human rights and the violent actions of the authorities in order to promote progress towards a democratic tunisia. however, as a result of the attempts to photograph him, he was also arrested and subjected to similar treatment. after the tunisian revolution at the turn of 2010-2011, tunisia promised to improve human rights. but that has not been the case. the authorities are constantly using unnecessary violence and there is no knowledge of punishment. it would be important to get the new tunisian government to intervene and thus also to change the actions of the authorities. without a commitment to change by the government and the public, it is impossible to create progress towards improving human rights.
